ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of State: "Consolidation of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and amendment of article 48 of the Rules of Procedure. 2190/1920 and other provisions’. Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis has the floor. Here comes Mrs. Kafantaris, Mr. Squarrel, and then Mr. Rizzos. Mr. Emmanuelides, you have the floor for seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, fate has it to speak empty benches. It seems that the colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, in particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u3	A PASOK MP is here. We have a representative from PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u4	I see his phone on the benches.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u5	Keep going. Don't stop the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Emmanuelides, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u6	They attended our President's interview yesterday with great interest. Apparently, they're deciphering it. It is, however, regrettable to start meetings in plenary and to have this picture. Once again I shall turn to the empty benches of the New Democracy and the PASOK. I had said from this Step to a previous position that our differences with New Democracy and PASOK are deeply political. However, I said they were deeper cultural. And by saying 'cultural', I mean that the New Democracy and the PASOK, these political organisations, face the concept of democracy, social justice and ultimately freedom with another view. Ladies and gentlemen, with the June 2013 Act on the closure of the ERT - and based on the dogma "decide and enforce", you did not close the National Broadcasting Foundation, but the window of culture, because the ERT with its infinite vulnerabilities - which your governments created - was the only broadcaster that took a step in the direction of culture. Despite the fact that all previous years you have been dealing with ERT as an area of plundering on the part of power, it has remained a pole of resistance against the cultural levelling that your oldest honest friends, the canals of the systemic media, with whom you tastedly danced the tango of interlocutory. And it came June 11th, the day when throwing the "black" to the ERT, you exceeded your political and social Ruvikon, while it was the day that marked your political Vatterlo. At this point, Mr Vorides, as a representative of the area, I would like you to give us a clear answer to a clear question: if we were to turn the clock of time on 11 June, and you were able to choose between the closure of the ERT or its continuation with the treatment of some of its many pathogens, so if you had this possibility today, what would you do? The question is rhetorical. If we say that we would do the same, then the logical exporting factor is that nothing has been taught, nothing has been exploited by your suicides, criminally for society - your mistakes. Once again, if we accept that remorse is an act completely acceptable, you should be glad to accept that it is doing very well, it is the government's decision to reopen ERT with open eyes to deal with and cure any diseases - I repeat, which you and your co-government have created in all the post-government years. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] What I would like, Minister, to take care of is that the operation of the ERT through this bill is the oxygenation of the operation of the ERT and that we take it all over the ground. I am a Member of the province and I have seen a situation which does not create a prospect of real development for society throughout this period. This hydro-heading of Athens actually chokes any prospect of regional development. There must be provision in this bill, culture, information in the province must be exploited. And that cannot be done by leaving radio stations and radio networks out, I am thinking of the operation of ET3, which really needs to work as an important pole, as a strap in the effort of this acquisition and diffusion of culture throughout the country. I think it is a imperative need, and that is what we need to cure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Emmanulides. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor, and the honourable Members, Mr Skouris, Mr Rizzos, Mr Famelos and Mr Vorides, are following. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot begin by not making a reference to what has happened and is happening in the last few days in Nepal. I would like to express my solidarity with the people of Nepal, where the victims of the earthquake are, on the basis of journalistic information, going beyond the four thousand dead. Indeed, the earthquakes are the world's greatest natural disaster. The European Civil Protection Mechanism has been activated. Greece was one of the first countries to appeal to the European Civil Protection Mechanism for mission and availability to help in the field. However, this has not yet been done for a number of reasons in relation to the failure to communicate from New Delhi to Nepal, despite the friendly efforts made by our Ambassador in New Delhi, so that the EMAS's available staff have not yet departed for substantial help in the country of Nepal. One conclusion I would like to draw from this: The necessity and importance of civil protection emerge once again in the modern conditions, a need which also exists in our country for a substantial upgrading of the mechanism and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. An upgrade, which needs to be reached at least until European standards, which is not happening at the moment. I now come to the question of ERT. The important day is today, ladies and gentlemen, an act of legislation that did not pass through the House when it was issued on 11-6-2013 and put "black" in the ERT. We, as a opposition, had naturally criticised it. Today, however, Opposition and, in particular, our Qualifications are abdicating us for legislative acts. We are, however, bringing them in, as has been done recently in a very short period of time, and we are voting on them. Faithful in our election announcements we have now passed two and a half months a series of laws. So today we have this bill on ERT, which is our obligation to the Greek people and ERT's fireds who have been on the streets for two years and are fighting for self-evident: the constitutional right to work. It may have been two and a half months since the takeover of governance by SYRIZA and ANEL, and this draft law comes today because it is indeed a product of effective consultation with both institutions and, of course, with society. We therefore fulfil our duty by serving democracy and pluralist information. The need for public broadcasting is reflected in the role of information and media in the critical political context that we are currently experiencing. And, unfortunately, the instruments contribute to terrorism, which is, of course, heading to a difficult time for our country and abroad and from within. When information and broadcasting operate on the basis of ethical standards, they are a recreational, educational instrument for the poorer economic strata of the people. They act as means of control and criticism of the leaders, contribute to the prevention of scandals and abuse of power. Even at social level they control and criticise the exploitation of human beings by people, racism and injustice. Finally, citizens who are well informed, when mass media operate properly, become aware of social problems, such as racism, violence, terrorism, illiteracy, human rights circumventing and then striving to resolve them and ensure social well-being. The right and objectively informed and sensitive citizens are fighting for justice and worthy of sovereignty, resisting blind partyism and polarisation, voting responsiblely and fighting for democracy. On the contrary, when the media lacks objectivity or operates for the sake of interests, as they are today, they are negatively affecting, so we have their yellowism. They disorientate public opinion from real problems, distort events, serve political and economic interests, as well as ideological purposes. They cultivate passions and hatreds, fantasize the public with political and ideological propaganda to achieve certain purposes. They're brainwashing with propaganda that's the most suitable means of undermining society. So they manipulate, alienate, manage. They cultivate Scandalology, smash public life figures to serve some purposes. At last, however, we are creating a public information body. No more party briefing. Yes to free and democratic information. The designation of ERT as a public service, as laid down in Article 15 by two criteria, objective and equitable provision of information and news, is also the fundamental nature of that draft law. During the election period as SYRIZA we said we would come for the new one, that we would not bring the country in 2009 to the previous memorial era. So also regarding ERT, ERT will not return to the old regime, partyism, opacity, private channels service through free image and not just. Today those who used ERT together with the previous governments come and denounce ERT supposedly for waste, while over the years they have earned millions of money from covering or from the public service broadcaster's record at the expense of the Greek people who consistently paid for their reward. Ladies and gentlemen, information is not a product. We are not making any impressions about information, nor are we conducting specific policies. Information is a democracy, it is an obligation, it is a duty. We are creating an ERT independent, without manipulation, at the service of the Greek people, with creative workers and not afraid, with collective labour contracts, with merit, workers without privileges, workers who will not be subject to the above interventions, as was done in your own ERT, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, of the ERT in which you dropped the "black" on June 11, 2013 in this fascist way, I would say. We therefore create ERT with pluralism, pluralism, rules of transparency in the management of economic resources for the benefit of Greek society and the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. What you have said about the insurmountable tragedy that hit Nepal's people, expresses the whole House. My colleague, Mr Squarcialupi, has the floor and my colleagues are here. Rizzos, Santorinios, in the place of Mr. Famelos and Mr. Vorides. Here, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, no, the ERT that will reoperate should not carry the pathogens of its past. I think that all the wings and yesterday's procedure have agreed on that. Even those responsible for these diseases agreed and created them when they were ruling alternately at the end together. As long as the time goes away from the "black" that was imposed on the screens of ERT, but also on the institution of public service broadcasting and now having a clear picture of what the natural perpetrators of this - I will say politely - "hat" of democracy, we must stand calmly in terms of relaunching, so that, on the basis of the common sense, we can deliver to the Greek people a public television worthy of its expectations and of its symbols as well as of its operation. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'black' which fell in the summer of '13 was not at all an accident. He had an ideological basis and prepared years ago. In 1990, the then new New Democracy Government did not impose a 'black' but put down the relay in its operation, allowing it to work with a weak generator. I mean, as we all remember, its programme was downgraded by the abolition of emissions, producers and activities on radio and television. He then essentially silenced the famous 2nd Programme, the "Theatre of Monday" and a series of other broadcasts, degrading the ERT program to a meaningless, not literally of interest. The corridors of ERT were devastated, the studios fell apart. Fortunately, however, the viewer could turn his receiver to the private channels that at the time took their first steps, completely random! This first sign of writing of neoliberal policy against anything that is public and at the same time meets social needs was completed twenty-three years later with this lousy black on the screen, when the digital landscape had to be settled, completely randomly again. Now, then, it's an opportunity to create an ERT that won't remind of that old party TV, an ERT that won't need heroic journalists to carry the truth to the news and that you won't have to be on a party list to get a job. Let me tell you that in front of you you have a man who has not been happy to be on either of the two lists over the years, with the corresponding results. We therefore need and recommend an ERT where culture will do a great job in cultivating the public through the entertainment that honors both concepts of the term. We need public broadcasting where news, art, knowledge will be a democratic right of the people. With many and particular public categories, a body such as the one we are discussing must be contacted by treating its own particular needs: People with disabilities and underqualification, particular professional and cultural categories, geographical particularities and categories of interests. It is also a great pillar of education. Requirements are programmes that support public education programmes and provide self-awareness to those in need of knowledge that will reach the smallest island and the most forgotten village in our country. These elements along with information and entertainment can make a program that will embrace the public. Why do we not believe that television - particularly public television - to make a programme of interest and attractive must include broadcasts of good social criticism, reality or others like those that are awarded the most dirty home. The bill under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, ensures a public broadcasting of the large public, the smooth operation of today's NERIT at ERT without a new artificial black, if other legal routes were chosen. The bill also ensures that former ERT employees are re-entered - unless they have come to the full pension - they are mobilising contractors of a certain duration, it ensures the calm and smooth transition without re-racialisations in relation to NERIT's employees, because that is what you have achieved: the rivalry between former partners. The bill still provides a percentage of the reward fee for the film and the book. This, as far as the book is concerned, is for the first time and is symbolic and directly useful, since you have abolished public bodies and protection policies for the book, ladies and gentlemen of the previous government. But we believe, Minister, that there must be a decoupling of 1.5% of the film and that the book has its own percentage. The bill for ERT was the first act. Series is clearing out the digital frequencies, service providers and content providers that the previous government has arranged to settle, even at the time it was missing. But this time ended, as was the 'black' to the ERT. In front of us we have the ERT of entertainment, of knowledge, of culture, of a ERT democratic and worthy of the Greek people. This draft law ensures it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. I would ask Mr. Rizzo Dimitrios to come to Step. Here is Mr. Santorinios, Mr. Vorides and Mr. Sevastakis. Here, Mr. Rizzo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that my first presence at the Step of the House is combined with the debate on a new public broadcasting and television. A radiotelevision that will pass from the memorial black to the intense colors of hope. A public television objective, impartial, with equality in the transmission of information and news, quality, with a view to intellectual creation, with respect for the value of man. Independent of the state and of all the bodies of public or private authority and political parties, which geographically cover the whole of our country, even the "dine on the map", said by Thanasis Vegeus, and, of course, by democrat Greekism. But all this for me, this public broadcasting and coverage of the entire area of Greece, are represented by the operation of ERT3 and regional radio stations, especially of Orestiad and Komotini, in my area. The regional power stations that have not been dismantled, which have been stubbornly continued, with staff unpaid, are paid with fundraisers who have given voice to all of us. To all those who had previously been excluded from the established radiophony, to the small and insignificant for state power, but so important to our small society, to the everyday people of hardship, creation, neighborhood, solidarity with children or old people. The stations that continued to inform, to entertain, to inform, to organise collectives and social actions, with respect, love and honesty and all this, literally in the air, as you journalists say. There can be no public radio and television without us. Turn your attention, your support, your love at these stations, these people. Radio is the cheap, popular solution for many. There's no restraining the space. There's no need for a multi-cost facility. She's bringing us all over the house, to work, to the field. It promotes our local creators, young or old, our collectives. He's next to us, with us, he takes us everywhere, to the courts, to the schools, to the neighborhoods, to the people's markets, to the hospitals. It advises, updates, entertains, makes us company. Please don't let us down. Give a overwhelming answer to all those who brought the black of monomer, despair and misery. Give the opportunity to these flowers that planted in the monumental desert to become more, more durable. Give the workers in the new broadcasting market the opportunity to convince and convince us that we can make a new start together. That is why, because I firmly believe that all these thoughts are also the thoughts of many Members in this House and not just of the government, and that they also express the government's will through this bill, I urge colleagues to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for having said so much in half a year. Please, Mr. Santorinios Nektarios has the floor at Mr. Famelou's seat and Mr. Mavroudis (Makis) Vorides follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the black days of the memorandum and austerity took place on June 11, 2013 with the "black" image that fell on our screens, a black picture as black as the policies of the memorandum were. But there were much more black reasons why they imposed the closure of the ERT. It was the black alliance of private interests and the Samara government, which had to "clean" the landscape of digital frequencies to undisturbed digital licenses. But this alliance did not think, nor did it naturally care about the two and a half thousand workers on the road and how the region, the islands and especially the small islands will be informed. Especially for the region and the small islands, the regional stations of the NRA and the ERT channels were the only Greek media in their recipients, because today in many islands there are no radio and television frequencies that speak Greek. Even today the digital frequency network provider does not cover the whole territory and of course it is first paid for our islands, Tilos, South Rhodes, Karpathos, Kassos, where the digital signal has not yet arrived. On the other hand, in all the islands the frequencies are snug by stations in the neighbouring country. I ask you, since the question of operating costs is raised: How much does it cost to update our small islands? How much does it cost to update Greek Prime Minister? How much is the free, unbundled information for the citizens? As has been said in the committee, ERT will be the counterweight to the "yellow" and "building" on private channels, where the players in the vast majority of them strongly supported the bill. In this committee I remember characteristic of the representative of the Greek Greek authors' Panhellenic Federation saying that it would be enough to say only one "chronic many" - because of those days - and a "help" to comment on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are laying the foundations for a new ERT, free, democratic, independent ERT, an ERT that will convey the voice of the region, a ERT that will be controlled by society and not by the offices of Ministers, a ERT for culture, education, the economy, science, training for people with disabilities, for minorities, a ERT that will serve freedom, pluralism, democracy and ultimately society. Very soon private channels will have a competitor, not the dispersal of fear, not populism, not the cultivation of a climate of terror, not one-sided news, but a competitor in independent information, quality entertainment, level TV. For us, reconstituting ERT was our commitment, our debt, not only to public television workers, not only to society, to the struggles of the tens of thousands of people to protect the public character of ERT, but above all to democracy. It is our responsibility to justify the effort of ERT's struggling workers to resume objective journalism, the struggle for ERT's regional stations that have illegally evoked, according to you, and through many difficulties they have conveyed the message of resistance to the Memorandum Policies throughout Greece. What happened in June 2013, ladies and gentlemen, was horrifying and at the same time amazing. The "black", which you have resurrected and defended, was the beginning of your collapse, broke the sacred consistency of your government, was condemned by aggregation of the international media community and the great organisations for protecting freedom of the press. Above all, he brought you face to face with thousands of people, who every night created a human cord to protect the Radiomaker from the invasion of police forces. This "black" that you imposed by the invasion of the studio, with the terror of journalists and technicians in the Radiomear, turned you boomerang. Today you have a chance to correct a tragic and fatal mistake. What we are actually asking you today is not only your vote in favour. Society, the ERT workers and, above all, democracy asks for a position of responsibility from you. We must all contribute to giving society what it deserves: a free and open public television which has been denied two years ago. Finally, I would just like to comment on the importance of the reopening of the ERT for our islands. For the workers of NRA Rhodes, who within one night found themselves fired, but at the same time accountable for the equipment of the station, which no one went to pick up. These workers kept with nails and teeth the voice of the Dodecanese alive in the giraffe, no matter how much the NERIT administration tried to squeeze them down by downloading the power switches. From Rhodes it will once again send the message of free, free, democratic, public radio, to all our islands and the great and small ones, to all our seas, because ERT returns to our lives again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Nicholas, I have given the floor to Mr. Voridis. Do you want to wait, or are you going to take the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u18	I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u19	Besides, you're a man of tolerance. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u20	Even though we disagreed vertically!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me a small introduction. Because since we are discussing the overthrow of the memorandum policies here, I think we have had the opportunity to hear the Prime Minister yesterday. And if my memory is not cheating on me, Mr President, it was you who then gave the government a majority of the characterisation of'medicalists'. I suppose this majority has been widened since yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u22	I have never expressed this phrase, although those who expressed it proved it and shared it. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u23	Since yesterday I believe that this particular majority, this specific 'globalism' current, because after yesterday's interview with the Prime Minister, it obviously understood the favors of Chancellor, its clear political direction and its struggle. And all this, that is, the insults, criticism and deceptive characterisations belong to a past that has not been so well known. Now, however, things have been differentiated. I suppose that also covers SYRIZA's colleagues, and so, I say again, this 'humanisation' has gained supporters. Also, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I was anxious: if Mr Petrakos will be near us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u24	I'm here, here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u25	And, luckily, Mr. Petrakos is close to us, to remind him of exactly these positions, in this very provision, our nice dialogues in the previous period, when I was asking: 'What is, Mr. Petrakos, a public property sale? Low price? Is SYRIZA's argument with privatisations low price, unpaid consideration, low price?’ So Mr Petrakos told me that we are not selling at any price! Now they have just seen from the Prime Minister's position that there is probably a slight - perhaps a little greater - shift, because we are not simply selling, not just the issue is not the price, but it has come to see where the money will go from privatisation, whether they will go to debt repayment or go to another type of fund. Therefore, an important step has been taken. I think that we are in the first steps, because they are following the best, since the referendum has also entered. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we are really welcome to you and to realism, and I just hope that these memorial items, the mercanisation, the known ones, will be left to discuss other things that are beneficial policies from now on. I'm coming to this bill. By listening to you - and I have also heard the Minister - I am concerned that you have not understood what you are doing with this bill. I hear you say 'the reopening of the ERT'. To reach agreement, I tell you what the legal situation is. By means of a legislative act, the "ERT S.A." was solved and put into special liquidation. Subsequently, a new legal person, called ‘NERIT S.A.’, was created by law. This new legal person was a universal successor to the old as far as rights and obligations are concerned. Therefore, he took his property and took the obligations of “ERT SA.” However, as a result of the resolution and special liquidation, contracts of employment had been terminated and only part of the staff at the ‘NERIT S.A.’ by the employees at the ‘ERT S.A.’. So, in order to come to an understanding, the "ERT S.A." has disappeared, solved and is in special liquidation now that we are talking, the "NERIT S.A." was established. And what are you doing today? You change the name of “NERIT S.A.” and you do it “ERT S.A.”. That's what you're doing. You're making a change of corporate name. This is what you are doing, of course, plus a number of important or non-important interventions - this is judged - by the way in which the company that we set up, the Memorandum, the company of Black, is run and organised. That is what you are intervening in order to be fully informed. If you change it so dramatically that it is something else, it is discussed. In my opinion, no, you don't change it. In any case, however, that is what you are doing. What is, too, the other thing you're doing? It's the fact that you're making new recruitments. What new recruitments? Some of those who have been fired are recruited on the basis of certain criteria explained in the report and then on the basis of the provisions. I would like, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, to see the Memorandum of Understanding with our Prime Minister, but also with the entire Government, and I just hope it will be completed, in order to reach agreement, to put you here before specific responsibilities and difficult choices which the government has from now on. There is one question: In planning public recruitment, who commits - why did the government sign that it will not take unilateral action - what is there? There is the so-called '1/1 principle'. What's the beginning of 1/1? It is, as far as those who were released from the "ERT S.A." then, that there is the possibility and the right to the planning of recruitment are concerned to recruit equal numbers of workers in areas in need, 1/1, i.e. if a thousand five hundred left, there is the possibility of recruiting a thousand five hundred. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have one more minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u26	Of course, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much. I shall tell you directly what concerns me: has this planning been abrogated, Minister? If you abolished him, tell us, please. It will be an interesting statement, which will mean something. If you have not abolished it, ladies and gentlemen, this means that you here in the Chamber, given the limitation of recruitment, are chosen to take the particular five hundred, but not to take a thousand five hundred nurses, not to take a thousand five hundred teachers, not to take a thousand five hundred police officers. You are hiring the recruitment system, which I say is limited, that today what is a priority for the Greek taxpayer and the Greek State is the recruitment of the thousands of five hundred ERTs and not the recruitment of a thousand five hundred in other areas. This is an option with a certain weight for each government, I guess, and so it's bored. This debate that is taking place has a serious anachronism - and I shall end, Mr President, although I would like to say a few other things, but I will not make any progress. My daughter is two years old. In the morning he had the pad and he listened to children's songs - "My Apple Red", "My Voice". That's what he was listening to. From the-pad. Two years old! And we are coming here today and we are discussing, in the era of overinformation, in the era of the Internet, when children don't watch television and do not deal with public, but with private channels, which the whole new generation has a huge access to cultural goods via the Internet, and we are giving a great fight for 1% for 1.5% of television viewing! This is a battle over. Culture today, information, information has other channels and you will allow me to tell you - because I hear about DIGEA, Minister - that the debate on the use of television is even beyond today. Do you know what the European Commission is talking about? What do you think he's talking about? The impact of the use of spectrum between mobile telephony and traditional media. Why? Because mobile telephony now replaces TV, replaces radio. This is the trend of the next decade - do not think 20 years - of the next decade. This debate here, all we are doing now, is an inexistent debate, unexistent. It concerns - and I am very sorry - an outdated way of thinking and approaching information and communication. What was the big conflict, Minister? What was the conflict here - because I hear about 'DIGEA' - and how it emerged? When digital technology was created, we had to move from analogue to digital signal. Would Greece be staying without a digital signal? Oh, no. We had to stop by.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u28	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u29	I'll be done. What is the benefit of the digital signal? What's better than the quality of the show? It has the advantage that in the same spectrum position you can have more content providers, more emissions. This is the technological advantage of the digital spectrum. Question: Who would make this investment? The public?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u30	He mustn't do that. Is the public going to serve private individuals?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u31	Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u32	Don't interrupt. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u33	I'm done. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. He didn't have any money, and he certainly didn't have the know-how to do that, but he shouldn't do that. Listen to something: Why shouldn't he do that? Because the law of the Minister describes what it is to do with the public, the regulatory, the regulatory framework. That's where it has to end. The rest of it lies in the responsibility of entrepreneurship. And you are now telling me that this should not be done unless you hide an ideological approach here - but I want us to be thorough and honest - which does not want freely and private means of communication, which wants information that is controlled by the state, which does not want free access to the public. I also hear many times from the government 'we'll check one in the middle', 'we don't like the other in the middle' or 'we criticize this'. So here, in fact, there are two different philosophies. The big and real question, which has not been dealt with in this Chamber, is: Today, what the state has to do in the field of communication is to have public content providers or to create an effective regulatory framework? My position is clear, the second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Vorides seemed informed about the Prime Minister's interview! Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u37	Three minutes, Mr President. Mr Vorides made a position, which was - I think - of internal compactness and was constantly involved. However, it was absolutely incompatible with the strategy of his party, which expects the country to fall on the rocks to justify the left intervention scenario. Our government, Mr. Voridis, said, is moving towards Mercelism. Merckelism is to say, Mr Voridis, 'no sinner', not to go before Chancellor and say 'principal loan, 'SIEMENS' and the wrong policy'. This is also consistent with our election commitments to the people's mandate. You didn't do that. I recognize it as an ideological political position. You believe and continue to believe that the interests of the country are currently identical to the choices of the German Government. That's a reason I respect, it's a start, it's a middle and it's a end. We've seen her in writing. It assumes, I imagine, that Europe is a project to test, so Greece must be bound to the strong tank to obtain most of the benefits there. Yes, sir. This policy has been tested. It was disapproved by the people! I think your account isn't convincing. We are exhausted and will continue to exhaust all the margins and means of negotiation that the country has. Secondly, on privatisation. In Greece, Mr Voridis, the experiment of privatization was unprecedented. If the Memorandum were to be completed, we would have a public that would have been withdrawn as a whole. In Germany - because you invoked it - that we had gone a few days ago, there have been renationalisations of both electricity infrastructure and water infrastructure. Has the Land of Hamburg threatened to get it out of the euro? Nobody! So it is not an extreme neoliberal policy, which has been tested - I doubt it, and I undertake to be informed if it has been tested on this land as a privatisation programme on another side of the earth - and to identify it with the country's European path. What do we think we're serving when we do that really? The European idea? Was that the European idea? Leaving the public voluntarily? Now I really will wait with interest for the conclusion of the debate to see what the position of the New Democracy is. Do not be ERT network provider, withdraw the device. To be ‘DIGEA’. You only talked about regulatory roles. Honestly, I expect to hear it. Tell me, isn't the ERT a network provider? Do you want us to dismantle this public right? Let Kastelorizo's right to have access to the digital signal, to the ability of the individual to provide it? Mr. Voridis, I have received seven questions in three months of this government. Some of them are Members of your party. These say that parts of the country do not have a digital signal. Do you see, then, that the private sector, when we talk about large infrastructures, cannot meet the social need? That is a reality, and I must tell you that it is recognised at European level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Minister, what Mr. Voridis said did not understand well. Election, Mr. Tsipras' interview...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u41	Why do you give Mr. Georgiadis the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u42	Why do you give him the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u43	Don't yell, ladies and gentlemen. I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u44	Please. Please. Mr Georgiadis speaks as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u45	Minister, in the interview with SKAI, in Mr Chima's question whether he will meet Mrs Merkel, Mr Tsipras with obvious complacentness and ignorance - as proved - he said 'Who is Mrs Merkel? Mrs Merkel is one of the remaining nineteen Eurozone leaders. We will speak only in the institutions. It is about the line Mr Mitropoulos took and this morning at the 'MEGA'. While Mr. Tsipras was pro-electionally telling us "And who is Mrs. Merkel?" she went to Berlin. When Mrs. Merkel had come here, you were with him out here shouting "Go back, Mrs. Merkel" and the partner Mr. Kammenos marched to Psychic at the German Embassy with Mr. Terrence Quick and the Minister of State. And now you've invited Mrs. Merkel to Greece. And she's on the phone in Brussels, and the main thing is, we're learning from the German newspapers, Mr. Pappa, that she gets it, she says, and she's begging to get money. Who gets it and begs to take money now? The same person who was electorally saying 'We do not want Europe's money and we do not want the dose'. So, Mr. Pappa, listen. Ask for an apology for all your election nonsense. For Merkel, you're all right and we're going down there. You, too, in Mercedes, but don't work for us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u47	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u48	It's really impressive today's placement, with your familiar style, which also has an acceleration towards the end of the positioning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u49	When you don't have anything else to say, make sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u50	What the Prime Minister had said in election is that Mrs Merkel is one of the twenty-eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u51	Did you see them all twenty-eight three times?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u52	Don't interfere, Mrs. Swollen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u53	You're not gonna do anything else, I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u54	So I remind you that before the meeting with Mrs Merkel, the Prime Minister had seen other leaders from European countries who, unlike what you prophesied, agreed that an end to the policy of austerity should be made. Of course, we have here you to come and reproduce the German means of replicating the leaks of the German Ministry of Finance. Yes, sir. And this here is what you consider to be insensitive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u55	Reproduce what? Non paper yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u56	Let's pass it on to the government's official. These are the reliable ones. We were told by the representatives of other parties from which they are being informed. They are informed by means which they choose to hide the positions of the Greek Government and reproduce the positions of those who have every political interest. Here I must say that I understand you sincerely. For whatever agreement the Greek Government can reach, which will bring out the Greek economy from the vicious cycle of austerity, will rather make you "historical parentheses".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u57	Okay. Do your duty! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u58	Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks has the floor. Before you take the floor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, to welcome here the young and the new ones from the beautiful Chania, Kissamos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st High Kissamos Chania. We welcome you at a calm parliamentary sitting and wish you health and good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here you go, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, if it is good or not the new government's agreement, it will prove by how many votes it will get both through the House and outside the House. So, Mr. Pappa, don't worry. Soon we will have a chance to see whether the responsible person, as he wants to self-describe, opposition from Antonis Shamas and Vangelis Venizelos, is voting for the agreement. And then let me see what they're gonna say. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity today to hear the President-in-Office of today's sitting, Mr Metropoulou, in his television appearance that Mr Vorides had heard, although he did well to do and dealt with his daughter in the morning - who is his fortune, I wish we provincials would have the same joy and privilege - he would have heard that he remembered and reminded the Government - and I, from this step on this, do what is the popular mandate of 25 January by the government. It was to make a fair compromise with lenders, but it would not include memoranda and new material measures. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prime Minister is certainly well aware of this when he goes and meets the foreign leaders, and that is why he notes the reaction raised by his own negotiators and claims, obviously the ones he puts at the meetings he has, because otherwise it would have been over and we would not have been in this painful process for three months. Ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks, of course, and we are voting on the bill under discussion, because we believe that the creation of reliable public television is in the interests of the citizens and serves the highest quality of information. That is why we want a substantial debate to be held today. Unfortunately, since yesterday, it seems that the anti-population colleagues are avoiding the critical issues and giving a fresh impression when, for example, one hears Mr Voridis say 'No, the public is only good for the dirty work. For the sake of good work, we must call on the canaries, the sea batters who make a company and give the public 10 euros a rent and ask the regional stations and others to ensure that ten times more than ten times the rent. So this job is not for the public. A clean job that doesn't have any risk is just for the bearers of the mediation system. So we want, in today's debate, to have the greatest possible shocks and compositions, because we have a unique purpose, namely to restore this right of Greek society to public television. One of the colleagues who have taken the wish of the Greeks to have access to information, because DIGEA, despite its obligations, does not offer this right in writing to make against the Greek people and the Greek public, I am also, Mr Minister, because it is indeed important for the workers to return to their work, it is important that we ensure objective information, but it is not possible to close our ears and eyes to all our fellow citizens, our compatriots, who are on the border, who are also asking for the same rights as all other Greeks. However, the symbolisation of today's decision is extremely important. In the interests of balance, private initiatives must be taken by the State by means of public television or public education or public health. That was the core of the philosophy of social centers. Those of my fellow Members who go today to the memorial of Constantine Karamanlis should not forget that this was a warning from the neoliberal anti-grassroots and extreme measures that they are proposing and adopting today. This new government certainly does not fear the private initiative or anything public and state, seeking health everywhere, which does not exist in the media in this place. Since 2011 canals haven't even paid, as you know, 2% and the Memorandum governments have done that they didn't see. They needed, you see, the mediation "plate" to sow the horror and mislead the people and cycl him. There is no, you know, just the priesthood of the European Union, not only the German elite, there are not only foreign loan sharks, but there are also some here who want to destabilise the Greek Government. They are all these domestic mechanisms that act within the country as a fifth pole. And these are the systemic media. You should have seen today how they were trying to dismantle the Prime Minister's public speech. Mr. Voridis, I see you're smiling. Indeed, Mr Tsipras, as I have heard, had 40% viewing. Unprecedented, he says. You know well, Mr Voridis, and all colleagues what a show means to have 40% television viewing. If, therefore, he did give it to public television, he would not have 1%. So don't worry. As long as the Prime Minister of the country is in doubt, he will be able to give where he will host what he gave yesterday to Mr Hatzinikolau. However, our question today is this: in this tough negotiation that we will allow them every day unobstructed to unleash their policy at the expense of the government, but at the expense of the interests of the country and the Greek people? Should the government allow this situation to be perpetuated? And anyway, yes, with our money? Is it with their own money? Have you seen what their lending is? I believe that the government should take immediate measures, not only to reveal the role of all these Memorandum propaganda mechanisms, but also to react. And quite rightly, the Minister of State, when he has already asked for this 2% to be paid. Minister, to have a good explanation, did anyone pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u60	The satellite channels ‘OTE TV’ and ‘NOVA’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u61	Yes, sir. From what you've heard, others still say theirs. Are you curious about how much money we're talking about? How much money didn't the channels give with the tolerance of the state? I say this because today it was heard that 'you have money to fly for state television'. Who does that sound from? One of those who, while leaving without power to some who owed 100 or 200 euros, left the ‘ANT1’ to owe 6.5 million euros, the ‘ALPHA’ of 4 million euros, the ‘MEGA’ of more than 7.4 million euros to the state funds. To understand it, while the law imposed a minimum rent on the use of frequencies that are the property of the Greek people and the rulers cut off the pension of our grandparents and grandparents, at the same time gave gifts to the dominant media directors, unfair even many other media, to be covered and raised. In all this, the Greek people want you to put an end to this. As the rapporteur of the Independent Greeks pointed out, we want ERT to directly compete with private channels and to be able to fulfil the obligation of information, but also to highlight cultural and educational values. In essence, we want the media space to be refined in full and in total, not to be the field of interoperable and transaction, to operate on purely business plans and criteria and not with any kind of pimps. No one can function if it has negative own funds. In order to be able to operate media enterprises, this elementary requirement should have been ensured. Until when will some people be posing as sea-shore mistresses to provide us with guided updates? In my question to the Prime Minister on 3 April I stressed the need to clarify the huge scale of funding for the highly indebted media enterprises, saying that the total liabilities are EUR 700 million. So much has been accumulated by the country's fifty-eight publishing companies only for 2013! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for example, the company "KATHMERIAN EVENTS" of Alfouzou is alleged to have made a EUR 36 million loan with the four systemic banks. I see that colleagues from New Democracy, apart from Mr Dimas, are all missing. That is their interest in this matter today! But, perhaps, they don't want to hear anything. Do you know how the company itself announced on the Securities Exchange that, from this bond loan, 31 million went for refinancing and 4 million went as a new one - it says - an allocation to cover current liabilities? Do you know other Greek entrepreneurs who have this possibility at this time, this financial benefit, and not enough guarantees? The granting of this loan, Minister, as we have said in our question, violates every rule of legality and banking ethics, and that is why Mr Stournaras does not want to bring the data here to Parliament. You are very grateful to say that. And if Mr Stournaras does not want to do so, if he does not want the guardian of the interests of the Greek people to be there, who is forced to give his money to the banks, he can do another job. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to deprive its parent of its own funds, having, according to the balance sheet on 30-12-2013, negative own funds of more than EUR 7 million, which cannot in any event be covered by its parent company, 'KATHMERINA', because it is loss-making with accumulated losses of EUR 18 million. So let us not be told again by the colleagues who are here today about the resource economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the new ERTs want to correct the mistakes of the past. We want to improve the ways and means of interaction and communication. But let us make it clear at the same time that the annual fee for the new ERT is 36 euros, as it was with NERIT, and let us bear in mind that the average for the European Union is 129 euros. At this point I would like to repeat that we must in no way forget all those who have the right to re-entry, except those for whom this bill has already been taken care of, including, of course, the workers at the regional stations. We do not want to create a waste organism. But we want to insist that it is absolutely fair that those contractors who preferred to be in the bars and give their fight rather than give in to a compromise should come back. We are not pleased that ERT is reopening without a pan-Hellenic range, without specifying the operation of regional stations precisely, but we agree that the new body should see the country's financial data and be a product of great consensus so that we can escape from the time when public service broadcasting could be controlled by the respective government. At this point from the Step of the House, I would like to congratulate the ERT workers for their long and difficult struggle when the previous government decided at night to download the switch. We do not forget ERT Open and the irresponsible regional stations. We are mainly keeping the unprecedented passion for journalistic truth and for essential information that has emerged during this difficult period and which all the Greeks embraced. We ask them, in fact, right at this very moment at the outside of the teeth to continue to offer it. We ask them to make the same tough and endless criticism to do to all of us now and always. In these difficult months, ladies and gentlemen, the ERT workers have demonstrated their oppressed skills - I will agree with those who say so - under the government's dictates, the slow wages, the 'golden boys' of the government. Donors of administrations, gold contracts are not about real workers, Mrs Vulture. They only highlight the sepsis of the new political prisoners today. The Samara - Venizelou coexistence while it could touch on the real workers and clean up the ERT, preferred to shut it down. This was another cheap and undemocratic move towards the Troika from the many that we have seen from the former co-pilots, who of course remain unrepentant and unmovable. We wouldn't expect anything different. But we expect the Vice-Presidents to show something different. We expect even an indication of a fertile self-criticism or an act of restoring the injustices that have been committed, that is to say, to vote in favour of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of Independent Greeks supports the bill in order to help restore the justice, democracy and the right of Greeks to information and entertainment by a modern independent public body. I repeat that we do not forget the contractors and the Greek region. Today we are only making the beginning and we will give a continuous struggle so that the new ERT will grow a great deal and justify them all. And we will still strive a great deal for the independence of public service broadcasting to be fundamentally guaranteed. The provision of a principle agreement between ERT is essentially the independence of public service broadcasting. The Greek state's prediction is good, but I'm afraid it's not enough. The Independent Greeks will work to create a contract that gives true independence to the ERT and forbid the government from interfering with these goods. And we'll work to get the ERT so much weight and prestige that it'll be very difficult to think that it can intervene. Let the new ERT be another message to everyone that Greece is changing, leaving yesterday and starting its productive and organisational reconstruction. In conclusion, Minister, I would really like to say from this step forward that the political decision of the Greek people that was reflected in the elections is clearly a given one. However, the successful outcome of the political conflict also depends on the clearing of the state mechanism, except for the median environment that I have told you. Because, you know, it's very difficult for us to apologize. And we don't find any excuses for how they can still stay in their posts and in critical areas of administration people who have been supported by foreign centers and domestic complexes. Just before I told you about Mr. Stournara. Such a person is Mrs Savvaidou, who is still Secretary-General of Public Income. Furthermore, Mrs Sakellariou, the managing director of the Financial Stability Fund with a salary of EUR 250,000 - please - the time to leave EUR 1 billion of the last recapitalisation of the banks! What is happening with Mr. Spiropoulos, the well-known trade unionist of OTE, the commander of IKA, the Treasury of PASOK, to whom Mr. Tsukatos told how the money was being raised? Minister, I think the government has been delayed. I believe that in the next critical days when we are all sure that we will reach an agreement in favour of the Greek people and the country, such that will make us all proud, you will also have the opportunity to clean up the "Saint of Sanctuary". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Mr. Sevastakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u64	What do you want, Mr. Dimas?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u65	There was a roll-call, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u66	It was positive, Mr. Comrade. It wasn't negative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u67	It was so thinly printed that it cannot be understood as a personal reference. In any case, here you are, Mr Dimas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u68	What I wanted to say, in particular to be recorded in the Minutes, is that at the same time as the debate that is being held here, the memorial of Constantine Karamanlis - the rapporteur of the Independent Greeks, who can be present, I hope, as I hope...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u69	That's where I'm going now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u70	Is that where you're going?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u71	It's a memorial, if it were a function, it'd be over...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u72	Even in the Group of Independent Greeks, however, the only one to listen to you is the heroic Mr. Damavonitis. So you should first comment on your own parliamentary group and then on the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u73	Following the analogy, you understand with 10% how many you should be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u74	Okay, well you did, and you reminded me of that. Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis has the floor. Here is Mr. Constantine Tsukalas, who took the place that was noblely offered by Mr. Athanasios, who took the place of Mr. Tsukalas, nine places down on the list. Here, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u75	The bill is tabled in the following Treaty: on the one hand, we have a multi-annual, favourable function of ERT, essentially listing ministries' press releases and full political control, and on the other hand we have the following extra-constitutional liquidation, its closure. So between these two fields, he's swaying, he's trying to balance the bill. I fear that, with the debate so far, certain aspects of the operation of the public television service have escaped our attention, which are very important, and that its recent degradation with closure and dismissal has highlighted these aspects. Who are they? First of all, it's language, it's cultural dispersion, it's the logic of territory, it emits all over the territory, that it's received its message from all over the territory, and it's also the file. In other words, it is the "Second Program" with a Greek-speaking song, it is the scholarship "Third Program", it is the "ERA Aegean", it is the "Cosmos", that is, the elements that make public television up to a great cultural acquisition, which must be rebuilt by new terms and with completely different tools in relation to the past of favorability, scandalous contracts and full political control by power. This hand-made new ERT I think has been made quite reliably by the legal structure, by the legislative structure that has been going down and which we have been discussing for two days. Behind these two sides, the "old" side, that in collective subconsciousness the "old ERT" has been established as a propaganda tool, and on the other hand its extra-constitutional liquidation and its violent closure, so there is also a ideology containing it, the idea of recompense, that you must be the actor of your profit, that your own message, your own cultural construction must be an actor and your profit, that is also economical. According to this idea of recompense closes the Third Programme, it is considered unnecessary because it concerns a small 3% 'hard' audience of the Greek territory. With this logic, the Second Programme would close as highly qualified, the World would close, the Aegean NRA would close as something beyond, on the eve, in relation to the bourgeoisie, with the city. I think, therefore, that these conditions are the unfavourable political conditions on which the legislation is trying to balance. And I think it does, although I identify some points that could be more conspicuous, such as, for example, the critical and strategic concept of the file. References to the bill relate to the present - not to the past - file, the archive stock, which is national property. And I think it is also the element that changes public television and radio to a strategic choice and not just a management to restore employment injustices. So the concept of the file is problematic. Also, a problematic concept found in the bill, which runs the bill, is the concept of'revival'. The concept of'revival' -'revival of relationships' -'revival of working structures' - I think it is a poor term - although I understand the intention - because it is, in fact, to bridge the relationship with something that no one intends to bridge, that is to say, the relationship with a past political manipulation and control. With these reservations, I think the bill gives us some opportunities that are illuminated by other aspects. For example, since in my home country Samos right now a place is out, it doesn't have a picture, it doesn't have a badge. At the moment, about 20% - you have answered me and the question I asked you, Minister - is not covered. Also, in my home country Samos a large part of the frequencies, the vast majority of the frequencies, are covered by the radio speech of the neighbouring country. I have the opportunity, when I am in my home country, to nurse throughout the doghouse - which is very close to our doggie - of the neighbouring country and so also to see the points of cultural proximity that exist. This part of 'black' - another kind of 'black' - I think it is very serious and related, since the new ERT is also the provider and producer. In other words, it is also related to the electronic dispersal structures of the trade mark and to the production and establishment of a programme. I think that under these conditions we should emphasise and re-see the 'public television' case as if it were public space. Public TV can't be that closed shop it was. It is a public space, it is a collective space and so it will only be assimilated by society. And so only we have the political tools to support and develop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr Sevastakis, for your very interesting intervention. I call on Mr Constantino Tsukalas to step up, which I hope he will raise interesting issues. Here, Professor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is of special importance to the country, to the government, and I would say to the left. It is confronted by dreams and visions of decades and aspires to transform values and principles first into specific legal rules and then to build a new, progressive, popular and national consciousness. It is not, therefore, a question of simply reopening the ERT, but of its radical, structural, I would say, restructuring. There is no question of returning to the model of state, politically and partyly, controlled television, as we have known, since its establishment to date. This does not mean, however, that the new television should be or may be 'lefter'. The whole opposite. The Left neither plans nor wants a television that it controls. A truly democratic, multi-speaking television must work beyond and independently of any particular party, political or ideological feasibility. In a way, therefore, its political significance is bizarrely dependent on what one might say 'deculturalisation', which is typical and essential. The new public television, therefore, cannot seek and is not entitled to display certain charged positions and options. It must obey unmovable and ideologically improper formal rules, act as neutral and impartial in relation to all current political risks. Of course, it is clear that we cannot be sure in advance that this neutrality can be guaranteed de facto. All institutional realities fall within some kind of powerful framework, some sort of power games. In this sense, therefore, the risk of the majority of tyranny lies everywhere. In this sense, therefore, this bill can only be the first step. The appointment of the ERT administration is, of course, under the crisis of the House's Committee on Institutions and Transparency. However, given that the decision of the committee today can be taken by a simple majority, it is clear that the political domination of the forces of the Complex, the juncture, cannot be effectively called into question. That is the essential reason why the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group intends to propose to amend the provisions of Rule 49A of the Rules of Procedure and to make the formation of a qualified majority conditional. Only then can there be wider consensus on the persons who will be called upon to run the ERT, and so alone can a greater autonomy of broadcasting with regard to the parliamentary majority, namely the power. Such autonomy is a prerequisite for the continuous monitoring of every option, a condition for the formation of a free opinion by the citizens, and that is exactly what absolute and non-negotiable safeguarded protection of freedom of the press is. Any manipulation operation, persuasive ones, runs counter to the guaranteed ability to manipulate and unrestrained. This is the quintusia of communication pluralism. This cannot be ensured when, for example, both private and state television abuse their power. This is the case, for example, when protests are exaggerated by workers who are not against them, but are in favour of their employer, when a fine is waived for one of the country's major economic agents, when the strong ones look good. At that time, opinions cannot be formed inviolably. Such phenomena distort - I believe - the notion of information and 'harm' democracy. This is particularly important for television, much more so than school and education, in our time television is the most important ideological mechanism. On the one hand, it is a kind of "Great Brother" that penetrates everywhere and sounds from everyone. On the other hand, for technical and economic reasons, television stations necessarily operate as an established oligopoly. Irrespective of the fact that a licence has been obtained, a lot of money is needed and an important infrastructure is needed to provide it. Television is an investment and cannot under any circumstances be left to any investors. Thus, independent public television is a necessary complement to and embedded in the private sector. That seemed clear when ERT closed. The "black" created a trauma even to those who did not see public television. Characteristics and even though the pathogens of the old ERT were known, the ERT Open experiment moved and inspired millions. This despised ERT emerged in a palladium of communication pluralism, a kind of return of the repellent. The state is responsible for ensuring this pluralism, especially in the context of the crisis and current political competition. Private media are always heterogeneous and binding their business commitments and necessarily serve interests and promote concrete ideas, even if there is control and supervision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u78	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u79	Even if they are subject to the law and the Broadcasting Council, even in marginal cases such as election times, they are obliged to present all views on equal terms. No one can ever stop the private media from promoting their own interests. On the other hand, history has shown in a way that - I believe - state monopolies are even more arbitrary, even more dangerous. So there should be at least one television that operates completely autonomously, an instrument that is neither private nor state-owned, it will not depend on speculative companies, nor on political powers, but it will be autonomous. This is the only ideological counterbalance in the case-law of private and public media. This is exactly what I believe is being pursued by the new law, a change, for example, which will be replaced by both state television and private television. I shall conclude, Mr President. We cannot be sure of the macroscopic effect of the intervention. That's all history will show. But there is no other way, I believe, to ensure a permanent institutional and ideological counterweight to the political, ideological and, above all, cultural abuses and distortions made possible by private and state television. Private television is necessary to ensure that there is always a risk of stagnation. On the other hand, public non-state television is the only security test that can balance the intrinsic peculiarity of the private. A final judge, of course, is the citizen, the user. But users also change. Users change priorities and standards. Nowadays, the TV audience is suspicious, but thirsty and looking for new stimuli, rethinking his life, the world around him. We have also seen this in the elections as well as in the overturns that have been made with them. That is what I think - and I am ending - is the major cultural bet. Together with education, public television has to lay the foundations for a regeneration of the country. This is precisely the democratic, progressive version of the new media that we are evangelizing. That is why, in my opinion, it is essentially left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr Tsukalas, for the interesting points you have raised. Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides has the floor from the New Democracy. Mr Mitafidis and Athanasios Petrakos will then be followed. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to endorse what has been said by the last and last speaker. Of course, with the latter, I do not agree with his suggestion and his conclusion, but as far as the content is concerned. Mr. Tsukala, I would like to say that first we are changing the Rules of Procedure, as you have recommended, and then we are moving into a legislature. This is where something was done quite differently. I do not know whether, as Mr Tsukala has said, it can be achieved with this bill, with this legislation, autonomy, independence, pluralism. It is a question, but of course, the guarantees are not provided. I'll be right back. Nor do I think it should be a priority to regulate or make such a commitment because, Minister, there have been other commitments on your part, which unfortunately have not been complied with and which you have made in agreements with content - so we are told - quite different from what you have committed in the run-up to the election, but also in your programme statements. The TV scenery is classed. An independent broadcasting station is being set up. The minister presenting it has been mentioned. How is that possible? The ones you blamed before NERIT was created? Didn't you report them, executives and employees, as a partyman and a state-runner? Now what happened and they made productors? Apparently, they went up to SYRIZA's swimming pool. Through the bill there is no assessment of who the number, who will ultimately pay the marble despite any intention or any charge that may be borne at the current level. But by ministerial decision, Minister, you will immediately be able to increase this end. Of course, should the assessment not be carried out? Is this unknown number necessary? Could it not, in any case, be renewed by those people who can meet today's needs, but also tomorrow's - do we mean executives - and if there are indeed them made redundant to drive through a move elsewhere in need of the public? You blamed public television as governmental and controlled. Now do you make her free, independent? In what way? By abolishing the supervisory board and making the relevant Minister sovereign, because “Nikos will buy Nikos will he drink”? SYRIZA's dear rapporteur said that the first thing you have to do is to represent workers in management. As far as I know, there was a more healthy representation than that. What happened to the 25% rate covered by external programmes? So what are you going to do with this bill? You aim to build a state television SYRIZA. I hear it from your SYRIZA colleagues that, in the face of the elections, it is good to have a channel of our own. In other words, you intend to create a state of SYRIZA, just as with previous bills you have attempted and attempted again. The draft law, now a law on the humanitarian crisis by the thirty-two articles, in the four, referred to it, in the rest, to how a state should be established, with the supervision of appointed and even volunteers. This is the first time in Greek. The release of the terrorists came, the hundred doses and immediately after two days the act of legislative content, so that big businessmen, as we saw recently, who owed the public 6 million, paid the public 1.9 million and 4 million in fact 'they'. The reserves you took from insurance funds and not just? With regard to the 300 million through Community programmes, I have also heard the Minister for Rural Development say that they will be placed at the Bank of Greece and have a yield of 2.5%. But these interest rates are heading towards the Community. You'll tell me it's good. So it's no use. So, another is the purpose that we are leading to that. I shall, of course, agree with Mr Voutsi alone - and he is missing - that he has indeed become the political therapist. But what do you do for all this? This bill does not achieve anything, it simply becomes a shot and I said the cause before. Mr Voutsis has said that we are moving towards a small agreement with a slight retreat and in June we will have a great deal of agreement. We will see the content to see how great this retreat will be in terms of ENPIA, as the Prime Minister has heard. Did we forget the 12,000 euros tax-free too? So, three months now and two months ago, that is, five months ago, you are going to deceive and deceive the people and you came yesterday with the new tsar of the economy to tell us that you made mistakes, we made mistakes, and that, possibly, was the replacement of Mr Varoufakis tsakaka - tsaka with the new tsar of the economy with Tsakalotos. However, the people and all of us here have not eaten perfume and we know what has happened, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and what we have spent the two and a half years, the insults and - if you like - our permeability on a daily basis. Of course, Minister, it is not our goal for the country to go to the rocks. That's why our control and our advocacy for me were in the trimester. Those hundred days have passed. The days of tolerance for me, but I believe other Members, but also for society, have passed. Your legitimacy is now beginning to run out to a large extent. I must stress it. At the moment you should, since you see that businesses are closing down, production is not and we are going from evil to worse, this attitude of malt melting, 'plins and horns', as a tower Babel, has to stop. We have a duty as a Qualified Opposition, precisely that's what we're doing. I expect a public apologies from you for what you have before the parties that were also in the previous parliamentary term and not just to go to a national consensus, so that we can get out of this deadlock. If that is not the case, I would like to point out clearly from my party, from my side, that no vote will be taken. If for you there is no apologies, for my part, that won't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. I have the honour to announce the presence of young people who have come to see the exemplary functioning of the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of the Parliament, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and an educational attendant from the 1st Graduate School of Galatium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Mitafidis, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that our differences are political, and therefore the apologies requested to us do not have any place on the central issues that exist. I think that as long as days pass, this is getting clearer and Mr. Voridis was extremely revealing. I see that some Members from the New Democracy, despite the calls for consensus and national agreement, clearly put a purely class line in relation to the government's policy. This was also evident in yesterday's debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. Mr Vorides has tempted me to ask him if his customers - except 'ENERGA' and 'POWER' - include 'DIGEA'. Why, he told us that this debate is about the museum of the antiquities of the House. That it is an obsolete debate, since we have now entered the sphere of virtual reality and have to be transformed into "gatzetakis". That there's no reason to spend our time with the public media. You made a decision darkening. With the language of the philosophers of Greek enlightenment you could be classified as the "lighters". And you did this to serve private interests. Frequency had therefore to be delivered, except for channels and ‘DIGEA’. The bitter fruits of your actions are at the moment. And, as I said at the meeting of the committee, we almost had "black" on Municipal Television in Thessaloniki. There, of course, the Board of Directors of Municipal Television under the extortion, signed with DIGEA and now calls for the contract to be revised. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because you are asking for guarantees that we will not have one of the same, I would like to tell you that our past guarantees it. He's talking about the past, about how we understand public information and how you understand it. You consider it a 'usable product', to use the market phrase of neoliberal ideology, while we regard it as a public good. Regarding our experience with the ET -3 in Thessaloniki, which became a pole of conflict between all the fighting victims of the crisis, but at the same time also an original self-management experiment, which photographs the future, I would like to say that I also personally feel proud as an instructor and as a trade unionist. Why, the transmitter that is currently transmitting the radio of the ET-3, is the transmitter of the two great strikes of the teachers, in 1988 and 1990. This racing tradition guarantees our pluralism, as you ask for guarantees. I also want to welcome the fact that this bill will provide a digital signal - I imagine in terms of a public instrument, and in municipal media, which will complement the work of public television. In addition, I would like from this position to emphasise the contribution of especially of ET -3 before they shut it down in the maintenance of historical memory, particularly in the area of Thessaloniki, with the extremely documentaries that have returned and on the occasion of the hundred years of free Thessaloniki. I would like to ask them, by addressing the New Democracy colleagues, whether they have remorse, and that is why they are bringing an amendment to ERT's fired fixed-term contractors. The people who closed off public television and led to unemployment by so many people are asking for a fixed-term contract to be converted into public television contracts? You are provoking, with perverse courage, the government that spoke about moulation. I would like, Mr President-in-Office, to raise a point raised by other colleagues, and I see that there is also in the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. It concerns the revival of the former ERT workers' contracts. I think there needs to be a clarification on this issue, because I think we will have problems with their work arrangements. We need to make this clear so that the ERT can be reopened and that it does not give anyone the opportunity to undermine its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. Mr. Petrakos has the floor, followed by Mrs. Anastasia Gara. Here, Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u85	I would ask you, Madam President, to give me a minute further, because there has been a personal mention - a challenge by Mr Voridis. Of course, it's none of New Democracy, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u86	One minute, it's nothing. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u87	I would therefore like to reply to the New Democracy, because there has also been a personal challenge, that we are neither selling nor selling. Didn't Mr. Voridis hear it? We will reiterate that the privatisations of both IPTO and PPC have ceased. As much as lenders are hit, public enterprises of strategic importance will not be sold out. Secondly, we've heard a lot of jokes. These jokes, however, in order to say them, must have a great deal of nerve and it seems that colleagues have. We heard yesterday lessons of independence and pluralism from PASOK, which had transformed any public business into a partisan man. But today, we heard the biggest joke from Mr. Vorides, that it is progressive that ERT has been closed and that we who are going to bring it back to time and say: 'But what are you talking about? Is that the problem? The digital platform.’; With the only difference that Mr Vorides, as Minister of the previous co-chairman of Mr Papademos, should remember - and I will present it in the Minutes - that the then Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks had ordered an investigation into the company 'ANALYSYS MASON' - which was even presented at a conference on 29 March 2012 - which he says, in conclusion, that the state had to get EUR 715 million for the digital platform. The state, however, then, after shutting down ERT, took 18.39 million. So the conclusion - for the New Democracy colleagues - is that this is a serious issue here. We have foreshadowed profits of the Greek State about 700m euros. This is a progressive or serious issue, which is accountable for, because on the one hand they cut wages and pensions and, on the other hand, gave their friends canals 700 million? The coup closure of ERT...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u88	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u89	He says it here. You're late. You don't have to interrupt me anymore. I am presenting in the Minutes the survey that has been presented at a conference, I repeat, on 29 March 2012, and this results from that. Let's get to know each other. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Petrakos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The coup d'état closure of ERT is clear - and you have to admit it and leave these progressive and anachronists tales - for two reasons: Firstly, because Mr Samaras could not imagine that an instrument which, when he was a government, considered it his own could say in time and in any other way. Now and then! The fact that there was a channel, which was not bleaching from morning to night the government, but also at a rate of 10%, was also objective and, in the end, was a little more objective than private channels. He couldn't stand it. Secondly, he wanted to serve with what I said the interests of private canals. That's what's hiding. As I said - and I repeat it to my fellow Members, let them be absent - from the canalarchs, on the basis of the research I mentioned before, it amounts to 700 million. In Messinia, my home country, this extreme anti-democratic energy has gained even more undemocratic features. When Mr Samaras came to Nafplio for the New Democracy's pre-seminar, radios had to be shut down in all the prefectures. At that time they took on the essence of evidence - which some were calling themselves Mr Samaras' friends. They were tempered, circumvented the local prosecutor, the local police, invaded the machinery and closed the local Greek radio, which was broadcast with the employees, but also closed NOVA and became the "come to see". I've filed press reports on all of this. The government also claimed - it was the'second line of defence' - that it shut down ERT because it was a man of corruption and interlocutory. However, the New Democracy still has not responded to the letter from the former director of ERT news to the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, who - to remind you - said: "I suppose you are referring, Mr Samaras, to those you yourself have conceived, or your companions and your partners in the government. You are obviously referring to thirty unpaid wages, the majority of the Special Advisers and the staff of the special posts appointed to the ERT since the first day of your duties. I assume you are referring to - says Mr Coyannis - to your best man, Mr A., who has been appointed with remuneration of EUR 3,500 a month. I assume you are referring to the best man of your Press Office, Mr. Muroutis, who also receives EUR 3,500 a month. I assume that you are still referring to the constituencies of your Minister, Mr. Simpson, who is responsible for the press, Mr. B.R., rewarded with 3,000 euros a month. Also, for mismanagement, I imagine you are referring to the 1,000,000 euros a year spent on the “Medium 136” show to find an expression step by Mrs. A.S., a relative of the former member of the New Democracy.’ This is the answer which has been given and which has not been repaid by the New Democracy. The closure, of course, of ERT was also the starting point for attacks on other public goods and a social state. Following the ERT's 'black' followed the availability of two thousand teachers and the deterioration of technical education for the benefit of private schools, the dismantling of the health system, the sale of public property. These illegally dismissed workers return with the next bill, the treatment of which has been completed in the committee responsible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have also heard about the large number of workers in the ERT and the super-government fees. It proved to the committee that this is not the case either. The ERT will be reopened with two and twenty-four employees per million inhabitants, a figure less than the average in European countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Petrako, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Madam President. I asked two minutes longer because there was the staff. The government, with the bill under discussion, restores democratic normality to the country. It restores citizens' right to free information. It's getting black out of our lives. The ERT is reintroduced with pan-Hellenic and regional television and radio stations, with the Music Ensembles, the websites, as well as the electronic and printed version of the magazine. ERT will be a public company with administrative and financial self-sufficiency. It will also be addressed to the Greek Prime Minister, who listens to nothing from the country and also to the seafarers. There is particular emphasis on the independence of the State and all public and private bodies. That bothers you with the reopening of the ERT. Yeah, re-enter the illegally fired personnel. The closure of the ERT - and I am ending with it - was a coup d'état. By voting for the bill that we are discussing, this wound closes and ends at the most black moment for freedom of the press and democracy from post-multiple. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. Mrs Gara has the floor and Mrs Kozobol-Amanatidis is prepared. Mrs. Gara, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u93	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin my position today with a personal experience, because the debate on public information and public education cannot be confined to a bill. Years ago, when I was in the first grades of elementary school, I was watching a children's show called Carousel. Maybe most of you didn't catch up with her, but I was watching her with perseverance and patience. There's been a scene in my mind for too many years. The teacher - and protagonist of the series - was in class and wrote exercises for students on the table. She's in class for a student's father to meet her. Turns the teacher to greet the father, suggests her hand, and he hesitates, saying he has oil in his hands at work. The teacher proposes her own hands full of chalk, tightens her hand and says that everyone in his hands has the marks of his work. This scene is engraved in my mind, because growing up I realized it's a very characteristic way to pass messages against racism on to children. It also demonstrates the educational and effective role that public television and a public media can have by passing messages to many children, such as my own generation. This public instrument can play a role precisely because it can work in a reasonable way towards profit without seeing us as products of overconsumption. When the voice of ERT was silenced on June 11, 2013, the chalk left for us too. When the "black" to the ERT with coup d'état and anti-democrat processes fell, we all understood very well that stabbing in democracy is not done with the dagger, but with the tape. The ERT's missing signal demonstrates one of the most symbolic moments of anti-population and anti-democratic policy carried out by previous governments, causing many consequences. It was not just a blow to democracy or public information. It was a blow to education, culture and work, leaving thousands of unemployed on the road and, above all, it was a hit on labour rights for all workers in the media, even on the private ones, which you reasonably supported. With this bill, we do not want to re-establish an ERT in the models of previous years, a ERT party, a syndicate and full of scandals. You know that very well, gentlemen of counterpopulation. So we categorically state that we want a new ERT, a public instrument that will serve the needs of the people and workers, at the service of quality, information and entertainment. That is why the re-establishment of the ERT must be combined with its qualitative reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, when the black in the ERT fell, a new process began for those who were in the yard of regional stations, after we had the shock and after this anti-democratic blow, which hit very sensitive cells, for those with sensitivities, of course. The NRA workers, in cooperation with the citizens, were the ones who kept the voice of ERT alive and sound, but also the values of democracy, were the ones who turned ERT into a cell of information, culture and social action through self-management regimes. He opened the gates, accepted the citizens, participated in civic actions, organised events, demanded, united with the rest of the affected and working people, while at the same time he continued to highlight local issues and, I would say, much more creative than before. The title 'Open ERT' has become much more important to us. They also became values of fellowship, participation and collectiveness, high for some of us. So, by contributing to the reconstruction of ERT from the Stepping of the House, I would like to insist on the importance of NRA regional stations for local communities, but also on the possibilities for their reconstruction, playing a different and productive role, recommending an active part of society. After all, it is the voice of local communities, covering every society and every particular feature of them. That is why we must pay particular attention to them. So, in the bill we are discussing, it is clear that more binding rules are needed for the operation of regional stations and I would ask you, Minister, to pay particular attention to it. Moreover, the operation of all NRA regional stations, with the necessary staff and logistical support, demonstrates their ability to highlight the problems and the successes of local communities. For areas such as Evros, but also other remote areas, public broadcasting is the link between information and the centre, bringing everyone a sense of equality and equality. At the same time, of course, the regional stations of the NRA should be able to increase their programme, acquire autonomy in shaping the local programme on the basis of the region's needs, but at the same time be able to assist as islands of expression for active citizens. In particular, as far as my prefecture is concerned, NRA Orestiada has additional potential, because of the geographical location of the region, for the development and implementation of cross-border cooperation and for the promotion of cultural, exchange of views and joint actions with neighbouring countries. At the same time, regional stations must be based on their operating logic as regional multi-stage radio, television and Internet - with full use of staff, with the aim of ERT being an example of a genuine public service broadcaster that will inform, entertain and highlight culture, history and sport, in cooperation with civil society for a pluralist, multi-lingual and multi-cultural society. Ladies and gentlemen, we must together - government, workers, citizens - work to prove to society, but also to those who lost their faith early for this project, that independent, unarmed, multi-collective, creative ERT is possible and is in our hands. It is up to us to relive the messages, bring the colors, musicians and especially our children's dreams to life. So let's refill our hands with chalk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Mrs Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis has the floor and Mr Ziannas is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, in an environment which is difficult, rugged, looted and thorny, the only firm thing is the government's will to move forward, to reconstitute the canvas, to lift injustices, to heal wounds to democracy. The current draft law on the reopening of the ERT also comes in this context. The closure of the ERT in June 2013 was decided by an act of legislation that never came to the House to be ratified. Over the past few days we have lived the theater of irrationality in this Chamber. Those who, over the past five years, have dictated exclusively by legislative acts to us, have been rebuking us and shaking our fingers because we have brought the legislative act on the transfer of public bodies to the Bank of Greece. It was an act which was fully justified by the urgent need to heal at that time, which the Scientific Service of the Parliament considered as constitutional and which came to Parliament immediately after two meetings had been held in the relevant committees, one of which had been called by the institutions. It is clear that there is no similarity between that act of law and the act of law that was interrupted in 2013, within a few hours, the operation of the public service broadcaster under the pretext of its reassurance, with a true and real aim, however, to satisfy the requirements of the Troika and the sale of digital frequencies. In execution of this purpose, thousands of employees lost their job overnight and offered as numbers fired at the monumental altar, while digital frequencies were sold out against a lentil plate in private interests. This resulted in one of the greatest scandals of the time of the memorials. The know-how will be remembered that in 2012, the pioneer in new ERT technologies stopped buying transmitters and infrastructure for the digital era that was coming. Crime was premeditated and well planned. ERT's closed. Following a photo competition for digital frequencies, without the public service broadcaster that is legally entitled to a specific space. There was only one candidate, one legal person, one company, who owned the private channels. The digital frequencies were awarded to this company instead of 18.5m euros, while they had been assessed, as Thanasis Petrakos explained just now, 715m euros. Indeed, the price, because it was considered excessive - I do not know why, let anyone who wants - agreed to be paid in instalments and something was not happening in any of the favoured states: the same company should be a provider of programme content and network provider, and NERIT should pay around EUR 1.5 million every year to make use of the network. We have heard today and yesterday from the Qualified Opposition that nothing has happened. We have heard them defend private channels, which, during the election periods, unequivocally and unselfishly leave their programme to show the parties' advertising and receive interviews and that for this purpose they must be cleared up by their debts, because otherwise their profits have been reduced and there will be redundancies. Is that why creditors are so insisting on the release of redundancies, while large businesses in our country have remained minimal? Should they not pay their licence and stay with the 1989 provisional licence? Should the hundreds of euros not be controlled without guarantees? We have just heard from Mr Vorides that the bill that comes to the vote does nothing at all, simply changes the name from NERIT to ERT. But a little later he informed us that today's bill is a unilateral energy, because we hire fired, etc. Let's decide which of the two is today's bill. The misfortune of their arguments proves that the bill is on the right track. It is once again running the public service broadcaster, restoring the injustice caused by its closure, restoring constitutional legitimacy. The contracts of indefinite duration of redundancies of 11 June and workers return to their jobs, while workers with fixed-term contracts are specifically mobilised. It is characteristic that the bodies invited to the relevant committees of Parliament were expressed in their overwhelming majority positive for the bill. ERT is back here and only the pathogens of the past are left behind. Only the sinful ERT of the client regime, of the workers - ghosts - is left behind. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] From now on, its smooth operation is a continuous course. But it's a target. Insurance systems have already been set in the bill to defend it. This is the case with transparency in the economic and the commitment to balanced budgets, with the effective control of the economic events of previous years, in order to prevent impunity from becoming a state of lawlessness, with the reduction of the joint and external producers who behind them concealed a great deal of fame, by abolishing the privileges of its officials. It is also achieved in the way it is managed, since for the final appointment of the administration a broader parliamentary majority will be decided, while the workers involved in the administration will be elected by secret ballot, with the first social control introduced. Thus, the new ERT will be able to perform its constitutional role, that of objective information rather than propaganda, the social and cultural role that has a public broadcasting role with respect to the principles of objectivity, impartiality, equality in the transmission of information and news, the quality of the programme, respect for human values and its constitutionally guaranteed rights. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] So, we need to see in the eyes of the violator of the ERT's "Music Ensembles" tears of joy and excitement and leave behind the tears of the bitter that we saw in June 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u96	Thank you Mrs Panagiota Kozobol - Amanatidis. The floor is Mr. Zesis Zannas, followed by Mr. Socrates Famelos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is indeed impressive that sometimes history itself takes its revenge. During today's debate it has been "black" on the "DIGEA" brand, leaving Attica uncovered. I think, in fact, that it is also a response to Mr Voridis and his objections to the reliability of the private provider, where the contract which he has signed obliges him to maintain a spare system during technical damage. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, today the debate on the reopening of the Greek Broadcasting, on the reopening of the public information service, which will be a core of independent and valid information and a pillar of civilization in the country and internationally. We are talking about the reopening of ERT which kept the memory and contact of thousands of Greek relatives alive with the social, political and cultural reality in our country. There was the radio company of the Greek navy and the eminent soldier. He highlighted the creative spiritual powers of the place when they did not find a way out in today’s merchandise landscape. You will allow me to make a brief revert to the recent story of the closure of the ERT. From June 2013 until today, ERT workers show us and show us what it means to participate, fight and insist on valid independent journalism and information. Resisting to its closure, they undertook to manage it in extremely difficult conditions and were faced with the repression forces and with the then government flouting them. The Greek people, however, at every step of their lives, were there, from mass guards to grand concentrations of solidarity. Its course under the management of its employees was a model of self-organisation, an alternative and a replacement information centre for thousands of our fellow citizens at the time of implementing the most harsh anti-grassroots commemorative policy. ERT's dismissals have not forgotten their duty toward the Greek people and their release from the Memorandum Limitations. They took care of the ERT programme - despite the difficulties - to reach in alternative ways almost every corner of Greece. ERT workers were on the way along with thousands of citizens to overthrow the policy of monuments, to overthrow austerity, to democracy. The black in the ERT did not pass. The 'black' in society did not pass. Self-government and terrorism have not passed. The 'black' was postponed to the elections on 25 January. The Greek society resisted and changed page. Ladies and gentlemen, the reopening of the ERT is an important step for many reasons: why will a body which has been and will be an adversary to the private media, an agency that is facing access to information as a constitutionally guaranteed right for every citizen by putting the cue high on the provision of objective and impartial information. Because it will once again function as a body that, since its establishment, has promoted cultural production and the artistic and intellectual creation of the place to the edge, an entity that is part of the historical memory of the Greek people, because a serious injustice will be corrected toward ERT workers made redundant in a night. Because a serious injustice against the Greek people will be rectified, who in one night saw the fall of "black" and closed a great part of the country's modern history, because as we recognize ERT. The reopening of ERT is a victory of the Greek people at a difficult time. It shows - unlike previous governments - that a government that respects its commitments has nothing to fear from objective and independent information, because every independent state has, not only the right but also the obligation to maintain an independent public broadcasting system. ERT is asked to contribute to the formation of a new ethos in domestic journalism, to be charming in the fight against opacity and interlocutory, to manipulate and discipline the new generation, to be reborn without the practices and sins that have been charged to it in the past by those who have allegedly closed it on account of their own crimes. Faced with the moderate strife that is speculating against public frequencies and the Greek government and the deliberate anarchy of the broadcasting landscape, the reopening of the ERT comes to define the beginning of a new, transparent and fair way of sharing and using radio frequencies and demonstrates the determination of the new government to reach the end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Colleagues and colleagues, these days and while the Greek Government has undertaken the difficult task of negotiating, not only has the great European interests, it is all the big domestic interests and the media. It is attempting to create a climate of terrorism in the Greek society with the center of the attack on these private instruments. They don't scare us. It's not about the paraphilis and the mud they throw, because the lie has short feet. We are, however, concerned with the serious lack of ethics and a code of journalistic ethics. We are concerned about the terrorisation of the Greek people by local and foreign media. We are concerned about the unprecedented creation of a climate of fear in Greek society in order to undermine the negotiation and implementation of the government's programme. They are annoyed by the government's policy, because it is being ruptured with the tolerability and complicity in the media. The vote on the ERT bill is in the context of our understanding of ensuring that all citizens have access to social goods. Access to culture and information is a social asset as important as health, education, energy and water. We have samples of writing on how to move to them too with strong public bodies, control and transparency. The vote in favour of the ERT bill, the humanitarian crisis bill, to restart the economy, clearly shows that focusing on the implementation of our programme is the only way out of the crisis. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting the words that have raised my generation through public radio programmes. "The people of Lilipoupolis have now risen again. With the Mayor Charch did not see a white day." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u98	Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor and Mrs Tahiau Christina is prepared. Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a comment on the environment of the debate. We are talking for the second day about an important bill on information issues. However, I cannot comment on the characteristics of the Parliamentary Body that the National Representation has. Mr President, I think that you will also help me to take some measures - and as a new Member I say this - because it is not encouraging the image of Members' participation. I shall not refer to parties and I shall not dissociate myself from colleagues, but the Greek Parliament must become a parliament, rather than a debate, for political reasons, for the five-minute publicity of each one on television. As we speak of television, I think that the debate on public service broadcasting makes sense that it goes beyond the debate on what is radio and what is television, it goes beyond the map of radio frequencies. Besides, frequencies - you know - have the characteristic not to know borders, cross walls and enter and form consciences. This debate, therefore, is much more concerned with the issues of democracy, which concerns the question of the right of access to information and culture. I do not think we have managed to avoid - and it is not a bad thing - dealing with the central dilemmas of politics, that is to say, dealing with the basic question that is being raised today in our country: If our country can and will want to return to the path of democracy, on the path of equality, democracy, progress or whether it will remain away from the European debate and European ideals and in some way whether it can help restore the European environment in the debate on democracy. I feel that yesterday, in particular, listening to Mrs Buddhism and other colleagues, it is obvious what the two lines are. There is the view that we need to change page, put the man first, take Greece a step above, as it corresponds to every generation and every nation. However, there is also the view that we should be subject to 'these verbs persuasive' to lenders, to pursue the defeat of the government at all costs, regardless of whether this is linked even to the national interest. There has also been a strong question - a concern - on the part of Mrs Vultesis - had been raised many times earlier by the New Democracy - as to whether there is a national responsibility, if all parties support the national interest. I don't want and I don't think we need to talk about scripts, I think there's a possibility for everyone to really take their place in what's going on in our country. Because this question has been raised, I am simply saying that if the country's interest is above all, if there is a patriotic duty to everyone, I think it would be worth hearing from the Qualified Opposition what position it takes to place the President of the European People's Party, Mr Webber, who formally stated that he thinks it is very right to discuss Grexit: I think we need your position and we haven't heard it, nor have you separated your position. And you haven't been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u100	Freedom of opinion all have. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u101	Of course, I would expect Mr. Kedicoglou to be here. I would finally like to hear what the New Democracy thinks about and about ERT, because we did not hear that. However, I think that it offends the debate and turns Greece for many years back if Mrs Vultesis thinks that, in discussing ERT, the question is 'Tell us: How many do we want to appoint'. Mrs Vultesis, the way in which you were ideologically and politically overthrown in Greece of Postpopulation, the way you read the policy, was chosen by the Greek people to change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u102	How do you know how I was raised? You're lost!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u103	So, we'd invite you, too, to suggest that you should...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u104	Tell me where you know how I was raised?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u105	Unfortunately, Mrs. Vulge...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u106	Mrs. Vulture, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u107	It is for me, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u108	You can ask the floor later and I'll give it to you for a minute. But let Mr. Femello finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u109	It is obsessed, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u110	Mrs Vulture, I think the best way to read in the Minutes is to read what everyone said. We do not need to look for another source of information. However, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the staff, I believe that the state of the post-multiple parties, the parties of bipartisanism, which have linked politics only to the satisfaction of micro-political and micro-participatory interests, and only by the normalisation of 'the other' it has not only brought people to ruin, it is not just society but the parties themselves and the political system themselves. Because he enslaved each other in a retreat of politics now and in ethics. The effort that has been made, ladies and gentlemen, by the draft legislation is not just to get away from the ERT black. It is true that regarding the "black" of June 2013, beyond the personal registration that has been done to each of us, beyond whether we served together with colleagues in Thessaloniki, Angelakis, the Army, in Chortiatis - regardless of where each of us served in those days - the debate we have in front of us today is about a new field of collective claiming, which I say took the truth into form after the "black". We did not all have the appreciation that was required in the public service broadcasting, in this public service, perhaps because we had left it to be very low, the politicians first of all, as well as society. So the question is that today we are not just having the debate on whether public service broadcasting is useful. We are talking through an environment that has been shaped in the last two years, after many struggles, by many efforts to re-establish the value of this public good. And you know, because the fight for the public ERT gave it to those who were "outside" from the ERT, that is, those who had no broadcasts, those who had no view, those who had no view, those who had not appointed anyone at the ERT, I think that this debate is of greater value, because it shows that society, the left, the movements can fight for something that is not theirs, for something that others are, for which they are not of personal interest, but have an interest. Unfortunately, the closure of the ERT was not just a choice to reduce costs, but a choice to leave in the interest of others more space, such as private canals, private frequencies, private management. It was done to leave broadcasting and information to leave more space to private propaganda, which we still see how it works. So you see what the difference of interests is. The interest of many without winning anything leads us to keep the ERT open, to put it back on the public political map. The interest of the few and the propaganda, the limitation of information and culture leads us to having the salt of private frequencies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thessaloniki's society these twenty-two months of struggle realised the need for public broadcasting. However, it also created the possibility of having self-managed tools, but also to express a much stronger voice that ERT 3, but also all regional channels, are necessary as a breath of democracy, as oxygen for our country. I think that what needs to be enshrined in today's debate is that access to a democratic, decentralised public service broadcasting must be a constitutional basis for our country. That is exactly what we have to choose today. And we must opt for a public service broadcasting that is sustainable at low fees. I cannot understand the concern of the PASOK Parliamentary Representative about what will happen 'if we go in'. I guess that's how you used to read public life. We will not go in, because there will be rules of democracy and transparency in our own management. I think the most important thing we have to discuss today is how to open public service broadcasting to new functions, to culture, to science, to innovation, to self-government, to decentralisation, to production, to youth, to Depopulate Hellenism. It is that we should call again all these creative forces to return to Greece, to go back to the public space. This is the culture, if you like, of the new Greece, that is the culture of the new effort. Because, ladies and gentlemen, since the workers have kept ERT open, this bill has a responsibility to keep it publicly, to keep it democratic, to keep it decentralised, to keep it for all Greeks and not for the parties. I think that this is the task to be relayed as a culture, as an ethos. I also think that this is a common basis for everyone and we can invest in this common vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Felle. Mrs Vulture, I will give you the floor for a minute. But I'd like to say something and take it into consideration if you want. I think and I appreciate that Mr Famello's report was not personal to you, but to your resignation. However, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u112	Madam President, thank you. He mentioned my name many times. I would not, however, take the floor simply because my colleague had an uncertainty about the way I was raised. I won't go into details. I just believe that few of the SYRIZA have been reversed under the conditions that I have been revived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u113	Politics, he meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u114	But look, Mr. Comrade. Like Mr. Tsipras said yesterday, Mrs. Merkel before she met her, she blamed her. Now she likes her. Well, if we get to know each other, you might like me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Buddhism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u116	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Femmelle, please. You do the same as Mrs Vultésis did before. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-eight students and students and four teachers from the Private General School "Hellenic University". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Valavani, to present a legislative improvement. Mrs Valvaani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. The words ‘and shall refer to the end of the term’ in this bill after the words ‘issued within one month of the expiry of that period’ shall be added to the words ‘and shall be inserted at the end of that period’ and the second paragraph of the provision shall be deleted. I shall therefore read the order just as it is to be clear what remains. At the end of Article 15 of the Treaty. a new subparagraph shall be added: ‘In a decision of the Minister of Finance, issued within one month of the expiry of the above deadline and in respect of the period of expiry, the date of one-off repayment of part of the basic debt under the terms and conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article may be extended for a period of up to one month’. This is an authorised provision to the Deputy Minister of Finance, so that he can extend within the next month and for up to a month this part of the provision for the up to a hundred instalments of the law on the relaunching of the economy which ended last midnight and has already been electronically closed. In other words, it enables a partial payment of more than EUR 200, that is, 10 times the lowest instalment of EUR 20, to be made out not only of the corresponding amount of capital, but also of the corresponding amount of increases, interest, etc. The electronic submission of statements without an advance payment of up to 100 doses and the other execution of this operation, which is the total payment, which we would, of course, prefer, as well as more than those who have preferred it so far, continue. It's about 50 million with a total repayment of one-off. These have so far come from the banks, but it has to be something more to do with reality. These two, then, continue to be normal. I mean, if anyone wants to pay it off with everything predicted to be erased, it's done. If anyone wants to get in from two doses up to a hundred, they can also come out. But, until this bill becomes law and after it has been approved by Parliament and published in the FEK, it cannot function because there was no provision in original Law 4321/2015 to the Minister for Article 15, i.e. partial payment or advance, as they call it, or partial payment of a one-off payment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u119	What is the number of this legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Theochari, please. I don't want you to answer that, Mrs. Valavani. After thanking the Minister for the explanation he gave, I would ask her to submit the legislative improvement, and I would ask him then to be distributed to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u121	Mrs. Christina Tachiau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to begin with this 'whoever is not with us is against us'. The criticism of the "regeneration" of the ERT, as written by the "SAGI" today, does not mean that anyone who does it is in favour of "black" does not mean that anyone who makes it does not want to have another public television does not mean any controversy. I would like to point out this from the outset. I would also like to refer to what has been completely mistreated, that they are taking the lead in the'regeneration' of ERT' of former employees who are MPs and who will legislate, vote for a law. They took the lead in making this law and this law favours them. Is that possible and going through a business like something natural? Is it possible to legislate on something that will favour us first? Is there no question of morality here, ladies and gentlemen, any issue of conflict of interest at all? I think that this is the most 'carabina' case of conflicts of interest, Members thus benefiting clearly from a law. Do not tell me 'We were ERT workers and what else we can do'. I'm sorry, but your profession is not an ERT worker. Your profession is a journalist. That's the profession. Members who will vote for this draft law that will become state law first - I think they should not vote, they should abstain, but they should commit themselves to resigning from the re-entry. It is unacceptable that it is inconsistent with any political morality that something so 'carabinato' is happening and that it is completely inconsistent. I'm continuing with the restoration of injustices. Yes, sir. The 'black' - we have said it before - has been one of the most authoritarian movements in recent years. It was a huge injustice, which was not worthy of the Greek people and a genuine sign of incapacity, but also of authoritarianism in governance. As long as we can't get a class, we can turn this place off. It's an injustice for the whole country. Let's talk a little bit more about injustice. Isn't it unfair to acquire a civil servant's status as a person who covered his permanent and constant need to make a two-hour broadcast once a week on the radio? It's unfair. Isn't it unfair for the children of civil servants to be made public because the holes in the ERT allowed that to happen? I think it's unfair. Isn't it unfair that most journalists should be upgraded to editors without considering how many editors are in order to have so many editors, because this would balance the cuts due to a memorandum of money? I think it's unfair. Isn't it unfair that there's no jobless, but with the payroll normally every fortnight at the bank? It's unfair. Isn't it unfair that there is not the slightest sense of sovereignty, but the work of each worker in such creative space depends on a generally good party relationship with the chief and directors, or with the protector, or with the party factor? I'm sorry, but it's unfair. These injustices come with this bill to be restored, i.e. to return to their pretext. Or not? These and so many, I imagine, because there are too many inconsistencies between the explanatory statement which is the philosophy of the law and the law itself. Let us say, in the explanatory statement, that we are talking about a social mission by the public service broadcaster, about constitutional harmonisation, about the restoration of injustices in relation to the fired, the creation of a competitive body, and also of uninterrupted continuity and independence of the body. However, the rules in the individual articles set out quite the opposite. What is certain is the absolute party dependence of the "ERT S.A." by the Prime Minister and a Minister, the "Minister of the Canadian", as we say. The ban on ERT’s competitiveness, which becomes entirely state-owned, and the alleged lifting of injustices leads to more injustices. Let us also say that this is where the door opens for wage claims, for late payments and for other voters, who will be re-entered by other laws. I now come to the other point: we hear about mistresses all the time. Midwifes are being denounced. Yes, very good. Why don't you come and do something? Who will take care of the regulation of frequency permits?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u123	There's a bill coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u124	We ask you for the opportunity you have had with the same law to regulate the issue of frequency licences. A prerequisite, of course, is the question of regulating the issues of the National Broadcasting Council - or not? - which you refer to in its constitutional dimension. Its composition is problematic and illegal - the Council of State has decided on this, that it does not have the legal form - and any action is offended or could be offended. It is necessary to raise the issue of the setting-up of a new National Broadcasting Council. We in the river say that we will support this effort of the government, as long as it comes. While public television is necessary, it is more necessary to be independent and self-interest, which in the bill seems nowhere. The Committees on Social Control - which can intervene in the contents of the programme - are set up outside the pillars. This is an unambiguous attempt of party armies organised by the board of directors, appointed. Can we talk about centralization in the face of the CEO? Our rapporteur has already said that. The formalities are bad. What certainly needs to be done in a renewed public service broadcaster is to have a central political, information channel that enriches its programme with films and series and a second channel - for example ERT3 as it was - regional and local in character based in Thessaloniki - because it needs Northern Greece, the region - and with a programme mainly dedicated to the Greek region, complementary and not competitive, information programme to that of the first competitive one. But what does 'information' mean and who is offering it? You know, there are countries in which the authors are required to have studied the subject matter of the report that they cover on public television. The author of the judicial report should be legal. I think that is self-evident in other countries. The author of the cultural report should have studied Art History. There are countries where postgraduate studies are required. The demands of society in information are constantly growing. We are living in the age of 'wiki'. We must accept an update, which will be more than any citizen can find on his own. And that must first - first of all - start on public television. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. We should perhaps be dealing with this at this stage, starting with public television. Citizens' participation will be restricted to social control councils, as they refer to instruments, while the new trend is for universities and schools to participate in experimental radios. All around the world, this is happening. The European Social Fund, which I often invoke, finances such actions for groups of citizens to combat unemployment, which do not even exist here. In conclusion, I would like to say that the bill does not regulate channel licences, we do not deal with the composition of the National Broadcasting Council. We are not concerned about what 'information' means. We are reintroducing the injustices of the past and expanding them. Another chance goes for a loser! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Tahiau. Before I give the floor to Mr Kurebbe, I would like to say that we are committed to closing the debate at the beginning at 13 noon today and to opening the debate on the articles of the bill. For this reason, I would like to ask those Members of Parliament who are in the Chamber to agree with each other whether they would like to give a second answer. I would ask the rapporteurs to do the same. For some time the Members will have to stop talking if we have to close down at 13.00 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u126	The MPs speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u128	I agree with you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u129	Look, Mr. Philly, I, too, have this perception to speak with the MPs. But when I am asked by the Parliamentary Representatives for Dentality and also by the rapporteurs of the Legislative Bill for Dentality, I have to give it. Please don't waste time now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u130	We solved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u131	How did you solve it, Mr. Philly?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, the parliamentary representatives have now been consulted and we have said that we do not want to take a second line at the outset. Then we'll talk about the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u133	Let's go to the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u134	That's exactly what I said. I did not know that, and I should have asked you, because Mr Theocharis previously asked for the floor. Therefore, parliamentarians do not speak. For the rapporteurs now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u135	I'd like secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u136	If one of us starts, he'll want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u137	A three-minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u138	Some things have been said, Mr Georgiadis, which I would like to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u139	You'll tell them about the articles this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Georgiadis, please. Does a three-minute cover the rapporteurs who want to speak? To leave time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u141	If the rapporteurs speak, the parliamentary representatives should also speak. Let the Members speak, and this afternoon we are talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u142	Pick them up and you'll talk about it in total this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u143	We will give a little more time then to the rapporteurs in the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u145	So, by about three minutes, we'll go with Members' speeches properly. Mr. Kurebes has the floor and Mrs. Jufi will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 11 June 2014 ERT's sacked workers called on the people to defend democracy once again, the constitutional right to information, the first anniversary of "Black". We were invited to stand up in their struggle to leave the "black" from the ERT, to leave the "black" from our lives. A year ago, on June 11, 2013, the then coup d'état shut down the public television coup d'état. Shortly thereafter she sent the MATs to complete her work against the workers and the thousands of people who defended the right to information, whatever information, even that of the then party ERT that the former governments made in image and likeness. It was a thrilling support for the world, because it knew and knows that the answer to poor ERT is not the closure of it but it is the good pluralist, democratic, public broadcasting. The Greek society reacted, because once again it was accepted by the Memorandum of Understanding that the country was under attack of democracy. Greece's voice went out to the world. The contact of the Depopulated Hellenism was violently dismantled through broadcasting with the country. Two years after June 11, 2015, injustice will be restored. The black anniversary will be a day of remembrance, because such actions first of all "wrong" democracy. Those who have the chance to hear regional stations that have remained open, such as the ERA Patras, which the people and the workers have kept open, know that the thirst of the world to speak freely and to be informed objectively is still unclean. This is why he expects not the law to be passed today but the reopening of ERT, television stations, radio stations in Athens and Thessaloniki and the regional stations that highlighted the problems of local communities. Another example is the ERT Open, which for twenty-two months now gives the struggle for objective information to the people. Blowly, the democracies in the democracies of the collapsed political system of power. Two thousand workers told us that they were just looking to satisfy the appetites of the troika and the domestic interests. Except this black page for the country ends. Actually, it ended three months ago. It was a matter of time for democracy to be restored and for information. Because this government respects its commitments to the Greek people, which, of course, cannot be understood by the representatives of the old political system, as they cannot understand the logic of freedom from party broadcasting, that a public service can operate without customer relations and interests. They don't know how it's done. You don't know how it's done. You haven't even tried it. It's a matter of opinion. It can never be that anyone who has a flag of neoliberal logic puts the public interest above micro-participatory purposes at the top of all ways to reproduce this unsuccessful recipe anymore. Because you know very well that this bill is the beginning of a series of legislative interventions that will give order to the broadcasting system, you are rushing to defend in advance those who have supported and still support your policy. Looks like all you're interested in is not paying off their debts to the government. "They have suffered a crisis...", said the rapporteur of the Officerial Representation, "...so if you force them to pay, they will be made redundant". Extortion by an oral representative of the Greek Parliament in Parliament and indeed against the interests of the people, or does it seem to me? We have not, of course, seen the same interest for so many years on your part in a number of workers and small and medium-sized businessmen, who have now lost their jobs five years, under the weight of the memoranda, who have closed their shops, have been in danger of losing their homes. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has been instructed by the Greek people to take the country out of the deadlocks of the memorials, to end, at last, with the client state, with the logic of the 'logues', with the logic of our 'children', in the sense that you said to us: 'But who do you want to appoint? Tell us." We don't want to appoint anyone. We want to restore democracy, we want to end the injustices. We are determined to bring this work to fruition. In this crisis, therefore, which is not only limited to the economy but has affected culture, entertainment, language, intellectual artistic creation, public broadcasting is coming to play its part in reversing this terrible situation and helping to keep society on its feet. The new ERT is coming to support society and also to be supported by it. In this difficult effort to rebuild the country at a time when knowledge is necessary but is specifically directed and serving economic interests, public television can be supported by independent information, education of the world of work, an objective presentation of Greek production potential and prospects, the dissemination of information where neoliberal political services are unable to reach. He will, because the government's political will is a given one. It is a given, because it knows no other way than that of truth, transparency, democracy, constant consultation with citizens. I know that all this sounds very much to you and that you do not believe in your ears, ladies and gentlemen of the old two-party system. But you do a little patience, because soon you won't believe in your eyes, because the party customer logic of Grueza that you've been building for so many years is the time to break down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Kurebe. Mrs Merope Jufi has the floor and Mr Nasos Athanasios is ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin by saying that, with the closure of the ERT, the public service broadcaster with its television and radio, in a night by means of a legislative act, which has never been ratified in this House, the opportunity was given to a large number of sections of our people to understand, in addition to the hard neoliberal policy that lived on their side and the hideous anti-democratic and authoritarian face of the Memorandum of Independence at that time. This has happened at a critical phase of the reduction of the mobilisations, so that our people have been given the opportunity and the opportunity to come out of their homes and to express their solidarity with the thousands of people made redundant, because the 'Black' of the ERT began without any possibility of returning, despite the existing delusions that still exist, to the defeat of those parties and those responsible for the destruction suffered by our people over the past five years. At that time, a growing majority of the people began to be created, which understood the correctness of our political proposal and decided to trust us with power. Our people also trusted us in our proposed policy, but also because they wanted and hoped for a broadcaster in the public sector, which would provide him with an elementary unmanageable information, as a fundamental counterweight to the derogating wholehearted attack by the private media. Also, as a possibility of resorting to a different cultural stigma, which shows, even minority, quality artistic production and not the extremist traded sub-culture derivatives with which the private media were bombing us daily. The people wanted an ERT accessible to everyone and those who did not have access, because of their stay, to other media and to our compatriots who had been hosted in all parts of the horizon. She wanted an ERT that, despite her maladies, could have valuable television time for "Educational Television" or to show Parliament's meetings, so also the appearance of opinions that are difficult to reach for the citizen. She wanted an ERT that with a few of her journalists she could at that difficult time make public his problems and take a step toward the people who were mobilizing. However, the pieces of this offer tried to silence themselves and instead, based on its maliciousness, those who had built them, tried to systematically depreciate her work, to make it easier to close it. But why did they decide the "black" to the ERT at this point in time? Was it why they wanted an ERT in the image and uniformity of the private media or simply totally obeying the requirements of the government at that time? It was that, too, but not just. Mass redundancies have been applied by means of a force, as part of the'shock and awe' doctrine, to cause silence, fear and silence of mobilisations. Of course, because at the same time the public's right to digital frequencies was dismantled and granted at a low price to private providers. On the other hand, we with this bill, under no circumstances do we come to reward the bad texts of the previous period, which our rapporteur, Agathia Kyritsis, very much described yesterday as an emblematic figure in that period. I am sorry today, because there has been an attempt to reap her attitude. On the contrary. We are coming to keep the positives of the long journey to the existence of ERT - and they also exist - and to solve the problems that were caused by the customer-type treatment of ERT by the previous governors. Our starting point is the idea that the state has a duty to ensure the objective and equitable transmission of information, news and products of speech and art. So, with concrete and clear provisions, we ensure pluralism in the administration and control of the functioning of the new ERT, both with the composition of the board of directors and with the agreement of principles between ERT and the Ministers for Culture, State and Finance. We are committed to the new administration of ERT to take concrete measures to make the new body a step towards free expression for all those who have been prevented so far, to ensure the unrestricted access of SMEs, of the inhabitants of mountainous and island regions, of the Depopulated Hellenism and of all kinds of minorities to information and information. And all the above, of course, contrary to the previous government's practice, which, apart from having released the public's right to digital frequencies, did not make sure that this agreement also protected the right of the inhabitants of mountainous, island and remote regions to information and entertainment, since it had no obligation to cover it. These regions have also been mentioned by other speakers. Among these are my place of origin, which is the Municipality of Zagori and of course many other areas. Finally, for the first time, we are introducing something which is self-evident, the social control councils, with which the non-transparency regime is stopped and citizens can check and help improve the programme produced. We are doing all this with respect for public finances and respect for the Greek people. We are establishing balanced budgets and fees that do not cause our people, which, as has been said by previous Members, were 'protected' in the previous situations. We also provide for an exemption from payment of the reimbursement fee for vulnerable groups. And since I referred to the reward fee, I will close with a reference to those who were malicious - at least before the closure of the ERT - talking about it. I will say that it is one of the smaller in the European Union and I will say that the Greek people may not have paid a fee for private channels, but it has paid them many times by refusing to pay the taxes they had to pay or pay the fines, by the loans received by the media, which the Greek people have not paid and which have been charged. Also, especially these media in recent years have played a role in advancing the extreme neoliberal policy, which has removed from a significant part of our people a very important part of his income and has led to large parts of poverty and impoverishment. We are therefore legislating on the right of society to reliable information, independent of state intervention - and this is what is to be done - but also from the influence of private interests as a first step towards entering the broadcasting landscape, since it is known that a large part of the power of the sovereign local and international elites, in addition to their economic power, is the ability to hold the media networks and thus be able to manipulate the people against their interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u150	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u151	Mr Venizelos asked for the floor. Wait a minute, Mr. Venizelo. I had announced that I would give the floor to Mr. Athanasios. You want him to lead, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u152	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u153	Good. Here, Mr Athanasios, you have the floor for seven minutes, and then Mr Venizelos will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u154	You'd better be posted after Mr. Venizelos, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tragakis said 'better after Mr Venizelos'. In fact, from the point of view of view and hearing, I was better off talking after Mr Venizelos, but you know, Mr Tragakis and Madam President, yesterday I was about to say that this is not a House of ordinary Members, but a House of Ministers and Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u156	We fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u157	I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to take this opportunity to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to speak on behalf of the Group of the In any case, Madam President, some of the New Democracy has shown here today that they are excellent lawyers. Someone said that an excellent lawyer, a law graduate, is the one who talks charmingly without knowing what he's talking about. Others worked for forty years on TV, Mr. Alivizatos draws up a television project. Others broke their legs to introduce what we now call a 'living show' to Greece, Mr. Voridis talks about the organization of Greek television. I shall speak, after all, at the end of this small speech, the convergence and consensus between us. Television in Greece is a scandal. They do not see the scandal, only those who feed, get rich in this scandal. First of all, there is a lot of money on television. It is through television that there are lion agreements at the expense of the public. Because it's money a lot, some people thought they'd turn the scandal into an institution. But this scandal can be brought to an end with a policy of three simple steps towards a common sense. The first step has already been taken with the bill we are considering today. This is a good bill. I say it as a professional who accepted a lot of calls, a lot of pressures, to present or - be careful! - to exclude political persons from the small screen. The mere fact that ERT can also be a network and content provider for digital television demonstrates the government's rationalisation of the current television field. Some pains - I know - not in Ethiopia mostly, but some outside of Ethiopia, as the scalpel touches cancer. But, ladies and gentlemen, is that not clear? To date, cancer was happy and the patient was unhappy. Time to reverse things! The least example is that the ERT digital platform will be an alternative - and I speak of those from the province - to the regional stations that have been caught in the expensive private 'DIGEA' platform. Let them take this into account. Some people said ERT was a sinner. I want to ask a simple question to impress and avoid saying more. Who appointed the president to the ERT at a fee of EUR 379,600 a year? Wasn't it you, gentlemen of the New Democracy? And I don't want to say any more. You say what you say. My modesty claims that today the history of ERT is restored. Repairs the story written by Sakis Peponis and Odysseus Elytis - he was a member of the Board of Directors of ERT. Rehabilitate the story written by Dimitris Horne and Paul Bakoyannis. The story of Takis Lambrias - and my benefactor - and George Romanos, Manos Hadjidakis and James Campanellis. The story that Yannis Lampshas and Thodoris Chalatsis wrote. How come the dwarfs succeeded the giants? You've noticed the names. Most of them belong to the New Democracy. Mr. Tragaki, near Takis Lambria when he was hosting the airport of Greek Sir Hugh Green. How did you lose what was achieved then? Who from New Democracy did not respect its history?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u158	Well, I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u159	The first step was taken, then, but it will be canceled if it is not the second one concerning the game with the frequency licenses. It's not my expression. On 26 October 2008, Kathiemeni had this title in an article by Vangelis Mandravelis: ‘The Government of New Democracy has been granted five extensions to the temporary operation of broadcasters without ever being granted authorisations. The country closes - they then wrote, in 2008 - in the first 20 years with the broadcasters emitting with temporary permits or temporary operating arrangements.’ And the conclusion of the article: "Not unfairly many speak of a political choice so that the media can be hostages of the respective government. Well, we're concise. The first step is this draft law, which, in my view, will be lost if it is not the second one to grant licences. We are now coming to the third step that, if not done, the two previous ones will be lost. This is where I'm gonna start becoming very consensual.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u160	Do I have a minute, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u161	You have just one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. The third step, which, if not lost, is a great leap towards liberalising not only television but also the market from the eagles. I am referring to mere facts that have been confirmed in practice. Again from a newspaper post, on November 3, 2005, by "ELETERTERROTYPIA": "From the Prime Minister's threat of pimping to a strict law on basic shareholders we reached an unconditional retreat of the government which was made in the urgent procedure to limit fiasco impressions. The government finally voted for an anti-constitutional law, in line with the European Commission's recommendations. In the present case, it is clear from the Court's case-law that, in the present case, the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on an assessment of the compatibility of the aid in question with the internal market. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm trying to reduce the time while I can. I would therefore like to close my consensual proposal to the opposition and to the government, Minister. To counterpopulation first. I read in "BIMA" on November 18, 2014: "The main shareholder issue reintroduced by New Democracy in accordance with the constitutional revision axes, presented to the relevant party committee of New Democracy its head - and now President of the Republic - Prokopis Pavlopoulou. According to the New Democracy itself, it intends to restore to the constitutional review the provisions on key shareholder under Article 14(9) of the Constitution’. Then that was not possible. The European Commission has not left us. But, according to Mr Pavlopoulou, this policy has been vindicated. Mr. Pavlopoulou invokes the subsequent judgment of the European Court of Justice in 2008 according to which the law of the Government of Karamanlis was vindicated in its overwhelming majority, except for the point of relatives. Well, dare, go ahead. It will really be a consensual step towards improving radio-television in Greece. My proposal to the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Athanasios, soon your proposal to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u164	It always happens to me, Madam President! In your proposals to the institutions to include paragraph 1 of Article 14 of the Constitution. Kind of ironic, huh? In particular, to the representative of the European Commission, say 'You who are now swinging the finger on us, once you have not let us clean our stable'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mr Evangelos Venizelos, President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion as a political initiative is obviously linked to the general framework of government policy, with the country's progress. Without such a framework, there is no principle of the bill on which to discuss. Public TV is an institution...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u167	Why, Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Venizelo, stop, please. Mrs. Bajas, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u169	Rescind her in class, that's not things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u170	Ms. Vaguea, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u171	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u172	Respect to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Loverdo, please. Mrs. Baja, please very much, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u174	Madam President, this is a systematic matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u175	Mrs. Vaguea, we know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u176	You who are a noble man and with principles must not allow that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u177	All right, Mrs. Wagon. Thank you very much for the remark. Mr President, we have no time and you have started your placement at the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat my phrase. The draft law on public television as a political initiative is obviously linked to the general framework of government policy, with the country's progress. Without such a framework, this legislative initiative has no beginning. We all agree that public television is a constitutional institution. Of course I was impressed by the fact that the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, chose to give the first big TV interview following the elections at a private television station. A great success for the station, a great success for the distinguished journalist who received this interview, but something means that the Prime Minister chose a private station. So this yesterday's interview with Mr. Tsipras is, in my opinion, a major political event that at least I was very concerned by as a Greek citizen. Last night, at the time of Mr Tsipras' interview, the great political event was the deterioration and frustration of the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, the reshaping of the government's negotiating team, which they have all realised is a signal for the political will of the government and the Prime Minister to proceed with a compromise, in an agreement. A Prime Minister, however, who enters the final straight of a difficult and delicate negotiation and seeks a good solution for his country, does not say such things at this time in his first post-election interview. He doesn't interview to attack their international interlocutors. It does not open up internal fronts, cancelling any traces and any possibility of consensus, insulting the leaders of the political parties in the opposition and, in my opinion, does not raise such a dangerous question of referendum. Yesterday's interview with Mr Tsipras, in my opinion, shows a lack of openness and political courage and, above all, shows a complete impossibility to reach a decision. It is still not the ambiguity and the broadcast of contradictory messages as a negotiating method, it could be said, but deep ambiguity and inability to end up in a political strategy. And the oscillation will continue, I'm afraid, until the moment of impact on the absolute dead end. First of all, I think Mr Tsipras reminded us that there was a misunderstanding about what happened around Mr Varoufakis. Some felt that this was an act of soundness and an indication of readiness for an agreement. Others have said that this is a humiliating compliance with outward suggestions, which has never been made to any government and any Prime Minister. But the truth is much simpler. There was never Mr. Varoufakis. He always did it and Mr. Tsipras himself. Mr. Tsipras chose, imposed, encouraged, supported and politically guided Mr. Varoufakis, who may add his style, his perfume, but political manipulations were and it is the Prime Minister's decision. Even the notion of creative ambiguity, which was encouraged but denounced yesterday by Mr. Tsipras, is an invention of the Prime Minister himself. If you see his speeches, his places, his statements, from the initial debate on the provision of vote of confidence to this day, this spirit echoes and renders it. He told us yesterday that he was electionally misled by Mr Draghi and therefore said very easily to the Greek people. It was not possible to make a proper assessment of the framework for the negotiation and its difficulties. He told us, with the same great ease, that they were being misled together in the Eurogroup on 20 February and agreed on something they should not agree on, and the result was not only that they would not receive funding for the country but that all the 11 billion euros of the Financial Stability Fund should be taken back and then be begged to get the 1,2 billion that they think were badly given. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Tsipras has not been misled, his party has not been misled by election and the government of the post-elections. He misled himself. He misled the Greek people, that is, he cheated on him. And it is tragic for the Prime Minister of the country to appear and say yesterday to the Greek people at such a crucial moment that everyone is undermining him. All European institutions and all European governments, bad Mr. Draghi and evil Mr. Dieselblum, are undermining him that the only good, understanding, that gives him her shoulder to touch is Mrs. Merkel and, furthermore, she is undermined not only by the "troika" outside but also by the "troika" of the interior, that is, the three parties and their three Heads of State, the New Democracy, Potami and the PASOK. And it doesn't even give us the honour to call us internal institutions. It is the foreign institutions and the 'troika' of the interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u179	That's fantastic!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u180	But who says that? This is what the man, the political leader who systematically undermined the efforts of the former governments, questioned their legitimacy, their ability to represent the country, to sign, to commit, to conclude agreements. It is said by the man who has not voted for any regulation, not even the regulation on the lifting of banking secrecy, which is the heart and lever for every act of transparency. In addition, he proceeds to a naive "equalism" in opposition parties. He attempts to expose former Prime Ministers, such as Mr Kostas Karamanlis, saying yesterday that the current Head of the New Democracy is a member of the "troika in the interior" and undermines him with his party, but they have links of mutual political appreciation with Mr Karamanlis, who exploits his absentia, exploits him and effectively provokes him. I will gladly expect to hear Kostas Karamanlis' political position on this matter. I have no doubt, of course, that it follows Mr George Papandreou's line, because it is obvious that he joined the logic of the Cannes and the referendum, which he announced yesterday without having learned anything from the experience of the country. So why is the previous government undermining him? He is being undermined by the previous government, which was not legalised, which was not entitled to conclude an agreement but had to go quickly to the elections, immediately after the European elections, because, as Mr Tsipras says, we left him a smaller primary surplus than we had to do. We should have left him more. It has, however, depleted the smallest, except for actual, primary surplus. For the country's cash problem, the liquidity problem is not its fault, it is not its pre-election attitude, it is not the political uncertainty created after the European elections by the political speech and political practice of SYRIZA, it is not the fact that they have caused a loss of deposits, withdrawal of investments, but it is the fact that after-election, the 'troika' internally undermines the government of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos. The responsible political leader, who has lived through the country's experience from 2009 to 2014, does not know that, in election terms, what is said by a coma claiming power must be documented, responsible? What he said hadn't crossed it? Has the Bank of Greece not sought the data from the European Central Bank, from the Greek Statistical Authority, by EUROSTAT? Is it for us, who have so far fought to convince our counterpart leaders in Europe to support the Greek Government? Will you allow me to say to a rather more personal tone: is it addressed to me, which I have informed him at the unique private meeting we have held, that I have sent a detailed letter to all the socialist and social democrat leaders of Europe to support the Greek Government? I addressed this letter before the Eurogroup's critical meeting of 20 February. When did he do something like that? When did he write a letter to his own ideological and political leaders in Europe, say'support the Greek Government'? The German party, representing SYRIZA on the European Left, voted against all Greek programmes in the Federal Parliament of Germany. He also blames us because - listen, listen! - we did not leave his Government to a six-month extension regime, but a two-month extension. But the memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, which is mainly the European loan, expired on 31 December 2014. There are less than 2 billion missing from the European Union. There are another 1.9 billion of the Eurozone central banks' profits from the Greek bond portfolio. You know that line I got it at dawn on February 22 at Eurogroup in 2011 to improve the image of the Greek debt. Is the loan finished and the memorandum remains? We have given a two-month extension of the memorandum for technical reasons, so that we can ensure until 28 February the transition to the preventive credit line, the protective exit on the markets. And we had the funds, the 11 billion euros of the CFSF, which were taken through Mr Varoufakis's hands. Should we have left the country in six months' prolongation of a memorandum, without a loan, on terms and surveillance, without any money from the European Union? Is that what he wanted? What did he want? He wanted to tear the memorial or find it to exist so that he had an alibi? Does he blame us and exalt us because we offered him the memorial alibi? Is that an honest political attitude? Is that a negotiation strategy? What did they say in election and post-election? They said 'We do not want an extension of the memorandum, we do not want the doses. We want an interim agreement.' This agreement must be financed monetaryly by the European Central Bank through the ELA, so that Greek banks, in an incestuous relationship with the Greek State, can buy more inshore notes and the whole system can be hanged by a thread and by the will of Mr Draghi and the central bankers of the euro area. That was the plan. [[At this point the end of the speech bell of the President of PASOK hits the warning bell at the end of the speech time.]] Then they signed the extension of the memorandum, without a mandate from the House - they hide it from the House - and now they come as baby virgins and they say, "We have been unleashed. We have signed without having ensured funding.' Yes, they do. Mr Tsakalotos denounces Mr Varoufakis and, finally, Mr Tsipras yesterday adopted the opinion of Mr Tsakalotos and finally welcomed Mr Varoufakis. Now, what are they seeking? Are they seeking to get some billion euros for May and June? What's going to happen on June 30th? What's the plan? ‘Memorandum III’. I told you they'd repack the existing money on new terms. Unfortunately, the existing money is not enough because, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the country, because of your attitude, which is politically opaque and dishonest, has suffered a huge financial damage. In the last three months, all the sizes, the revenues have deteriorated. The growth rate has become a recession again. The primary surplus is gone. Investments have disappeared. Trust has evaporated. The banks were undermined. This is a cost to the economy and the citizens. Who has caused this damage? Even if there's a deal, the damage has occurred. For this, there are responsibilities, which are historical, because unfortunately we do not now have an exit perspective but have the black prospect of long-term stay in the memorandum. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of the PASOK is ringing.]] That is why Mr Tsipras is not going to come up with any decision. He arrived yesterday to say "The damned PSI, which haired the bonds of the funds!". But that was a setback between state and insurance funds. Says the big conversation "If the state is destroyed, do you prefer the funds to be at the Bank of Greece or at the commercial banks? If the State is destroyed, commercial banks will be destroyed.’ Those are Prime Minister's words! If we did not do the debt haircut and restructuring and the state went bankrupt in 2012, where would the funds be? We're talking about portfolios. We're not talking about resources. We are not talking about incomes on an annual basis, which was only EUR 500 million, when the state's annual grant to the funds is EUR 17 billion. In any case, why is the government not returning these funds to the funds now? Because the IKA, as I have told you repeatedly, following our instructions, invested the cash that it received -4.5 billion euros of cash in February 2012, the insurance funds, unprecedented cash - to make up for its portfolio. So he replaced it to 130%, while trade unions running other funds made fun of the interests of those insured for party reasons. And now you are bringing an amendment to Mr Katrugalos' draft law on the AKE, on the solidarity account of the generations, which is the historical reserve for the proportionality of the insurance funds. But the analog study on the funds says that you must have this account intact, the piggyback, from 2015 to 2019, because in 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u181	Where did you see that? What do you say, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u182	...you must be able to meet the needs of the funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u183	It's in a roll. You know that now. All the bill. You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u184	That's not what we're talking about. Don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u185	It's new.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u186	It's the Army's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u187	We will talk about this tragic amendment, which puts its hands on the AAA pigeon at the critical time by 2019. But Mr. Tsipras, having said fascinated by Mrs. Merkel and long done her political and individual psychogram, told us that either there would be an agreement in his own view or a referendum. Look out! He rejected Mr Philius' elections because, as I have explained to him, in accordance with the Constitution, in the first year after the election, elections are held only by resignation of the government and the appointment of a government. He wants power and imagines a referendum without remembering the stairs, as we said. What referendum will he make? Will he make a referendum break, return to the drachma directly? And if the referendum will be taken as a referendum 'yes or not in the euro', does it think they will make an agreement with him and let him do a referendum? So what's he gonna do? Will he make a break referendum, a referendum on settling? It has in mind perhaps Pontius Pilate's referendum that he will be Prime Minister and will make a referendum, with some in SYRIZA voting in favour, some against and from the Independent Greeks looking for their position. Of course the result will be just as pleasant. Are there any of these? Are there neutral for government referendums? These are fantasies, childish. There is no referendum. If he publishes it, the country is destroyed. The banking system, the economy, credibility, trust, the country's political authority. So forget about these. As you forget the funny excuses for foreign policy. I told you last time in the previous debate in Parliament that you imagined the United States as your ally against Europe and Mrs Merkel. Then Mrs. Merkel became your favorite. You imagined Mr Putin and Russia as a lever against the West. And yesterday Mr. Tsipras revived the story of the advance and the pipeline. You have seen and suffered, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, leaving the humiliating history of bowages and the expectation that there will be an advance. But are you thinking about what an advance is in Greece? How much advance does Turkey have to make, which is the central area from which this pipeline is headed? And why not then take the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia? Why not both Serbia and Hungary? These are things that lack all seriousness. And that's what the Prime Minister's mouth says! I've told you that caging is strategic. You don't have a break order. You don't have a majority conversion. There's nothing you can do. The referendum is not the way out. The cost is unfortunately given. That is why I ask you to think that there are not many solutions: Or there will be a choice for the country to be destroyed and we will be entitled in the midst of ruins - which we do not want and please do not - or you will join our policy, the one you have spake, slandered, slandered, undermined. You'll join and you'll do well. But do it honestly, organized, openly, with bravery and generosity. And apologise, not from us, but from the Greek people for lies and hallucinations. But there's no time. There is no time for amateurism, for bias, for controversy, for contradictions, for ambiguities. The country cannot live under uncertainties that eats its flesh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction has the floor, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u189	Madam President, I want the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u190	Why, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u191	To answer that question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u192	Here, Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u193	I was looking forward to the twenty-two minutes that Mr. PASOK spoke about in the bill that we are discussing and which is not neutral, but also something that can manage only the other worthy members and his resignation, but also the worthy companions from the other groups. It is a critical bill that literally anticipates the entire Migration, especially since '88-89 and then has created a series of fierce situations on the part of democracy, which we discussed yesterday. I am referring to the channels, the analogue age, the digital age, the so-called scandals that accompany this whole story, the incompatibility - Mr Venizelos is well aware of the battle that had been fought for the incompatibilities - on the big issue concerning how many channels the country is staying from the people's side, in the sense of advertising in order to keep them alive and also on a number of issues, in any case, which have been occupied yesterday and throughout the Chamber all week. So the President of PASOK spoke for twenty-two minutes and found neither time nor the willingness to talk about these issues at all, as he also has a leading role in various phases, in various decisions taken - good or bad - in shaping this landscape. Let me tell you that his silence is literally a memorandum of faith in the complexion, which has sealed this dirty television scenery in which we live and which we are trying today, reshaping public service broadcasting, to take it to a new era. So I come to what he chose to talk about, obviously for communication and other reasons. It is clear that there has once again been a hypocrisy crescendo and an apologetic attitude in favour of some extreme lenders who create this whole climate around the country. What he said is unbelievable. The Chief of PASOK has not yet realised that the aid and the unsatisfactory advocacy towards the extremist circles of lenders, i.e. to the victims of the country, has already been discounted. You no longer need to waste any more time and you do not need to be exposed any more. That is to say, what it was to get from internal arguments this quarter - four months in detail, with evidence, with pressure, with the effort being made - I say it as a different view and I do not conspire - they took it. It's been discounted. There is no need in this Chamber for this extreme, arrogant apologetic in favour of lenders to be made this week. You don't have to anymore. So let's see what he said. He told us that yesterday the Prime Minister said he was misguided. He also told us that we were dishonest. The arrows, that is, again to the Greek Government. We have been misled, and that is why the negotiations have not gone well. And we were honest because we were not okay with the promises made by the previous government. It did not feel the need to say about what we have repeatedly put in here, perhaps some MPs from other parties, for example, for the 1,2 billion money that we have gone with 11 billion, for the 15 billion pounds that are the wall for their bonds and their rolling, which the Prime Minister mentioned yesterday in detail to understand and the 1,9 billion people, which are also owed by the banks, as they were delaying for a year and a half to get the country to suffocate and then become the PSI, for the Draghi package, which we have discussed a hundred times, that is, the right move for quantitative expansion, so that this 1 trillion euro is a little rug - which the Americans have, in any case, exceeded the crisis, as they think and in the way that they have thought and lost in Europe - and has only been excluded from it. The country is being punished. It was excluded - and we have said it 17 times, at least I have said it three times from here - from this 1 trillion, which is equally shared by the countries that are borrowing at zero rates. They take money from this trillion, and Greece is being punished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u194	Madam President, I will speak later on on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u195	Is there a rule of the European Union? Oh, no. Was there a previous government commitment in this regard? No, there wasn't. The Greek Government agreed on the quantitative extension and that all European countries should receive the same and proportionate assistance in relation to this package. However, the country is excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u196	Why is it excluded?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u197	Should we talk about the investment packages in relation to unemployment, with youth, with such issues?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u198	Why was he excluded? Tell us why he was excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u199	Oh, because they want to punish us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u200	We'll explain it later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u201	You and them, that's what they want. Understood? Is it called, then?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u202	Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u203	You don't understand anything. You don't understand money. Only in the conspiracy have your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, please, the President of PASOK has sounded in complete silence. Please respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u205	I have explained to you that these have nothing to do with conspiracy, have anything to do with thinking schools, with a different policy, with different strategy and with different interests in Greece and Europe, this is what this is all about, a wild conflict, which has been taking place for months, and a socio-economic conflict within the country for a long time. Progress, culture come through such conflicts and conflicts. So leave the conspiracy aside. So the Head of the PASOK is coming, and for these obvious things, which I have told you from which the country has unilaterally excluded itself, with unilateral energy in terms of the most aggressive lenders, he says nothing. It's none of his business. The Prime Minister comes out, frankly, to an excellent - and allow me to express - "de profundis" interview from his heart and says to the Greek people: "Children, the other, the third. We have been twisted for these reasons, and so on, openly and nicely. And is Mr. Venizelos coming here to report who? Not those who have excluded Greece from what I said and led to suffocation, but the Prime Minister for having said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u206	We've been waiting for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u207	The Prime Minister, because he hasn't bent his head down. The Prime Minister, why he didn't take this money, telling them: "We're sorry, we were wrong. We're commemorative, too. We're like the others. Don't see what we were talking about. The Left is like the Right". Because we didn't go to say such things. You failed in the first stage. Two months was about the sudden asphyxiation. You are now failing, in the second stage, which is the strategy of parentheses. You think people don't understand. You probably don't go out too far. We're still going out a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u208	Don't worry. We're going fine. Look at yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u209	Leave it 'until when'. That's what you live with. That keeps you alive. "until when" think every night. Until many years. You have not understood that this will not be the government. You're still fighting for parentheses. Together with the other pillars of the interlocutory and service of this strategy, fight with nails and teeth to become parentheses. But there is a third stage, because you have already started and are snatching that this government has come to remain, that the people will support us. With all the strings, with some possible retreats, but with clean plan for perspective and for progressive and radical structures you understand that it will support us. So what are you doing? What are you guys up to now? You're trying to undermine and degrade faces. See every week - so I say, for gracefulness - which persons are chosen by your long hand, which I said next time, by the members of the government and by the common press office that exists in this information cartel that comes out to be hit. And now you say that we do not support and undermine Mr Varoufakis. Or that he goes forth and he behind the ministers, etc. Mr. Varoufakis has done his job perfectly, he is doing his job perfectly, he is the Minister of Finance of the country, and our support is full of the entire government throughout his entire work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u210	That's why you changed him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u211	You're making things worse, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u212	Mrs. Vuldesis, please, please, please, please, please, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u213	In one hour we said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u214	Minister, if possible, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u215	Excuse me, he spoke twenty-two minutes on another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u216	But don't engage in dialogue. Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u217	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u218	It's okay. I'm not, and I'm not gonna be, either. So the third plan is this. And that's not what we're gonna do with you. What I'm going to say now is you hear it for the first time, because it's in relation to the future, but the future always starts yesterday. You want to integrate us and be the same as you. This is the third stage of this desperate attack your friends are making abroad and you are. It is this parliamentary group, this Ministerial Council. Through the great pressure, through the shocking pressure you are exerting and the deadlocks and suffocation you are creating, you are trying to see that some - many - might - might - burn, whether they are integrated and become the same, to continue the same policy. I tell you now that you have underestimated many things, as you had underestimated them both in 2012 and in 2014. Don't underestimate situations. Reflect on your level and height to make a real, substantial confrontation, conflict within the House, outside the House, democratic conflict with arguments, struggles. But that we are something different, that we are from two different banks, whether you understand or live with the fantasy that we could be the same. If you think we're going to sign memos, we're going to retreat from the red lines, which we've put together, and we're gonna be the same with you, you're too much fooled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u219	Leave the opposition. Take care of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u220	Our plan is very clear. We don't care, Mrs. Vultesis, just the merciless. We've said it a hundred times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u221	Government, Mr. Voutsi. Leave the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u222	Mrs. Vuldesis, let the Minister finish. Minister, please conclude, because it follows a large list of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u223	Wages and pensions are not enough for this country's economy to move forward. We see a lot ahead of ourselves. We are interested in going to a series of agreements, because our plan is productive reconstruction. Our plan is, while negotiating, to govern in all the order of the bills that have come both for economics and for other democratic, identifiable issues. It bothers you that they'll come back and get a job at ERT and in public, the thousands of people you had fired from the weakest groups. It also disturbs you that this long-term plan for productive reconstruction we have called for surpluses much smaller than what you promised and also requires a generous reduction of Greek debt in summer under half, so that resources can be saved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u224	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u225	So only then will the way for the country's productive reconstruction be opened, for both Greece and Europe, and really then the page now written and the book now written by the Greek people will find its own vindication. You will be a parentheses, you will be the parentheses of recent history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, let us come to an agreement. We had assent as to the fact that at one hour exactly we would have the vote. I understand and all of us understand that the position of the President of PASOK and the Minister's response have been aroused by all of us, and there may be a need for some comment by the parliamentary representatives. I would like to beg you warmly. There is a large list of speakers and we have the rest of the sitting today to speak for a second time. If you want, try to avoid this time of comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u227	It can't be, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u228	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis. It's not just you. And Mr Koutsoukos has asked for the floor, and Mr Theocharis has asked for the floor. Please warmly, if possible, make it easier...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u229	Mr. President, we can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u230	Fine. I cannot deny you the reason why the alleged person is not in the Chair is the Rules of Procedure, so you will be given the floor after you ask him to do so, but I would ask you very much to help for a more substantial and orderly operation. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u231	The parliamentary representatives had agreed before none of us spoke, but after the involvement of Mr Venizelos and the Minister's reply, we have to respond, otherwise the procedure is not taking place. Minister, listen. I will speak to you very well, because the country is at an extremely critical point. The Prime Minister comes out yesterday to Mr Hatzinikolau and says: 'We want an agreement to be reached and I am optimistic that there will be if any of those who do not want it do not want it'. I give you the name of at least one of those who are going to take it. It's called Dimitris Army. The amendment tabled by Mr. Militaryis to Mr. Katrugalo's bill what is he doing? He's taking the AAA's money and taking it to the ancillary funds. So what's he doing? It raises the fiscal problem of the country, increases the country's debt and increases the problem of the insurance funds, because it removes them from their future. It is an amendment which, once it has been known - and it will necessarily be - to creditors will block the whole agreement. So you can't and want an agreement and do such actions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you do this, Mr. Pappa, and don't move your head, it goes on to say that you don't want a deal. It is more honorable to go out and say with courage here "we do not want an agreement" than to try afterward weeping down the responsibility of your actions to others. Secondly, Mr Voutsi, I will tell you as simple as I can, because you probably don't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, what will happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Georgiadis, but you promised to help us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u234	I'll be right back, Mr. President. Why are we exempting the Draghi package? There's no conspiracy. What's there? We owe bonds to the European Central Bank more than others, and when the decision was taken with the Draghi package they said that once we pay back what we owe us in July, we will enter the Draghi package in the same proportion as the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u235	What right? The Italians owe how much?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u236	Less than us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u237	Four hundred billion in bonds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u238	But you don't understand money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Georgiadis, please. Do you realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u240	The Italians have for the first time taken from the European Central Bank now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Georgiadis, you're not commenting. You speak politically and you are not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u242	Listen, Mr. Voutsi. If you don't understand, call Mr. Mitsotakis to get a tutor to teach you, if you don't want me. The Italians have now taken over from the European Central Bank for the first time. We took to George Papandreou. These bonds we took then follow us, so we can't get in. It's not because they're bad. Watch out. They don't conspire against the Left Government. They have common rules that we all have to follow. If you don't understand these rules, if these rules are difficult for you, call us. Goodly we will explain to them not to make mistakes, but stop conspiring.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u244	It is derogating for the Hellenic Republic to have a minister who every time he takes the word discovers a conspiracy abroad, an internal conspiracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Comrade, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u246	Stop that. Rule with responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to consult and help the Chair, please very much... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Colleague, do you answer for yourself now? You can go out in the hallway and tell them. Let's do a job. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u250	I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u251	Wait a minute, Mr. Palphie. Because Mr. Koutsoukos and Mr. Theocharis have been ahead of us, I want us to get together and come back to the previous one...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u252	We are not going to come to an agreement. Mr President, I would like you to give me a speech for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u253	Wait a minute, Mr. Paphie, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u254	I'd be through all this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u255	But I'll give you the floor, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u256	We made a deal that we wouldn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u257	That's what I'm saying, Mr. Paphie. Let the chair run.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u258	What is Mr. Georgiadis? We said we'll talk this afternoon. To respect this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u259	That is exactly what I wanted to say now. Don't be in a hurry. I wanted to say that an agreement was reached earlier, that the parliamentary representatives should take the floor in the second part of the sitting. We all said to keep this. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard, we are closing the first part of our debate. The debate is being declared late...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u260	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u261	No, Mr. President. You'll give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, I, too, asked to say something for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u263	Wait a minute, Mr. Kutsuko, please. I thought what I said before, reintroducing the previous agreement on your intervention in the second part of the debate, was accepted. I'm so sorry. I will give the floor for a minute to you and Mr Theocharis. I would ask, however, that we be informed at the outset. One minute will not be four minutes, as was done on Georgiades.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u264	We do not, therefore, respect the agreement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u265	Please, Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u266	Listen, Mr President, we respect the agreement and I will not speak. I would just like to make a comment, because Mr Voutssis has made a personal headline to Mr Venizelos for the 'agreement of interlocutory'. Unless the House didn't understand that. So I say to Mr. Voutsi that Mr. Venizelos referred to the argument and said that Mr. Tsipras chose to give his first interview as Prime Minister on a private channel. Unless you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u268	For a moment, I really will speak, Mr President, and thank you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We have heard Mr Venizelos and we have heard Mr Voutsi with great attention and how much interest they have told us. What we understand is that we see the different aspects of the same currency. ERT's black has brought us here. The responsibilities of former co-population are enormous that we are discussing such a bill. But the white one we see now blinds the same. "Fade to black..." are directors "fade to white". The same blinds darkness with absolute white. It is about the different sides of the same currency. The reshaping of populism last year brought us to the elections. The government of SYRIZA populists from the very beginning has continued it. The reforms which the previous government did not believe are reforms that it does not want to do because that government does not believe them. So, Mr Voutsi, don't worry if you'll be the same as the previous government. You're the same of your genomes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of State: "Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and an amendment to Rule 48 of Mr. D. 2190/1920 and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u270	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u271	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u272	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u273	Given the statements made by the representatives of the parties, we have the decision. Consequently, the Bill of State: “Consolidations of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and an amendment of Article 48 of the Law. 2190/1920 and other provisions' were accepted by a majority in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law. I propose that articles and amendments be discussed as one section, in accordance with Rules 101 and 103(3) of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind the House that their debate and vote on the articles are carried out in turn and in accordance with Rule 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 102(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure, inclusion in the list of speakers in the debate may be requested from the beginning of the debate on this Rule until the end of the speech of the fourth in turn. Records made after the end of the speech of the fourth speaker and until the conclusion of the originals of each article shall be valid only as a secondary provided for in paragraph 3 of this Article. The right of dentistry in the oral question has only one right for those who have taken the lead, and if they so request, in accordance with Rule 102(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The pleas in law referred to in Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure are governed by Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind the House that the speaking time of Members in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure cannot exceed four minutes of the hour for the vocabulary and two minutes of the time for the denology. In this debate, the Ministers and Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall be heard whenever they request the floor for four minutes the first time and for three minutes each time. The Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall also be entitled to speak four minutes in the first time and three minutes to two more times in accordance with Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure. If exceptionally, the debate takes place according to articles, the speaking time mentioned above is doubled. The House shall decide, on a proposal from the President, to further increase the speaking time, in accordance with Rule 103(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The procedure is as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will speak on the articles and amendments as one section. The remaining speakers will follow from the meeting on the principle, who will speak in principle and on the articles and amendments, and who will follow any articles. I propose this procedure, and I see it from my fellow Members, so let us begin. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA rapporteur has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, you will allow me, because we had resigned from dentistry...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, you will have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I did not expect that so soon the assumptions I made would have been confirmed in the most clearest way by starting my first speech. And what are these? I said, beginning with my speech, that during the debate on the bill in the committee responsible on the part of the Officerial Response, nothing was said about the essential point. I have also said that the committee has often heard the words 'public television' and 'NERIT'. In other words, they did not even try to defend the forms they have created, with the exception of perhaps Mr Georgiadis and Mr Voridis, with the latter being particularly revealing in terms of DIGEA and the planning of the previous government for NERIT. Nor did anyone support the black coup that the coup d'état then imposed. In fact, Mr Arvanitides, PASOK's special speaker, referring yesterday to 'black', spoke about 'a government's self-government act'. That's something. I just want to remind him that Vice-President of the then government, who proceeded with authoritarianism, as he described it, was Mr Venizelos. So what did she tell us about the bill - to come back - which is discussed by the colleague and rapporteur of the Officerial Response, Mrs Vulture? Absolutely nothing. What did he say about ERT? Absolutely nothing. What did he say about the coup closure? Absolutely nothing. What did he tell us about the unscrupulous formula of the ICU and NERIT that they set up? Absolutely nothing. This is obviously not a failure. Obviously, this is not the wrong tactic. That's just their familiar tactic. When there is misguided arguments, then the ball goes to the platform. In fact, all Mrs Vulture had to say about the bill we are discussing is that the government is supposed to want to restore certain people. Here, Mrs. Vulture, the logic really raises hands. So let's say it again. Those who worked, says the bill, with indefinite contracts on June 11, 2013, that imposed the "black" are back to work. There is provision for contractors, which we have said many times. All colleagues are returning to work, Mrs Vultimatis. No one is excluded from the new ERT. No one's out, I repeat. I think it was understood. We must, however, admit that we are discriminatory and must accept that with absolute openness. We deliberately exclude some from the new ERT. We exclude special-position staff. We rule out the army of consultants, which you, Mrs. Vultesis, and the previous rulers have set up. So we confess that we exclude your own gold - paid children and, above all, we exclude your practices. In the new ERT there will be no army of appointed government actors, which, on your day, made the ERT a mechanism for government propaganda. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said about the failure of the joint ministerial decision or of lenss, with which we are going to light up the black one. You know we can stay in dissent, against the counter, but even a flashlight can shed light, just as long as you use it properly. The main thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that ERT is reopening, not the way, because, unfortunately, as long as we are still - and I say it again - to capitalism, we also have to follow some legislative paths that serve the objective and, in this case, it is the immediate opening up of ERT by a process of continuity rather than continuity with alpha-care and the return of the workers and the preservation of the property of ERT, which is the property of the Greek people. That is the objective and it is very specific and this objective is very real. Would you like, ladies and gentlemen, to open up ERT again? Do you want all workers to go back to work without vengeance and re-racialism? Would you like, ladies and gentlemen, even through this bad bill for you to provide for the signing of collective agreements? That's what you need to answer. Turning through the complaint of capitalism is easy, ladies and gentlemen, but until we definitively resolve the contrast of capital - work, we have to fight in an ants for the change of relations and for the change of consciences. This is the most scrupulous and, at the same time, charming task for the Left. I assure you - and I am sorry that the JRC's colleagues are not here, I am sure they know that much better than I do - that after twenty-two months of struggle, the consciousness of those who have fought is very different and this change is the most hopeful step forward in serving the great goal. Are we gonna pass her like nothing happened, or are we gonna take a step down? Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of hearing about both the Supervisory Board that is being abolished and the participation of workers in the administration. I would like to make two comments on this. Firstly, the works and days of the Supervisory Board have been described very much by your "elected", Mrs Vultesis. We don't have to say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u277	What do you gain from repeating my name? Do you self-advertise by referring to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u278	Mr Prokokakis and Mr Zoulas, even Mr Kapsis, described them. I assure you, we don't have to say anything. And party interventions also denounced the censorship of Tsipras' speech at the PTH revealed the pressures for recruiting your own children as well as for sinful production contracts that were cut and the next day they appeared out of the window. Refer to what the appointed ones have told them to answer and not to us. I would also like to ask a rhetorical question: Who has defended Special Administrator Gika Manalis, Mrs Vulture? Who in advance acquitted him of his actions and omissions? It's our commitment that all things will be investigated. No one, but no one will be in the unavoidable. The law will apply to everyone. It has also been heard that we want to abolish trade unionism. Where does that come from? Workers' representatives will come out in the most democratic process, which is direct and universal suffrage, and no one forbids them from being members of their associations. Furthermore, can a left-wing government be denounced that it wants to abolish trade unionism when the bill through its articles provides for collective agreements to be signed? The collective agreements will not be signed with the unions? So don't draw from the hair our supposedly contradictions. Ladies and gentlemen, there has also been a very long debate on the appointment of the Management Board. I am not talking about the set-up positions on the subject, but about the genuine anguish of many Members of Parliament about the independence of public television. So let us be clear: From my initial speech I said that no law, however perfect it may be, can solve all matters, especially when it comes to an issue, such as the independence of public service broadcasting. I repeat that what matters is political will, but particularly the procedures and the framework of operation, which, on the one hand, prevents arbitraryness and resallets and, on the other hand, impose continuous control and transparency. This government, the left-wing government, can commit that the framework, which will form the next board of directors, will prevent the above interventions and open the door wide to society to be the final judge. So make it a decision, gentlemen of the previous government. We're not going to follow your practice. We are not going to take a step back to our principles and do not despise the principle agreement, which for the first time has been enacted through this draft law. We are not going to take a step back to our principles. It will be done and it will be essential, binding and clear. Because we, in terms of democracy and freedom of the press, have principles and will prove them both at institutional level and above all in practice. Also, do not pass the social control councils. It is a challenge that can change the data and the relationship between public broadcasting and society. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, let me repeat that the bets are both large and open. With these bets we want to behave. There are no ready and easy recipes. There is a political will, intentions and a constant struggle, a daily need and a fight to win the bets and not to lead the good intentions to hell. The "open, independent, ungrateful, pluralist, living ERT" means it! We mean it and we'll fight it against the scorched man. With faith in the workers themselves, with a demand for participation in society we aspire that the result will not disprove us. In conclusion, I should like to refer to today. There was talk of a conflict of interest. There has even been a moral issue, because the SYRIZA rapporteur, i.e. I, am an ERT journalist. Because the matter has been raised in committee too, I would like to make it clear that I am very proud to be an ERT journalist, one of the thousands of workers paid for under the collective agreement and not even received, Mrs Vulture, their compensation, nor even their wages. I am very proud of the struggle that we have fought with hundreds of colleagues, a struggle that has been embraced by society. I would like to stress this in particular. I'm very proud to be rapporteur for this bill. I am very proud that this government is stopping a coup. I am very proud that this government dares to do with the great interests with which all the previous years the old political system has been doing business and making careers and jobs. Because these are top political interventions with deep and essentially ideological features, only issues of morality cannot be raised. The morality of this is illustrated by everyday acts and much more by whether these actions refer to society and are accepted by society itself. In this regard, the only conflict of interest that exists - and we recognise it - is the conflict with the established interests that have served and served by the most rotten political system, which, when it dies, is literally nailing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Kritsi. The reason for that is Mrs. Swollen's eight-minute speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Sometimes one wonders why there is so much hatred. Mr. Varoufakis also wondered. I won't. I imagine that the SYRIZA rapporteur has found a way, constantly invoking my name and addressing me, to appear as my opponent but I am not going to follow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u281	Because you're a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u282	I choose my opponents. As to the comments, some complaints were reported. Tell your friends - they may have once been friends of someone else, but now they are your friends - to "do not scratch in the gypsy gypsy." The fact that they have not been sued does not mean that the time has elapsed from what they have said and will perhaps be called - it will be necessary, if you continue to defend them - to prove them in court and they will not be able to prove them. From there on, what can I say? A lot of questions were asked, what we said here, what we said about it, what we said about it. And we ask and don't get any answers. And I asked what you have to say about the fifty-nine padlocks a day and I didn't get an answer. So why is it compulsory, when one asks, for someone to answer him? Oh, no. Mrs Tachyau raised a point - and I agree - that there is a conflict of interest. Many Members here today belong to the workers, to the ERT's potential. And we asked: “Will you remain? Will you be re-entered?’ This House must know. We have not received any response from what we have heard, which had a sufficient dose of bile. I have no wish to talk about this. So this last sentence... Anyway, will you stay? Will you be hired? Will your ERT employees be hired too? There is a conflict of interest. This may be something for which the rest of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and the Prime Minister himself, must take a stand. We cannot legislate here and among the Members of Parliament there are five, six people who are to be retired. I'm saying so many now, because I know so many, it could be from the countryside. I have heard before that a colleague from a provincial instrument that seems to be re-entered. So these are issues. And listen to see, Minister, you're coming back to this all the time. I want to make something clear in this Chamber. I know it's not intentionally possible, but because of a lack of arguments. In this Chamber, however, we must make it clear that everyone has the right to say their opinion. Lately, there's some cases I don't like. One, for example, says “Why are you talking? Are you a reporter?", "Why are you talking? You work for ERT? Are you a doctor? Are you a lawyer? Are you an officer? Are you an actor?’ No, it's not like you say. We all have the right to talk about everything and we are judged on the content of what we say and on their truth. So it can't be done. One more comment. In recent times a well-known propaganda policy has been widely used, the practice of repetition. So you repeat the same things, and that is, in fact, a gebelish propaganda authority, which says that when you repeat one thing many times it is seen as a given, as if it had happened. So you're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u283	Rock collision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u284	Be quiet today, Mrs. Baja. Please. If you can contribute with your speech, by your word. You can't do that. Do what you want. I'm talking to the Minister. I'm a rapporteur. You...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u285	You've done it several times before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u286	Okay, now. Listen. You say that the act of legislation on ERT has never been discussed in Parliament. You say it again. How was it not discussed? The law came and the legislative act was incorporated into the law that created NERIT, and here it became "mill". You were not in the previous House, but I tell you that it was "become a mill". Because, I have heard that "the people of Lippoupolis" has lifted up even more" - very heroic things I hear - you know, without money, no people can raise Lippoupolis panoramics. In plenary today we have heard mercanism lessons. Honestly, not even in the best of our dreams! Of course there's a style. And yesterday the Prime Minister tried to justify that. I said it before. She said she didn't know Mrs. Merkel. He didn't know how sympathetic he was, how competent he was. Now that she met her, she liked her, they were loved etc. We have also heard the Minister, Mr Voutsi. Minister, stop crying. Everyone is undermining you all day! Weren't you the most skilled? Why? How do you all manage to undermine you and be underneath it? You were very dudes! You'd be bored. Where have so many of you been found to fool you, cheat you and sit down now and say all these things? Don't cry anymore. You know, nobody goes with the weak one. If you do so to pity the people, I tell you that no people have ever pityed the one who is whining. So get out dynamically and say. We since last night, since this morning, say that it is not possible for a Prime Minister, who was electionally shown to promise that everyone will dance at their pace, suddenly saying "we were deceived". And who cheated on him? Draghi! Draghi, who has repeatedly brought you under Article 123 of the Treaty of the European Central Bank, who provides for all the things they do. And when do you do that? Negotiating! So what are you telling them? You're telling them 'You're cheating on us and we can't go through with you'. As you say, you will be deceived again. Did they make fun of you? Do you insist that you cover your inability to hide it behind the propaganda of the external enemy? Everyone's against you. Everybody! The inner enemy and the external enemy are essentially for you the enemy of the people. And you are the defenders of the people and you come to the people you want to defend to say to him: 'Laete, we are being mocked, we are being deceived, we cannot negotiate'. That's how you don't advertise yourself. You've been advertising them all this time. Let me just say a few words. We have objections to everything concerning this bill. You're trying to reopen something that's already open, hire some people who already work or are already retired or have already taken overtime or already got their allowances. You netting an unknown amount of indemnity. It is all, I repeat, 'in the air'. You do not care about the situation in which the country is situated. You are discussing and defending your own legislative acts that were good. Why yesterday did Mr. Tsipras say "Do you not want the people who work in the Greek Sugar Industry to take their money?" [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. When we brought legislation on workers at the "ERRIKOS DRC" Hospital, were they not human? What was it, so I wouldn't use the commonly called? Why didn't you vote for their money for them? Now, because the problem has been forgotten, you weren't supposed to vote for the workers at the "ERRIKOS DUTAN Hospital" and you're giving us that we don't want the workers to get their money from the Sugar Industry? When we brought legislative action to pay the money and transfer the children to school, why didn't you vote for it? You didn't want the kids to be taken from home to school and from school to home? You did it for reasons of principle. So don't tell us all of this now. Don't be ironic to us by your Chief, saying we want a sustainability certificate, because sustainability has been recognised in the agreement of 20 February by the primary surpluses - fine! - and you signed it. We don't care if you change Mr. Varoufakis in the music chairs with Mr. Tsakalotos. We cannot have Mr Varoufakis telling Mrs Lagard that the debt will be paid in the next few months and then he will come and say that we will not pay. I shall now conclude, Mr President. Yesterday Mr. Tsipras said that politics is the art of fitness. He admitted that politics is the art of the practicable. I'm sorry, but so far we think politics is the art of the duo! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-seven students and students and eight school attendants from the 6th Municipal School of Chania and from the Municipal School of Mandudi Evia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Lafazanis has tabled an amendment. Because, due to unsuccessful obligations, he has to be absent, he has asked the Bureau to present it now. I would ask the next rapporteurs, Mr Lagos, Mr Dannelly, Mr Giokas, to allow the Minister to speak. The Minister promised that his intervention would be three to four minutes. If you agree, then, to give the floor to Mr Lafazani and to follow Mr Rabbit, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn. As far as I can see, you agree. Mr. Lafazani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their concessions. I am not going to mention, of course, the bill we are discussing. That's not the reason for my intervention. Allow me to say that for the darkness that prevails in many media, today's bill can be a large ray of light and open a new path to informing and culture of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment in the short term in order to abolish a major scandal, which unfortunately occurred in the pre-election period. In particular, the scandal is: On 31-12-2014, to everyone's reproach, in the middle of a pre-election period, the Energy Regulatory Authority decided to increase the so-called EMCDDA, the specific emission reduction charge for pollutants. As you will know, this special fee is charged to electricity tariffs and increases them equally. It was therefore time for RAE to make these increases in an electoral period. Unacceptable in every respect! But that's not all. We've always had in the scandal. That decision was not published. It was not published by the media, nor did it go to the Government's Official Journal, nor was it published on the RAE's website. It wasn't post-electioned. And suddenly, on March 3, 2015, we saw in the Official Journal of the Government announcing the increases in EMCDDAAR after three months. For these increases, I note that the government and the ministers responsible had been fully informed and have concealed these increases in the pre-election period as well as after the elections. I have just taken up this position at the Ministry, as I had to do, called upon RAE to inform us of developments in the regulatory authority and to tell us the urgent issues. In this context, it did not make the slightest impression that there were any such increases. These increases applied from 1-1-2015 to electric invoices and were not published nor even felt the obligation to inform us as Ministry at least post-elections, even post-retrospectively. Unfortunately, we did not see a word of self-criticism from today's opposition and government parties about these unacceptable methods and dark-type processes, which entered in the pre-election period in order not to show up and expose the government in order to increase the electricity tariffs that were at the heights. We have therefore considered our obligation, as soon as we have been informed and seen this decision, to table this provision, with which we withdraw these increases, which are in all categories of customers, from businesses to households. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We are therefore withdrawing these increases with this arrangement retroactively from 1-1-2015, so that no further households and businesses will be charged. And I would like to say that these politically-regulated methods - let us say that - which are unacceptable, show some things, unfortunately, also about the role played by the RAE. The RAE is not a government in this country, and much more, it is not a government overgovernment, to decide even on electricity prices. The independent authorities cannot circumvent and replace popular sovereignty. We have stressed this at the first moment and that is why we will be tabling - and we are already working on it - a new regulatory framework for the responsibilities of the RAE, which will certainly be compatible with European rules but will abolish this role of superstate for RAE, which very often serves private interests. Thank you very much. And I'm calling all sides...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u289	All right, Minister. That's enough. We get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u291	I call all sides...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u292	This isn't about ERT! Did you get permission from Mrs. Constantopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u293	I call all sides...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u294	Mr Minister, you have tabled the amendment. Don't open a dialogue now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u295	No, you'll bring it to your bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u296	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u297	You'll bring it into your own bill when you bring the rubles from Russia!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u298	Mr Minister, you have tabled the amendment. Don't open a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u299	I don't open a dialogue. Are you making an observation to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u300	Keep your time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, I have not interrupted. Others interrupt. To those who stop making observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u302	They didn't interrupt you because you were done. You said thank you very much. You were done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u303	I said thank you very much, and you see that there are voices.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u304	That's true, but you could ignore the voices.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u305	Instead of making an observation to those who are shouting, you make an observation to me. I shall therefore conclude, Mr President. I'm saying it's annoying what I'm saying. And instead of nursing, creating situations and "flying the ball on the platform."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u306	The amendments and the instruments are annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u307	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u308	When you were talking about coups, it was good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u309	Answer the scandal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u310	You were talking about unnecessary amendments and legislation, as well as 'coup d'états', and now you are bringing an unrelated amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u311	Answer the scandal, the darkness, the opacity, the hiding from the Greek people, the exploitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u312	When you bring the five billion, bring the amendment to your bill. We're not going to vote on it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u313	So, you want the increases to remain?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u314	That's the propaganda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u315	Will you continue the dialogue for a long time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I do not continue, others continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u317	Don't answer! What does it say 'do not go on'? Don't answer. Mrs. Vulge, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, some people want growth to remain, and because we withdraw it, it disturbs them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u319	Your colleagues are waiting patiently. Mr. Rabbit is waiting to speak. Please, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened a little while ago by some Members who are in here and their profession are journalists, saying directly and objectively, because that is the truth, that many times they have been involved in television stations and radio stations to which they have been working. They have been phoned, they have been told to come out of certain people to talk, and some others have told them not to get someone else to talk. We heard this more than six to seven times in this sitting yesterday and today. We heard it from different people. The only thing we didn't hear, however, is that they should tell us names, tell us who they were, who they were, who they were, who they were, who they were, who they were, who they said, "don't take off those MPs or those who don't want their opinions to be heard." That's not what we heard. Mr Minister, since you are in the government at this time, we would very much like those things that we have said to solve in the past, to see you do. But from you so far, we have seen a fear of putting them with certain people, with certain large-scale, majestics, great-workers of Greek society. We would very much like to see a solution in here. I repeat again that we have heard too many former journalists, now journalists say about specific cases where they were being called and told these things. Let them tell us the names now. What are you so afraid of? So much fear of the big-fashioned, so much of the great-publishers, you can't even mention their names? Tell them to hear it here, let the Greek people know. Don't be afraid of anything! In this respect, I would also like to see when the very big issue will finally be discussed, the very big issue that we have said since the first meetings of the committee, the issue of 'DIGEA'. I repeat again that these people set up this electronic platform, they gave an incomplete sum of 18 million instead of the 715 that they should give, according to moderate calculations, and so far nothing is going on. We would also like to stress that this particular company had said it would signal all over Greece, can watch the channels throughout Greece. Sadly, however, in regions of Macedonia, in Kilkis, in Grevenna, in Pella, in our remote Aegean islands, the signal is not enough. The Greeks who live there are forced to see and listen to Bulgarian channels, Turkish channels and unfortunately do not listen to Greek. That is where we have to resolve this. The people of DIGEA took this procedure as a result. They were the only ones, if I'm not mistaken, who were at the contest. There was no one else. They were only the ones in Greece, as is only one big-worker who takes all the public works in Greece. One goes. If one time is two or three, it always happens and one of them gets it. So let's see what's going on over there and see if it's going to be discussed and resolved, just like the question of the licensing of television stations. Because we know very well that - not everyone - the vast majority of private television stations operate completely illegally. They had received some relevant permit twenty years ago. This authorisation had to be renewed. That's never happened. Life goes on, and these big-blankers continue to shape public opinion and guide people’s thoughts. I know that with what I'm saying, I'm not going to make myself or my party once again, and I know that we're going to have new attacks on the 20:00 news reports that all come under arrest and blame us. But it's okay. We are determined to accept this price of our words and our actions. It doesn't scare us at all, and we proved it. But we would provoke you of the SYRIZA and the ANELs to do what you were saying in the election, because so far we only hear you say a few words from half the Step of the House. Now that you have the power, do what you have to do with the big-timers. A moment ago, we saw something we have seen in recent months and in the previous parliamentary procedure that prevailed. We have once again seen a perfect partnership between New Democracy and PASOK. The seat of the New Democracy was licensed throughout the debate here and as soon as the President of the PASOK came up to speak, the New Democracy MPs who were here ran along to support him. They ran not only to listen to him but also to some verbal conflicts and clumsiness that existed, to take his side. But how is it possible for the New Democracy to get into this mess? How is it possible to crawl behind a 4% dead PASOK, which does not exist? That's not what we're talking about to hear, because most of us in here know it. At least let the voters of the New Democracy hear them. Let them hear them who believed that the New Democracy and the PASOK have been the opponents for forty years. They were the ones who blamed each other for the dissolution of Greece and for who has to come to take the former's place to save Greece. Finally, it is now for that reason that they have found them. They have nothing to spoil. They both leveled Greece together. I would also like to stress something else. ERT was closed on 11 June 2013. I do not know whether it was accidental that the competition for television frequencies followed on 19 June. Let's look at this, let's see if all these things were random. As far as the bill is concerned, I would like us to be placed as Golden Dawn. We will say that in Article 14 on the recruitment of journalists, we will vote 'yes'. We are in favour of this process. I repeat that these workers have to go back to the public television service and work in the way they have to be rather than some people being an awkward and take thousands of euros every month do not do anything. To offer, work, and we agree on it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] With regard to Article 5, which deals with the reward fee, it is false what we have heard, namely that the reward fee will be EUR 3, and that is the given one. It's not like that. According to a joint decision of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of State, the amount of the fee may be adjusted. We want a clear answer here. We have called for many days - and we have not received it from anyone so far - to see what this rewarding end will be, whether it will increase and how long this process will be. Will it be every two months, every six months? Is it gonna happen whenever there's a need? And what will be the need for it? Finally, I would like to say something about Article 10 concerning the Social Control Boards than we say here. Why would there be? What social control councils are going to be looking to see what happens on public TV and public radio in Greece? According to what the Minister has said, he has committed himself that ERT will neither propaganda nor attempt to set up a specific political line. So, these people on these councils, what's the point? It'll work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We would also like to know in this particular article which persons will be made up of these audit boards. Who will they be from? Because, in fact, we hear about various social bodies, about such names that as Golden Dawn we have experienced too many times and because we know in Greece and especially in recent years who are given the opportunity to speak, to have an opinion and to express their opposition, but also because we fear that this is something very specific that is being done for specific political purposes and reasons, we in this article are vertically opposed. In the rest, we shall vote 'the present'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. Mr Danellis, the rapporteur from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few introductory remarks before addressing the specific amendments we have tabled. Firstly, both the Minister's speech yesterday and the SYRIZA rapporteur's speech almost exclusively focused on the 'black' imposed by the Samara Government two years ago. The 'black' we all condemn it or almost everyone. However, we cannot legislate solely on the look at the black, so in yesterday's debate, because then we legislate in terms of yesterday, because then we legislate in terms of repetition. And that confirms our suggestion that ERT is in danger of becoming a 21st-century Klathmon Square, that is to say the first spoil on which every newly elected government will impact to plunder it, to unravel it all over again. Secondly, you committed the hurricane to say that those who criticised you believed and said the lenders would cut off the bill. We who have taken specific amendments to the main burden of criticism have not told you that. We never said that. We have argued that it is the reality that the bill is being cut off in practice. We claimed that on the basis of economic data, the project doesn't come out. At the other key point in our criticism of ERT's suffocating dependence on the government, we did not actually hear a convincing reference. Mr. Pappas in his intervention questioned the existence of BBC's independence and European public broadcasting. It's not like that. Moreover, if you believe this today, you are leaving the criticism your party made when it was opposition to ERT. Yesterday Mr Amyras presented a recent study to the European Parliament detecting the landscape of public broadcasting throughout the Member States. She's useful. In other words, you have responded with your suggestion that independence will be guaranteed by the principle agreement, which you have referred to today. Is it possible to believe that the paperwork will be more effective than the operation of certain institutions that we are called upon to adopt? Much more strengthens the "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis is drinking", since the so-called agreement is being developed and concluded between the Minister and the ones he has designated. I imagine that you have been referring to a concept of the BBC, from the beginning of the last century, since 1927. However, these texts are submitted to Parliament by the Minister for Culture, Media and Sport. You see, the neologies of the Minister of State responsible for public service broadcasting only apply to us. In the case of the BBC and the management and supervisory board are not arbitrarily appointed by the Minister. They are the parties to this principle agreement. We have heard this morning and Mr Tsukala's speech that said that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will ensure in future the broadest consensus in the selection of the ERT leadership. It has decided to propose an amendment to Rule 49a of the Rules of Procedure. But, Mr Tsukala and ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to refer to the future. We can regulate it today. I do not know who is proposing them, but I think they are suggesting that we agree on the restoration and relocation of the ERT. I think it is sufficient to remove from the bill the words 'to express its opinion on the same subject of the procedure laid down in paragraphs 3 to 5 of Rule 49A of the Greek Parliament's Rules of Procedure'. And add the words 'with a majority of 3/5'. No one forbids us. Moreover, in any case, the law prevails over each rule. I inform you, Minister, that your supporters at the ERT Open are negotiating and sharing, in fact, positions already on the new ERT. So if you do not accept the amendment we have tabled so that the selection of directors can be made by means of a public notice for secretaries, directors, directors, etc., not only are we returning to the era of party positions, but we are also entering a new era with data from what has been preceded, that of the playboy. That's something I'd like you to take care of. These were introductory remarks. On this point, I would like to make specific comments very briefly on the amendments we have tabled. Our first amendment concerns Article 6. The general meeting of the Minister of State, the Minister of State, on matters relating to public broadcasting, is hereby removed. We have repeatedly said that we are the only developed country - because I do not know what is happening in the third world - that we still want to have a special minister, the Minister of State, for public service broadcasting. I think that the existence alone reproduces the function to date, i.e. the cord between the government and the public service broadcasting, which was completely enclosed. I think that it is sufficient for the representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Culture to be transferred to which, in our view, the powers of supervision of public and private SMEs should be transferred, as is the case in the rest of Europe. Secondly, with the second amendment, we are introducing a new article establishing the Independence and Quality Assurance Council, the SIP. The bipolar structure of governance of public broadcasting is under way in the vast majority of the developed world, in order to guarantee what we all want, namely independence. Instead, the draft law entrusts the role played by the supervisory board to the overseeing minister, even with regard to the prerogatives. This is a clear regression. Amongst other things, the amendment we have tabled stipulates that this Council will be five-member instead of seven-members and that it will also be responsible for evaluating programmes and staff. For the selection of the SPS, the notice shall be made by the Board of Directors of the ERT. Candidates submitted shall be made public and nominations shall be deemed to be at the first level of a five-member committee, composed of two ERC members, a member of the AACC, a member who shall indicate the academic sections of SMEs and a member designated by the economic universities or HR. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u323	You've got it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u324	I shall try to shorten, Mr President. The committee of candidates shall prejudge a threefold number of the members of the Board, which shall be recommended to the Committee of Institutions and Transparency. The Committee on Institutions and Transparency shall decide on the Chairperson and members of the Board by a qualified majority of 3/5 that may be ensured. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 7 concerning the Board of Directors, so that there can be a balance between the Chair and the board of directors, and a more specific report on the President's qualifications - which we believe should be identical to the qualifications of the Chief Executive - and the members of the Board. With regard to Article 14 and the transitional provisions of staff, we have tabled a specific and comprehensive amendment adding to workers who should be re-entered and those who have been working under a fixed-term contract by 11 June 2013, for whom it is legally acceptable to conclude five-month contracts. It is also added to the employees and those who were employed on public television without belonging to ERT on 11 June and did not or did not have to conclude an indefinite contract with NERITS SA and who also conclude five-month contracts. The need to reimburse over-the-counter compensation shall be explicitly added by means of a Ministerial Decision within a specified period of time after the publication of the law, so that the other procedures can be initiated after that. A period of five months shall be fixed, in which certificates and old decisions will be checked, and the finalisation of the necessary number of employees of the new company so that the excess staff will be mobilised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u326	I'll be brief, I'm leaving too much of what I had in mind to mention, and I'm gonna be telegraphy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u327	You should be briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u328	I think that because this article is one of the most critical of the bill, since it concerns the reintegration of staff, I would like to refer to why we believe that this proposal by the Minister should be accepted, because I think we all agree that the restoration of the injustice, which is a matter for all of us, should be accompanied by a response to the problems that led to the dismantling of the ERT, namely the control of certificates and decisions, from a return, after determining the level of compensation to be reimbursed, so that everyone concerned knows what is best to do, from the determination of the needs of the company's strategy - therefore, and the needs of staff by specialities - by an internal procedure for the evaluation of staff and, of course, mobility for the part of staff that is not prepared to continue. Also, the other proposals we have tabled concern new articles on the Strategic Plan and on the ERT's operational plan. I think it is unreasonable that there are no conditions under which the product we are asking for from national broadcasting will be produced. For Article 10, we consider that we have no reason to move forward with this popular-democratic type of amendment of the Councils. I am referring to the Social Control Boards. I think we can, if we want, place a central advisory committee based on the sizes and capabilities of the country. I think we can talk to universities, professionals involved with the objects of the ERT, but not representatives of bodies in the narrow sense of the term. Finally, with the amendment we have tabled in Article 12: 'Compensation for staff' we add a paragraph - which I think, Mr Minister, you have no reason to accept - to cover the posts of directors, directors, coordinators and any other members and any other directors that the board decides by means of a public notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Colleague, there's a list of 50 of your colleagues here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u330	I conclude by saying that, if we do not ensure the public character of ERT - which is not guaranteed by the proposals that the government has still insisted on so far - we are losing an opportunity to carry out a genuinely independent public service broadcasting that will be without its paths yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u331	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Thursday, 30 April 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Achaia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Maria Kanellepoulou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the increase in the price of tickets in museums and archaeological sites. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 142/21-4-2015 topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the funding path and the development perspective of Amphipolis. 3. The question by No. 128/20-4-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of Finance regarding the Government's intentions to ensure the protection of disability pensions and the incompatibility of the first residence. 4. The question asked by Z' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health about the need for direct staffing of the paediatric clinics of Trikala and Karditsas Hospitals. 5. The question by No. 123/20-4-2015 of the Greek Independent Athens MP Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Health concerning health measures to protect the citizens of the Tower of Elias due to the accumulation of waste in the area. 6. The 131/21-4-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the launch of the "House Settlement" programme under the Partnership Agreement (ESA - new NSR) 2014-2020 and the relaunch of the building activity. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 134/21-4-2015 topical question by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the problems of the State Theatre of Northern Greece. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 143/21-4-2015 topical question of the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr Theodorou Fortsakis, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the selection of new Regional Directors of Education. 3. The Question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Eleni Gerasimidou to the Ministers for Finance and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the payment of employees in the National Lyceum and on the guarantee of state grant. 4. The question asked by MEP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance about the existence or inappropriate framework from the Greek and European authorities regarding default risk swaps without the respective ownership of securities - state bonds. 5. The 115/20-4-2015 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health regarding the schedule for the abolition of the Anonymous Society of Hospital Remuneration System (ESAAN SA.). 6. The Question No 105/20-4-2015 by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health on the procedure for selecting hospital units. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 104/17-4-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the need for immediate repayment of the sums due to hospitals in Achaia. 8. Under number 106/20-4-2015, a topical question by MP Drama of the River Mr. Kyriakos Charakides to the Minister of National Defence on reports from the manufacturer (LOCKHEED MARTIN) on the reconstruction of the old-fashioned P-3B aircraft and the counter-proposals by Airbus. 9. Under number 103/17-4-2015, the current question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the repayment of funds from the Financial Stability Fund (FSF) to the EFSF. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by Z' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health about the problems of the Paediatric Clinic of the University Hospital of Larissa. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the problem of specific vocational education and training workshops (EEAE) and the technical training courses (TEI). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that from the central gallery he and his colleagues are following our meeting with Mr Axel Scheffer, Vice-Chairman of the German Social Democratic Party (SPD) Parliamentary Party (SPD) in the Federal Parliament. Mr Colleague, welcome and thank you for the visit. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Pappas is missing too, because I wanted to say to him that 'You want to sanctify and some of your party won't leave you.' What do I mean? For twenty days now you have been trying - and the Minister responsible for dealing with the issue of the bill and the SYRIZA Members - to convince us and above all to convince the Greek people - because you cannot convince us - that despite the fact that the bill clearly describes a fully controlled body, this broadcasting body will be supposedly objective, independent and plural. While you are doing these efforts, Mr. Friend comes yesterday with his position and blows them all into the air, all this effort to convince us of the so-called independence of ERT, saying this amazing. I say what Mr Philis said: 'This is information and that is very important, because all the others, the ability to negotiate with the outsides and with the media, to collide with the outsides and with the media, presupposes that we have the possibility of direct, unmediated communication with the citizens. That is why we propose ERT, not because we want to bring back a thousand five hundred workers." If this is not the epitome of manipulation and the transformation of a public service broadcaster into a government body, then what is it, when Mr. Friend comes in and says that we want ERT to have direct and unmediated communication with the citizens? So here is the justice of all those days that we have said that the new public service broadcaster will be completely controlled. Now, for the conflict with the media and the outsides, let us leave it better because, as far as the means are concerned, we are still waiting for the first act of legislation to come to Parliament and the government to tell us with names and addresses which big business have benefited from the deletion of fines for tax and customs interventions, while the second is binding on the Greek people. In relation to the outsiders, the Prime Minister's interview yesterday, which presides us for a new agreement, for new anti-grassroots commitments, for privatizations, with changes - apparently - and in insurance, for the people to pay back ENPI and, of course, with a number of promises from the crumbs you promised to go for a walk. You are preparing the ground methodically, reminiscing the logic of the 'burned land' and the difficulties of the European Union that would otherwise change. You are preparing the ground for the people to accept new measures and to say and thank you from above, because it will suffer something less at present from e-mail Hardouvelis. In our view, this is the set-up and you want ERT in this respect, on the basis of what Mr Philis has quite rightly said yesterday. You want it in order to make it unmediated and directly, as he said, to cultivate this climate to the Greek people. I shall now refer to the articles in the bill. Article 1. We said it yesterday. While it is clarified that ERT will include pan-Hellenic, regional television and radio stations and a number of other activities, there is no commitment that we are coming back to the structures and functions of 11 June 2013 and not just that. We also had the admission of the relevant Minister to the committee of Parliament that the structures would be restored by synergies, which, in our opinion, photographs partnerships, mergers of structures and the break-up of the bill for the existence of balanced corporate budgets. Article 1 ERT also applies to the status of ECHO. Let us remember that under this TECS regime, unpaid ERT workers are still unpaid before closing for overtime, for nights and for other seasons, claiming that the then administration - and of course also the subsequent - of the TECs. The current government continues to maintain the ERT under the TECs regime. The status of ECHO also says something else. It's n. 3429/2005. It says so. It speaks of a specific regime in relation to new recruits, that this staff will be recruited with a trial time without the application of collective agreements. We asked the committee. Will this also apply to the newly recruited ERT staff described and provided by the ECJ Act? We didn't get any answers. In relation to Article 5 and the anticipation of the fee, we vote'residents'. The last amendment that has been made to the committee, in our view, leaves us open the possibility that this reward ending ends in the next few years will increase even further. And I say this because there is a commitment to balanced corporate budgets. We also asked for the vulnerable population groups to be excluded from the reward fee. A SYRIZA MEP was also mentioned as being regulated. It's not regulated. It is referred to by a joint ministerial decision in the extreme future to exclude these vulnerable groups. We say there is an amendment to the text of the bill and the exception to the text of the bill itself and not to refer to the calles the exception of the vulnerable groups. The other Articles 6, 7, 8, 9 are those on the substance of the articles which guarantee the absolute control of the Government in the new ERT. Article 10 for the Social Control Boards is the fig sheet, and all previous provisions exist. In fact, Article 8 - we said it yesterday - and in the original draft law from the over-concentration of responsibilities on the CEO, it was excluded that the work regulations - should be drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Staff Regulations. In other words, by means of the process of collective bargaining, this, Mr Triantafylides, came out in the draft law. The CEO, in accordance with the consultation procedure - like these consultations on bills posted two, three days at the 'DENMARK' and then voted on the basis of what the government wants - will draw up the regulations, including the working regulation. This is the regulation of the bill that was later made. In relation to Article 13, which provides for the assets, I would like to say the following: We had asked for detailed information. That's not what happened either, because there's a blurred landscape with the assets. Here you say that the phrase "ERT" should be replaced by...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u333	The procedure is completed. I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u334	Good. We say this for the following reason: in Article 13, you say that the phrase 'NERIT' is replaced by 'ERT'. That's right. But you also have to change the number of people. Article 13 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial That was an amendment that came after Mr von Wogau voted. 4173 which provided for the direct sale of assets by the law, by the Greek State. You must also explain to us: Article 14(9) contains the following wording, which we have not yet understood. Who's that? ‘The transfer from and to the Greek State and the legal entities governed by public law to the ERT’. From the Greek state, Mr Pappa, we understand that. And I guess we'll find out about the list you brought us. From ERT to the Greek state, who is it? Because here, the law says. It says "transfer to and to the Greek State". The 'from' is understood. The "to" what is it? I imagine with the list you'll give us, we'll be more enlightened. With regard to Article 14 which refers to workers, we are voting'residents' because there is even this rehabilitation of workers who have been calling for all the previous period. Excluding fixed term contractors, the two hundred. Excluded are workers who have come out with a reduced pension, and you were committed to solving this, and of course all the Memorandum Applicable Laws apply, as far as the salary of this staff is concerned, and also the renewal of contracts is from the time the Law was published in the Official Journal and is not retroactively overturned by the abolition of the ERT, because it is a matter that would drink matters of insurance, working time and go by saying. I would like a minute, Mr President, to say on the amendment on the end of renewable energy sources. There is one regulation, not to increase for 2015, which is correct. But the great increase in this particular fee, 40%, took place in 2014. We are also asking for the 2015 increase, which is small, but also for the 2014 increase, which is huge and which is the responsibility of the Greek people with PPC's accounts, to be abolished, in the context of the permanent position that we have for the abolition of this specific fee. For all these reasons, Mr President, we reiterate our position on the principle of 'present' and against most of the articles in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Mr. Nikos Mavraganis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, therefore indisputable information and information, of course, from everyone and to everyone. I imagine that my colleague Mr Philis meant that the government also has the right to information and public information. And he said it because the entire national government is under pressure from the systemic media. And this is well understood by the Greek people who, for the first time, sees a newly elected government under fire not only from a systemic political class within the walls, not only from a number of people who have financially flouting views and who put themselves against the system itself, but also from a systemic programme, from a systemic grid of the media. It is therefore clear that this piece of legislation was imperative here to come and a programme of strategy certainly to legislate, vote and have all the legislative provisions as envisaged. Given that we have referred to our position at the outset, it is advisable to move directly on to the articles and, above all, to point out that we very much welcome the legislative provision of Article 14, which provides that ERT may also be a provider of third parties, with any legislative improvements combined with this. This is for those who are struggling in and out of the Chamber, but also for what is to come of it, but also for what is the real political will of this government in relation to the poor mediation system in the country, which in many cases is intertwined and we all know about it with economic interests, but also with political interests in this country, and it is precisely because of this frustration here. We also welcome the possibility - and this is coupled with Article 14 - of setting up subsidiaries and other legal persons on the ground. I am talking about the legislative improvement of Article 1(4). Also, for other reasons of cultural, cultural, educational, we welcome the provision of the legal improvement of Article 2(6) regarding the use of the Greek sign language, subtitles, audio description, etc. for people with hearing and vision problems. Particularly important is the provision of Article 3, as improved, as it provides support for cultural, but also production, for the production of films and book publishing. We consider it incomprehensible that a society that wants to run away would like to advertise itself, would like to move forward with confidence and with faith in its powers not to have, like all the advanced countries, a system of projection of its worthwhile projects. This, at least in part, is both cinematographic works and books. Also important for us Independent Greeks is the legislative initiative to improve Article 12(1), which restores injustices in the labour sector and seeks to equilibrium as far as possible, in proportion to the problems of our economy, those people who under private law, unlimited or fixed-term contracts, provided their services in the past to ERT or NERIT. The provision of Article 12(5) is also important, as has been improved, since it leaves a relative and yet supervised freedom to manage ERT's balanced budget in the direction of producers. I stress that this freedom must be supervised and well-intentioned, because we all know the pathogens of the system that created the negative climate in some part of the world in terms of ERT. As far as the amendments are concerned, we welcome the position adopted by the Minister in relation to the abolition of the increase in the specific emission reduction fee for pollutants. It is necessary for two reasons: firstly, because the economic endurance of society cannot withstand another burden and, secondly, because it must be symbolised that these droughts, those under the table, which hinted and wanted to strike under the waist, are ending. This must be symbolised in every bill and in every area, because people must know that this government will serve its orders and serve them at all costs and at all the strength it has. So in any case it will be symbolized at every opportunity too. The ERT3 amendment also has a special symbolism for us. We welcome her with the greatest mental strength we have. For us ERT3 is the same as northern Greece, it is the same as our Macedonia. It's of great symbolic and worthy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. It was necessary to give symbolic and practically the opportunity for ERT3 to survive with the necessary independence. I would also like to refer to the late amendment, if, of course, this House accepts it, which is necessary. I therefore call on the Members of all the wings, which, of course, some of them are not in the Chamber, but they will listen, allow it first and vote for it. It is the amendment that extends the deadline for the entry into the one-off payment and repayment system of some of the basic debts to the IU, namely tax debts to the Greek State. People are asking for it, society and demand it if you want the financial interest, for which many are being cut, perhaps pretextably some of them. After that, the Independent Greeks will vote in favour of all the articles of this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Arvanitidis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u338	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the Prime Minister last night, through the media, recognised the government's mistakes in the negotiation strategy, after changing a negotiating team, after trying to escape "creative ambiguity" and contradictions, after confronting Mrs Merkel after her acquaintance and after his misinterpretation, he admitted that his Government and himself must return to reality. We therefore welcome this shift in reality in the interests of the country, as long as it has the right step and the right plan, which so far does not characterise you. The debate within the time-stage and the situation of my country reminds me of the expression 'Let me not wake me up!' The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, through the effort to reconstitute ERT, dreams of solving all the social problems of our people, through its entertainment, its information, its educational upgrading, the development of cultural products. In the debate we heard from the SYRIZA colleagues and the Minister responsible for claiming that this bill seeks to build a new competitive public television, with flexibility and genuine independence from party influences and government custody. They argued that if the television product is a product of great political conflict, it is injured at birth and called on all parties to contribute positively to the operation of a reliable public broadcasting service in the biennial and not for a single political cycle. I fear that the Minister did not convince most of the colleagues on the other side of the House if I am judged by the positions that have been heard in this Chamber. It is a common idea that this bill does not provide the necessary insurance, to cut off the umbilical cord between the ERT and the political power, between the ERT and the Minister concerned. The Government's aim is to monitor public broadcasting. There is therefore a need for a public broadcasting service, not a public broadcasting service. Of course, it is good that the draft law currently being discussed in plenary is based on the founding law of the previous government on NERIT, which you called "form" and on the emissions of which your executives were absent. Under the pretext of avoiding legal, formal and substantive problems, you are modifying the founding law of NERIT, number 4173, you are only expressly changing the articles on purpose, mission, general principles and content, and on the general meeting and remove all provisions concerning supervision, control of the body at all levels, from the strategic plan to the recruitment of staff and internal operating regulations. Also remove the open selection procedures for management and management posts, as well as the strict qualification framework required for them. In a bill of "false", as you call it, we would expect you to table a clear plan on how ERT will reopen, based on accumulated knowledge to date from all its long-term function, of course by avoiding distortions, sins and failures of the past and by keeping in mind the good practices of NERIT, as well as the results of Mr. Alvizatou's research. In particular, we have waited for a draft law which clearly describes the number of stations and the types of television and radio services that they will provide, the new instruments, the technological development and the investments to which ERT intends to go. We hoped that the regionality, in particular ERT3, will be explicitly established and clearly defined, in terms of its autonomy, its autonomy, its decentralised administration, its twenty-fourth-fourth-hour operation in Greece, because it was and is the only regional instrument which does not have a seat in Athens. I hope personally and I think that if someone really wanted to restore ERT3's function, it should be based on v. Article 3(3), (4), (5) and (6) and (d) of Regulation (EEC) No 2173/1993 The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection welcomes the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work and the proposal for a Council Directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. We are called upon, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 7, in the absence of an operational plan, to vote for another creative ambiguity, with the promise that past errors will be avoided and the new "ERT SA" will be competitive, productive and free of any government intervention. In Article 9, the Board is to be repealed. The board. It will be chosen by a majority of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, i.e. by a government majority and the Minister of State will exercise close supervision. I compare that before the board of directors. it was designated by a Supervisory Board after a special procedure and the Supervisory Board consisted of individuals of prestige with a choice of an open international competition and an assessment following the recent amendment by the Conference of Parliament's Presidents. However, there was a prestigious instrument controlled by the Board of Directors. In particular, in the draft law for the President of the Board. And the CEO luckily now after the changes, they need a university degree, which, of course, is thought not to be necessary for the other members of the board. Of course, the university degree asks for it by any person who is going to serve such a position as these. A proposal would be the Committee on Institutions, which is responsible for selecting the President and listening to him, to seek an increased majority. It is an issue that could guarantee what we want, namely the President of the ERT, to be a person of broader acceptance. We must therefore provide for this in the law, its hearing in the committee and its choice to have a broader majority. Article 10 provides for the setting-up of Social Audit Boards. However much we believe in the involvement of civil society and the supervision and control of public bodies, it is not clear how this role can be effective and effective. In Article 12 you regulate staff issues of the company, to which I have made the following points: PASOK had denounced the intervention of the New Democracy in the summer of 2013, the "black" at the ERT. I have to say to the SYRIZA rapporteur that it would be nice to read the PASOK announcements at that time. He had demanded that the guarantees of transparency and independence be passed then. However, the 'black' to the ERT cannot be an alibi for returning to the past, in the worst days of ERT, broadcasting, a broadcasting broadcast suffocated by the State. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. I insist that there should be criteria for the reintegration of all ERT's dismissals, for there to be a serious assessment of the structures that will work and for the integration of the staff employed in these posts. Mobility should be provided for surplus personnel and incentives should be given to retire those close to pension thresholds. If this is not done, we will be spectators of the same work of inefficiency and deficits that we have experienced in the past. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ERT project will not succeed without strategic planning, without transparency in recruitment, without merit. In fact, the demand for society is the redefinition of ERT by clean, transparent procedures, a ERT, a public television - standard. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We were all waiting for you, a left-wing government, a radical government, as you say, to see even an innovation in the media sector, overcoming past practices. Minister, in this draft law you do not guarantee minimum guarantees of transparency, nor an integrated operational plan for the operation of the ERT. Unfortunately, you didn't convince us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the floor has been requested by the Minister, Mr Pappas. Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes, obviously tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, to start counting, at least after I give some legislative improvements, although the House - the limited but capable - has no objection?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u341	I've been talking since 11:30 and now it's 15:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u342	Let Mr. Panagulis speak before me. No objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u343	I'm not putting you down now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u344	You're the first person to speak right after the registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Venizelos spoke at the last minute. He made a fairy there. He objected to our President's speech yesterday in his interview. Anyway, speak, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u347	Mr Panagoulis, I understand that the complaints made by Members in relation to the procedures are perfectly reasonable and justified. Allow me, Mr President, to read out some legislative improvements to the draft law that we are debating. The last subparagraph of Article 3(4) is replaced by the following: ‘To this end, among other things, it has time, 1.5% of its annual turnover for the production of cinematographic works and support for independent publications of books’. At the end of paragraph 1 of Article 5, the words ‘in any case the amount of the fee may not be less than EUR 3 (3)’. Here there has been an observation from the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, which we consider reasonable, so that the end cannot be reduced by a ministerial decision, so that there can be a blow to the ability of the public service broadcaster to produce a sufficient product. The first subparagraph of paragraph 12 of Article 7 shall be replaced by the following: Paragraph 4 of Article 11 of this draft law is replaced by the following: Paragraph 2 of Article 15 of the Law. 4173 as replaced by Article 12 of this draft law is replaced by the following: ‘The terms and conditions of employment of the employees of the company engaged in private contracts of indefinite or fixed duration shall be determined by a collective contract of employment concluded between ‘ERT SA’, represented by the Board of Directors and by the representatives of the trade unions of the workers, in the context of the maintenance of balanced corporate budgets’. Finally, in paragraph 7 of Article 14 of this Law, the following subparagraph is added: ‘The paragraph 7 of Article 4A of Joint Ministerial Decision No 2/11-6/2013 of the Secretary of State to the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance is repealed’. It is about abolishing the immunity of the Special Administrator.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u348	This morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of 'DIGEA' has also been raised, and different approaches have been developed, and I would say, which also relate to broader ideological guidelines, as to whether the public can and must have the responsibility and the provision of provision for a digital broadcasting network. This morning we had a signal break. Any other proof that it is not the private panacea of everything! When we talk about the major infrastructure, beyond our ideological differences, we must look out of the window and see what real life teaches, what international experience is, what experience in our country and these observations are without ideological strangles, so that we can justify our role in relation to the realisation of our proposals. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few general remarks on the procedure so far. From the New Democracy and the rapporteur and its other Members will vote against the bill. Yes, sir. First, he says, 'cause the workers are coming back. And while they are negative workers returning, they will at the same time vote against it because fixed-term contractors are not returning. Secondly, they say they will vote against it because the board of directors will not be independent, but they do not have a specific proposal on exactly what will happen and they probably want the supervisory board back. The question is, what supervisory board? What they appointed even on the day the previous government expired, where one - one resigned, denounced political interventions? It is not here, and Mr Fortsakis is here to tell us exactly what happened in those days and those months, to have his ex post opinion on whether this experience is satisfactory, whether, let us say, the supervisory board prevented political intervention or whether the political council prevented the previous government from entering the studio as a bull in a glasshouse, taking the journalist's microphone, going round the table and voyaging a government right - I assume - to participate in the panel. These things the viewer won't see. This government and this government majority will not offend the viewer. I hope that we will also have some lessons from the recent past and that our viewers will not be insulted again in this way by the opposition parties. There are other criticisms, such as those heard from the Potami. I would first like to say that, with the exception of yesterday's parliamentary representative from Potami, the debate by the special speaker and the Member responsible in the committee has evolved very creatively and comments have been incorporated. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I wanted to highlight this. Potami considers that the project does not come out with the return of the workers. At the same time, the Potami wants to return the fixed-term contractors. At the same time, it has been proposed and accepted - and I would like to say this once again, as I have noted in my first speech, but also in the committee - to limit the 25% threshold for external and mixed production. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the Minister]] I will be very brief, Mr President. I'll get through to the articles quick so I won't consume time. Of course, the river also raises the question of independence. There was also a study from Potami, which we had the opportunity to see. I would like to say that this study that they have presented makes a reminder that is absolutely incompatible with the criticisms we have heard. This study refers to a survey carried out in Britain, which states ‘a significant feature that this survey shows is a direct inverse correlation between volumes and contents of legal documents relating to the operation of public broadcasters and their effectiveness’. The more detailed and extensive the laws and regulations on the protection of the administrative autonomy of an organisation are, the more politically dependent it seems to be. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u349	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u350	We'll have to rethink it. I call on the Potami to have a positive attitude to the bill. Let me just remind you that at the BBC the Supervisory Board is appointed by the Monarch, with the opinion of the Members, the President and the Vice-President are appointed by the Ministry of Finance, on French TV, the Supreme Council for Audiovisual Media appoints the Board and this is appointed by the President of the French Republic. Now, let me say a few words about the basic criticism of the JRC and I am closing. The JRC doesn't want us to return to old pathogens, but at the same time, it wants the ERT law to revive. I think we both can't do it. The Memorandum of Understanding is a criticism we hear. I would like to say that here there is provision for collective bargaining. It would not be possible for the government alone to confer privileges which it does not have the ability to perform, but which would not be in line with the public on the legal sphere and to create, on its legislative initiative, a category of workers who would have much more favourable regulations. Finally, I would like to say that the arrangements for the exclusion of trade unions from the board of directors do not have a basis. Workers' representatives are made by one, two. They are elected by the workers by direct universal suffrage. And I would tell you that, precisely because there is the incompatibility, workers' representatives are also protected against any criticism of conflicts of interest, because when the process of negotiating the collective agreement is under way, if anyone is a trade unionist and employee representative on the board of the company, what side of the table will he sit on? So I think this criticism is too unfounded. I'm sorry, but I have to finish. Ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, I invite you at least the article on the revival of labour contracts to vote in favour of it. And I close by saying that there has been an explicit addition, the obligation for the government, arising from the law on the reopening of ET3 by a management committee. I think that is of particular importance to him. ET3 can become a channel that will highlight the issues and problems of the region, become a channel for which we will all be proud. Overall, I think that after the vote on this bill, a new day starts for the television scenery in Greece. The country will be back in favour of its television and this is the first major step in the opposite direction to what we have unfortunately followed in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We shall proceed to the Members' seats. Mr. Efstathios Panagulis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, with the draft law we are debating today, the works and days of the previous government, which reminded us of other times, of its times 'decide and order', come to our memories. When on the night of June 11th the "black" fell on state television, democracy was actually dressed in black, the struggle of the Greek people who had given the last decades for democracy and social justice was dressed in black. They downloaded the state TV switches, as if they downloaded the switch in their home. They were pleased about that. And we have also seen it these days: the enthusiasm and praisers of the junta, the well-known gynaecologist of the channels - I do not call it, because he will come to take the floor on staff - who from yesterday to today has spoken fifteen times. The Rules of Procedure are unacceptable, Mr President. It has been a regulation that has served the interests of the New Democracy and PASOK over the last forty years. It needs a review of the Rules of Procedure! I'm from 11:00 an hour in the morning. I'd talk at 11:30 or 12:00 an hour. At 12.45 hours it is time to speak, the "very", the strong President of PASOK, President without fans and voters, is present today if the elections are held.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u353	Who came, said it and left!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u354	Who came, spoke and left! And he didn't say anything about the bill! He criticised yesterday's interview with our President Alexis Tsipras. He didn't say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u355	And viewing zero!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u356	If he wanted to criticise the SYRIZA president's interview, he could call for a press conference, but he knew that no one would go. Well, at least this is where Parliament's channel was. I was expecting you, Minister, to come here more fighters and documentary evidence. To explain, I'm telling you that you had to come here, have brought all the scandals that have been done since the MBT, and then - or in the last 20 years - on state television. They went through state television and presidents and general directors. We can't throw everybody in the basket of unusables. There were presidents and directors-general who wanted to do their job properly. But they didn't leave them. You know, Mr. Ministers, how many of those people who went through there have done unscrupulous properties? You know they've demolished ERT's funds? Do you know that they put "logues" on thick wages? Do you know that they were giving 200,000 euros, 300,000 euros and 400,000 euros a year not to journalists, but to'speakers'? I say this because we need to make it clear that it is a journalist who has written thousands of millions of pages. He's a journalist. Now that some have left there and gone to private interconnected channels, they get 1/10 and 1/100 of what they got on state television. It has been said here by a New Democracy Member that the new television will be an annex to the SYRIZA Press Office. The most raw interventions in recent years from New Democracy and PASOK were made through state television, by specific individuals who had been placed to distort the truth to the Greek people. But I would like you to allow me, Minister, to say that it is a first positive step in this bill, you have ignored - I will not say at all - a large part of the views of POPERT and the President of Panagiotis Kalfayannis, who must note that for the struggles he gave with the workers, along with the people of Athens, Attica and in all the cities of Greece, he was awarded the UNESCO prize. I think that even if you do not get ahead of this bill, some improvements need to be made. ERT's closed. Why did he close? And thousands of workers lost their jobs, hungry hundreds of families, lost twenty lives this time. Minister, we must honour these workers. These workers, together with the cleaners, together with the fired, the unjust, the ones who ran the most cruel and extortionist way the previous government, must be entitled to them. After all, it is our duty. It is our duty to say and we are the representatives of a government fighting for democracy and social justice. Mr. Venizelos came here and said nothing about ERT. Mr. Voutsis is very noble and answered him with courtesy. Who's here, Mr. Voutsi? Mr Venizelos came in, who was circulating with a BMW whose every Serb did 24,000 euros. To find out, for the Greek people to find out, you know what that corresponds to? It corresponds to four years of a retired person who gets 500 euros a month. That's the reality. They looted the place and instead of getting into ants, they make language today. Minister, we have to justify all the workers. I would like to say two or three remarks, because I do not want to be too vigilant in my time. Firstly, all workers must come back. In the bill, if I am not mistaken - correct me, if I am wrong - their pre-service is not recognised for only seven years, nor for months from their unlawful dismissal. They were found unfairly outside, lost their jobs, Minister. They starved, bleeded, ran, confronted the MATs. You know all this because you also participated in these events in the Radiomegaro. ERT must open up all its programmes, Minister. It must restore all the workers and in particular restore all those who struggled for SYRIZA to come to power. To conclude - Mr President, thank you for your tolerance, you did not ring the bell - I would like, Minister, to tell you that it is a good bill. I told you during my speech that, if there are certain omissions, if there are injustices, we will have the opportunity to make up for some other bills. Because this will be the best memorial, Minister, to all these workers who have fought two years ago, and today they are not among us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st High School of Thessaloniki. Welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ilias Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard Mr Georgiadis - and I will agree with him - saying that we must stop talking about a memorandum and an antimony and talk more clearly. Disputes are ideological, they are political. I say this because I saw him bragging "Yes, to us on the right is our choice to privatize. It is our choice for flexible employment relationships." I think that we as left should not be afraid of this dialogue here. Mr. Georgiadis may do so to regain the right-wing voters who voted against the memorandum. But slowly, they will understand - and understand - which is philosophical and what anti-popular policy is. I'm going to get into it. We are now discussing the draft law on ERT. The placements all here in what direction is it? I heard Mr. Voridis saying, "I don't need ERT because me my child, who's two years old, downloads everything in the tablet" and I'm sorry. Mr. Voridis, have you gone to the Arquis, been to Pserimos, have you gone to the Leipzig? Because the little Maria who lives there to download the tablet - if she has - the things that your child downloads, she has to be a subscriber to TURKCELL, a Turkish mobile phone company. At the moment - other speakers have said - 'DIGEA' does not exist on many islands, especially in small islands, but on large islands and on Kos and on Rhodes in many areas. We have seen here today that even in Attica there was no signal. But you also know from these channels that we are catching that we are experiencing through the 'MEGAAL' dictatorship of channels. We also have regional channels, the small ones are either private or much more municipal. I'll make a brief report. There's been too little left. There is, for example, in the Dodecanese one in Kos, and this'scares' to be held after going to close. We must in every way support them because, anyway, it is something different, it is a hope in this landscape that exists. As a result of all this is in the Dodecanese and in all the islands of the eastern Aegean, we can catch too many Turkish channels, everything, to be informed from there. And it is not the only thing we benefit from the neighbouring country. You know, in order to travel and communicate the islands of the Eastern Aegean with each other, that is to say, to go from the Dodecanese to Mytilini, Samos and the others - we do so often - we take the boat, we go across, roads across from Samos and then we go out across to Samos. It's not the only thing we do. We have health problems, and we don't have doctors. So we take the boat and go to the opposite doctors and serve us. Not to mention a number of other problems. We - you know - have no problem developing relations with the neighbouring country. We're good to go out. And they will benefit. However, the great patriots, the nationalists, who raise flags on the islands, when they desolate what they will say to the little Maria I mentioned before the Arquis, who is sixteen years old and is unwritten? What are they going to tell Manolis and Leuter, fourteen and fifteen years old, who are illiterate? What will all these people say to Panagiotis, nine years old, who are illiterate, from the Arkians of forty-five inhabitants? What are they going to say to the little Christus who next year will go to grade 1 and is it certain that he will also remain illiterate if this policy continues? They're five children of a family on the island and they have nothing else. So if ERT does not work, all they will continue to have is Turkish channels. Because they will not have 'DIGEA'. The seven children of Mr. Michael's family live in Pserimos, and they're all graphs. Who's responsible for all this? What policy is responsible for? So when, because of this policy - for which Mr Vorides and Mr Georgiadis are responsible - are now lifting the flag as a pioneer of the most extreme right, of the Samaritan Right - tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, they are devastated by these islands, we will run to nail the Greek flag otherwise. So ERT can play a very serious role in keeping life on our islands, especially on the small islands. In addition, when the time comes, we must also discuss what we need to do in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon. For eight minutes, the honourable Member, Mrs Uranidou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 11 June 2013, the day the unprecedented European coup d'état of the closure and the 'Black' to the ERT is a signicant day for our democracy. The authoritarianism of the then government, substitutable and institutionally cloaked until then, took the color he deserved, black. I am not going to refer to the 'black' Timing just before it is delivered to the 'DIGEA' whole national network. Dates speak for themselves. The world that might have had a thousand reservations about the way the ERT operates, as the then rulers had it, had just this, memento about its current function and not about its existence, nor about its historical contribution to society. That's why he reacted spontaneously and massively to the surprise of the inspiring. This simple thing that people felt, they did not understand and surrendered to poetry and authoritarianism, perhaps to balance their obedience to foreign centers, they made the fatal error. I will say this more simply so that the pious colleagues can understand it. If a metropolis doesn't do its job well, you don't take away Metropolis, but you're improving its operation. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the undemocratic 'black' at the ERT is a turning point for the government at the time, which meant that it was going backwards and finally falling. This bill submitted for discussion by the government of cooperation comes to restore democratic normality to the basic goods of the information and entertainment of the Greek people. The Government implements one of the main commitments of the two parties and lays the foundations for satisfying the need and the right of society for a public and not state broadcasting, producer and transmitter of pluralist pluralist pluralist information, cultural production and hence of quality entertainment, for an ERT to be accountable to society. Dismissed workers of indefinite duration find hope again and regain their right to work. With regard to fixed-term contractors, for whom the Accuracy Opposition doubted, I would say leave the crocodile tears. Everyone remembers to welcome thousands of redundancies and available resources and so on. With regard to fixed-term contractors, therefore, with regard to the legal improvement submitted by the Minister at the meetings of the committee, there will be a substantial increase in the scope for employment, since in ERT notices their experience with the public service broadcaster will be mobilised, while, as the Minister has already announced, the possibility of retraining will also be given to those who have had to receive early retirement. The substantial debate that has been developed in committee with the expression of twenty-three bodies has resulted in significant legislative improvements and, for example, I quote: The provision of an explicit obligation to allocate 1.5% of the annual turnover of the ERT to produce film works and to support book publishing. These are legislative improvements that have a positive effect not only on the cultural product produced, but also on the employment potential of a number of specific sectors such as: directors, documentaries, etc. Also important are the forecasts for our fellow citizens of AMEA, as well as for the neglected signatories for subtitlement and audio description. You know, they are joint owners of public ERTs and they deserve the opportunity to enjoy our common good. Let me also make a reference to regional stations. In a region such as my own, border region, where the broadcasting landscape is dark, flooded by Serbian, Bulgarian and scorning broadcasts, such as in the Aegean Sea, from Turkish, in a region where private television has left, as in all northern Greece, even though it manages a national good, radio frequencies, the reopening of regional stations is of paramount importance for our country, because regional stations are an integral part of our regional history, an integral and essential part of public information on the ground for over 50 years, a strong voice of democracy. In the past twenty-two months, it has been the regional stations that have taken the lead and kept together with ERT3 and all the other structures of public radio and television, living in the voice of ERT. All of us can only admit the great contribution of regional stations and the culture of the country, to education, to their contribution to the different culture and education of our country. We do not support the fact that all distortions have been solved by this bill. Still left: Firstly, care should be taken of appropriate laws or regulations to collect 2% of the gross revenue tax for the years 2010-2011-2013 and 2014 of private channels. And our position, ladies and gentlemen, on this issue, as well as the position of Officer Representation, really demonstrates once again who is identified as who. Secondly, the tender for the sale of television licences must finally proceed. We support, however, that the 'themeal stone' has been reborn and we are optimistic about what remains to be done: democracy, pluralism, multicoloration and, above all, public and not state. That's what they come for the reborn ERT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Uunidou. Mr. Bukokouros has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be presenting myself with the experience of my twenty-year-old journalist, who is twenty-year-old professional journalist, having obtained contact with the media landscape and who has followed the course of the Public Broadcasting Agency over time. Minister, you have spoken of opaqueness all these years. The fact is that what can hardly be understood is how it is possible for the New Democracy and the PASOK to clearly manage ERT over the last few decades and your political space to enjoy multiple assessment, acceptance and resonance at this workplace, long before the elections and long before the closure of ERT. We are not talking about after 2013 where this workplace is very privileged for SYRIZA. You have already said so in response to the JRC's criticism. The JRC asks that we do not return to the era of ERT's opacity and pathogenicity and, at the same time, calls for the revival of the law by saying that both are not done together. "Language of a latent" or some of your intentions and some diseases that have already been recorded before this bill is even passed? The participation of workers in the administration of ERT, Minister, does not ensure objectivity, pluralism and transparency. I'll give you a small example from Magnesia, from Volos I come from. There is a radio station, the legendary 'Paparga'. After June 2013, he entered a self-management regime, which continues after the elections. The good colleagues who manage the station did not consider it useful, necessary, even for one minute, to call on the only Member - not the New Democracy, but on the whole - of the Anti-Population - in the Magnesia Law. The same, of course, is true of the central media. And I'm not even disrespectful of your space, I said I was a 20-year professional journalist, a member of the Authors' Union, a member of the WTO, a member of the International Journalists' Association. So your argument that "participation of workers ensures objectivity, pluralism and pluralism" is immaterial. It is the established control bodies that can secure these demands. And you are abolishing the supervisory board by saying that it did not prevent some phenomena from happening in the past, of course forgetting selectively, Mr Minister, that we had resignations from the supervisory board that your party then had rushed to exploit partisanly. You're abolishing a certain institution, the Television Counsel. Why? What does it cost? So many independent authorities operate in Greece. Isn't he important? You replace him with some other councils, which have not been tested or know how they will work. You do not take into account the international experience. And the issue - in my opinion - is not whether the body will be public or private, or rather, since we are talking about a public service broadcaster, we have to point out from the outset that it is necessary for this body to be economically viable to perform its role. Nothing like this is guaranteed by the bill that we are discussing. However, if the private economic criteria operated by this public body, the chances of economic survival would be particularly increased. You say that the balance sheet guarantees its economic adequacy and viability. And when the balances aren't balanced, what are you going to do, Minister? Are you going to cut employees' wages - did you say that - or would you increase the fee for ERT? You do not make this clear, as you do not specify, to the financing of new producers, which you said "will be financed with 1.5% of the turnover of the ERT". Since it is highly unlikely that ERT will have a significant turnover, the amount will probably be very small, unless the turnover includes the fee, which means that this amount will be very large. What scares you, Minister, and you do not go to public competitions, to public notices for the recruitment of the ERT's greats? I could also point out many other points. I do not want to reason that the new broadcaster will employ two thousand nine hundred workers. As a professional journalist, I don't want any of my colleagues losing their job. But I see nothing else your government will do, Minister, for the rest of the workers of all the industries who have lost their jobs because of the crisis in the private sector. On the contrary, I see other workers losing their jobs. I said, therefore, that I do not want to comment on the press that a whole BBC employs a thousand and fifty-five employees, while ERT will employ three thousand workers. It would be enough if the bill convinced me that the public service broadcaster would be viable. It will not be, Minister, and the citizens will again be called upon to pay. This bill, even though it is not, is insignificant because it also forms part of the general political context. What can we say here today when he made sure that the Prime Minister said everything in his interview last night? Tell us what, Minister? That it was the government's mistake that he didn't get money with the 20th-February agreement, so just as if he was his personal consumer loan? The consequence of your choice has also led to the 'dangling' of liquidity. They are the ministers of your Government, Mr Minister, who say that 'you are now lifting the bottom of the barrel'. It's your choice. Instead of addressing the country's serious and urgent problems, you also operate in this communication bill, noticing. As previous SYRIZA colleagues have said, ERT workers must be justified because they helped with the prevalence of SYRIZA. Is that your logic, Minister? The other workers who lost their job in all areas, in the public and private sectors, how will they be justified? With other bills that are deferred and referred to in the future? In order to return to timeliness - because nothing is irrelevant, everything is interconnected - the prime prime minister admitted in his interview last night that his election commitments were basically only election promises, off-site and time and, of course, the threats to referendum, half-for-elections, the voters and drachmas of SYRIZA are inclined to communicate, because only communicate with this bill, Minister, causing greater instability in the country. Today I remind you of the British Ministry of Foreign Affairs' directive to tourists coming to Greece to have cash and coins because ATMs may be closed. How does stability in this country become established with your policy? That way?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u363	ATMs don't have coins.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Voutsi, your genius is nice, but you don't notice me. The directive also says about notes and coins. You have reached the country's liquidity and the country's image at this point, in these three months, because, Minister, while the Prime Minister is calling for national militarisation and political coexistence, he at the same time describes the opposition as 'internal troika'. Mr. Lafazanis likes the theory of the "fifty whale" and Mr. Voutsis in the tactics of the construction of the inner enemy. So you're not honest. As a government, you're not honest. You don't want to crash. It is all the other people who have never been the government of SYRIZA who has led the country to this point, the lack of liquidity, the lack of investment, the lack of public revenue, the collapse of consumption, Minister! Now it's all happened. Don't look strange to you. At this time you are choosing again communications through this particular bill to talk about the "black" in the ERT. With the black one that falls across the country you are thinking about dealing with, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mrs. Anna Vaguea has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because I think I am a man who has learned from my home to respect others and be noble, I would like to begin my speech with the title, I would say, "What is Parliamentary culture and politeness for me." I note systematically, and of course these colleagues are not here at the moment, and I am referring to the PASOK colleagues - but this is happening all the time - and I would say once again - with great graciousness when other Members of Parliament, speakers or rapporteurs are in step, and they are automatically silent when their President, their leader, appears and begins to speak. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I think this is neither polite nor man-made. Also, their Chief, once he finishes his speech, which is usually more than twice the time he is entitled, leaves the Chamber without bothering to listen to the other speakers who are speaking at that time. To me, this is enormously rude. And since I have spoken to the President of PASOK, I would like to say - since everyone here is talking about everything - that is, not just the issue we are discussing - that he is usually talking about this well-known political issue that we all know, the issue of negotiation which we all know is how important it is. Two-three days ago I heard him say that they did not proceed to the fifth evaluation because the troika had them the conditions to reduce wages and pensions further. That is why they did not proceed to the fifth evaluation. What are we supposed to do now? They're calling us to do what they're supposed to do, aren't they? Of course, I understand their panic and displeasure because this government, despite the loop set up by it, manages and legislates and brings bills. I would like to say that I personally admire my fellow Members and ministers who manage to make these bills - it is not easy - and above all to implement them. Here again, I will make a comment: when Mr Georgiadis passed the humanitarian crisis bill in one of the many interventions he makes, he said: 'Well, as you are doing, at the rate you are going and in six months if you are going to implement it'. Mr. Georgiadis isn't here, of course. If he was here, I'd say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u367	Tell them to us and we'll transfer them to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u368	Yeah, yeah. It's okay. You'll tell him. Tell him it's begun and applied within 20 days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u369	Application filed. Nobody took money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u370	Okay, well, this government is doing something too. It's kind of effective. So I come to our point: I want to say that the power of television is enormous. We all know that. I belong to a generation, that generation which, as a citizen, and as an artist, saw this happen: with the appearance of television, and in particular of private television, has changed the landscape of information, entertainment and culture in our country. Some of us artists, who were unaccessable and were not the favorite children of the bands, found ourselves excluded from the possibility of informing our work and striving to bring culture and art even to the last villages of our country - see, Thessaic Theatre - only with our powers. And the only support we had in those years was public television and radio, when she was lucky to have good, honest and inspired administration. In short, I would like to say with this example that the responsibility of public television is enormous, not only for information but also for culture. I, as a man of culture, want to insist and focus on it. It is an opportunity at last for public television to play this role. Article 3 of the bill states that the services of the "ERT SA" must respond to the cultural development of the country and to the preservation of the Greek language. Minister, this is very important. For me Greek language has been diagnosed, it has been brutally abused by the media in recent years, as has culture. I also want to focus on the point that it refers to the effort of national and productive reconstruction through this bill. I believe that it can play a very large and important role in promoting the products of local societies, be they the products of the land, be they spirit and culture, or contribute to the tourist projection of our country, the wonderful areas of our country, which need this support. Mr President, at this point I would like to do something that I do not know if it is within what is allowed to be done in this House, but say that I am talking about, that it is a continuation of my voice, the sound document you are going to hear. I hope the technology doesn't betray me. [[Here is a sound extract from ERT's programme.]] I wrote it myself when it happened with a TV camera and today I isolated the audio documento. I shall submit it to Parliament's minutes too - not that they do not know - and that is what I am ending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, too. Mrs. Anagnostopoulos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a preliminary remark before I begin. I respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which, however, presupposes a minimum of respect for colleagues. For almost three months, I can see that the majority of Members have been playing almost the role of the 'glastra' in the crusade of the narcissism of the stars, who are already far beyond the time already given by the Rules of Procedure. This is a mere obscene visualization of the House. "We're not looking at the TV. The TV's staring at us. Her gaze, whether qualitative or not, has undertaken to immobilize us", in the wording of Christos Vakalopoulos. Since television, whether public or not, has by definition the role of immobilising, it is very important that who and how defines its framework of operation, its framework and its rules of democratic operation. Public television, as it shapes and forms within the public space, works inconsistently. It is immobilising, but at the same time it produces mobility, because the system of public television, public service broadcasting is inextricably linked to the democratic, social and cultural needs, but also to the demands of every society. This means that public service broadcasting is configured by many factors and is obliged to be subject to dialectical relations, as they are made up in the public area. The "black" to ERT, therefore, in June 2013 was a direct hit in the public space, but mainly, directly hitting society itself, in the very sense of the citizen. It was reappointed in the same way as all public institutions, teachers, health care, etc. The workers were detained and reformed - it was abolished, instead of improving - the ERT reformed. In view of the contributions made by the Opposition today and yesterday and despite the individual issues, which can be a ground for fruitful discussion, I have seen the political and ideological divide between us. During the opposition, particularly for New Democracy, as Mr Vorides said, public television is almost useless, and that is because freedom for Mr Voridis is a product of private immunity. For the Left, however, freedom is a political concept and, on this basis, the notion of a citizen is shaped. With the opening up of the ERT, in addition to the recruitment of workers who have been violently made redundant, this government assumes the responsibility of each government to define the rules for the democratic operation of the public space for information, culture and the dissemination of goods of speech and art. Thus, public broadcasting is re-engaging a continuous path for democratisation, both public space and citizens. This first cures this bill. Public broadcasting is not qualitative in general and is vague because it has some cultural samples, which can also be screened as a museum species. Public broadcasting is qualitative when it becomes a field of democratisation, when it becomes the spearhead of communication and dialogue with the public of a new reformist, and therefore a clear ideological signal, but which is open to public criticism and is not covered by an ideologically, private sap. We are remembered by the oldest incision created in 1981 and through public television, when the then PASOK undertook to spread a new ideological mark "National Resistance - Civil" when it took over, that is to say, pluralizing the public space and restricting it, putting an adversarial awe to the nationalist position until that time. The problem with the ERT that became sinful was that a party whole, which had a dissolutionary heterogeneous heterogeneous heterogeneous system, had no stigma, because they coexisted not merely uneven programmes, but also an aesthetic of customer relations with a qualitative seriousness, which it did not stir, was not surprised, it did not enthusiasm, it did not cause, that is, the citizens, as public television did at some great times. Its programme, therefore, did not succeed in being an overall proposal for culture, because the state itself did not want to have any proposals for culture in public crisis. Especially in recent years, ERT has been a summit without a peak and view where large cultural samples have been involved with garbage. Governments, therefore, who were in power, were bothering to draw up a program for culture, to spread it to the municipality, to put it in crisis, but used the ERT for customer relations and services "the other day", as they did with all other public institutions. In this context, important cultures were lost. The account of a neo-liberal European greatideism, which was useful for political power at the time, particularly during the Simitis period, took it by privileged delegation from political power, because it was not subject to the municipality's judgment, so neither were the governments behind it. Thus, the conditions for a privatised public space were formulated with large private channels, which were still being sewed into privileged and opaque relations with the political system. Be careful, I do not mean all private channels, for example, for regional channels, despite the logic of competition, it has not been the same fate. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] In terms of culture, private channels, they reproduced private kits, which were inaugurated by the junta: "Patris, religion, family". They thus reproduced all the facilitations of immobilising the individual and not central to mobilising the citizens. Racism, sexism, xenophobia and in the memorial years an intimidating provincial Europeanism have given the ideological signal in recent years. Private television forms a privatised public space, without the municipality's possibility of intervention, and this was particularly useful in both modern and memorandum governments. With this bill, the government does not reproduce NERIT's logic. It claims to ensure a multi-speaking public space for information and culture, for which it will be judged. It will be judged whether it ensures pluralism and democratic functioning, as the bill promises. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is only guaranteed in one way: the constant control by the citizens, but on condition that there are citizens. The current government assumes this responsibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be too late, Mr President. This abandonment of culture, the content of information and aesthetics in the hands of individuals with the closure of ERT has produced a culture of diffuse in Parliament as well. A culture of "Adonization" of Parliament, where ideological stigma is lost under cries, show, or under voices of supposedly prudence and pragmatism. Ideological controversies and conflicts, such as politics, are transformed into a personal show, where sexist expressions, calls for realism, national salvation, want to detoxify politics, as a result of an abstract image of private television, where all the good people fit and all are the same. I firmly believe that Parliament is legislating and that is why it is the very place of thought, which is produced in a context of ideological controversy. This House avoids ideological controversy. I conclude, Mr President, and apologise for the delay, saying that I was listening to Mr Venizelos in the government's programme statements when he said in his statement: 'Story is above all, above and beyond democracy'. At first I had seen a common magnificence of Mr Venizelos, in which many of his greatities condensed. Then I realized that the ideological limit between the Right and the Left was set by this wording. "The story is above all, the nation is above all, the country is above all. There is nothing you can do." These are some of the wordings of Mr Venizelos and many others here. However, all of these "most of all" means that there is a "under all" and that is society and the citizens, we are all of us who have felt deeply insulted over these years of the memoranda. For the Right there is always one thing: the noble nation, which must obey, society and citizens. And in the name of this noble nation we make alliances with the great powers, which we think we should do and that is patriotic. We, however, claim our ideological stigma and say one thing, that there is no nation without society and that one cannot do privileged alliances with any great power, without having regard to society. So our ideological mark is demanding it both on public television and here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u373	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Gymnasium of Agrinio (A' Department). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Efstathia Georgopoulos - Saltaris has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everyone in this Chamber during the previous parliamentary term will remember that we had tabled a motion of censure on 7-11-2013 on 7-11-2013 on the occasion of the police intervention in the ERT Radio Memorandum, as we considered that the most extreme form of reactionary monumental management was culminating in this action. At that time, we had welcomed the fact that at the level of democratic operation the three parties had then "done" - within introductory forms - only in 2013 to recruit the metro workers, the seamen, the middle-education teachers, to drop the black in the ERT and to take over the Radiomegaro. The constant violations of democratic legitimacy and the continued imposition of economic policies - stable and permanently against small and medium-sized incomes - have resulted in growing popular discontent, which has sent today's Opposition - which is absent today, is not one here - on 25 January 2015 on the margin. The treatment of so many authoritarian and anachronistic measures has already begun with the relaunch of democratic institutions. We also institutionally restore democratic legitimacy, as we committed ourselves to the Greek people. And we're not Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday memorials and Monday, Wednesday, Friday, we're on the rocks, as Mr. Vorides said this morning, to comment on it. Of course, this has been said by our President, the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras. But I had to answer that, because this is really the case, other days we are memorial and other days we are about to throw the country on the rocks. To continue, you will have to arm yourselves with the gentlemen of the counterpopulation with a great deal of patience for the great and small defeats that are awaiting you. But your great defeat in this case came from the ERT workers themselves and the NRA's local stations in the past two years with the undeniable social and cinematic resonance they have created. A resonance that raised the question of real resistance to the enforcement of the memorandums showed on the table which social groups - workers - and which democratic collectives - unions, federations - are the natural shield of society as a whole against the Memorandum Status imposed by the previous government, but also the 'three corner of the interlocutory'. We are today defending this conquest and we are taught by this model of how ERT should be set up again. Reintroducing the name ERT and legally we defend the very progressive continuity of our country, but also an important logo of international prestige and symbolism. Without a reunification against the workers of the structure he has built to satisfy the wishes of the lenders, but also of the domestic mediator, the previous coup d'état, we are re-establishing those who have lost their jobs in an illegal and undemocratic manner and have not retired or moved to another place. ERT's sacked workers kept, as in the Tower NRA in Ilias, where I am elected, alive these historical frequencies. They did not let the black one cover the voice of the real information, of the fighting journalism. They gave and give with real braveness this difficult battle. This draft law provides for the reopening of the ERT, but also for the upcoming democratisation of administration, the fight against bureaucracy, e-government and the restoration of injustices, the possibility of imposing a military mission or any form of order as a measure to counter the strike. The progressive-democratic sign of these legislative initiatives leaves no room for misinterpretation of our pursuit of the complete overthrow of the former regime. We know that this legislative initiative is annoying the big-fashioned ones who, for their part, will increase their aggression towards the current government. This, however, not only does it convince us, but on the contrary confirms our argument on the need to restructure the media area and achieve pluralist information for citizens. In addition, the "black" to the ERT was imposed for the service of the large channels, the scandalous concession of the digital signal to the DIGEA, which means loss of 14 million a year, the intention to sell the building to Agia Paraskevi by means of JAPD and the dismissal of workers in the name of the "Success story". The New Democracy and the PASOK do everything in their power to commit public broadcasting to the DIGEA regime. I am referring to digital transmitters on a pan-Hellenic scale. The ERT before the "black" had a perfect network of transmitters and transponders throughout the country with more than a thousand transmitters and transponders, covering 99.9% of the population and the geography of Greece. Today it has fewer than fifteen digital transmitters. All these damages will be controlled against the Greek public. Justice will be done. We'll get over the deadlocks. In the end, they will fail their plan to submit to this monopoly and to state television. Thus, this bill is located right at the opposite end of this design and practice, but in the near future there will be even more integrated interventions. We are planning with a financial plan for a balanced budget and a decision on financial management for the past, shaping the necessary conditions for the viability of the ERT. We are planning an ERT open to society, as it provides for the setting-up of social control councils for viewers, institutions and social reasonings, an ERT that does not seek profit, but also does not burden the taxpayer's deficits, an ERT aeronautics in the effort of national and productive reconstruction, a body of democracy and culture. In conclusion, I would like to say that I fully support this legislative initiative, but at the same time I would like to congratulate and thank all the employees of ERT and Athens, but also the regional stations, who have, throughout this period, provided genuine information and inspiration for our tested people with regard to the regime of terror and intimidation imposed by the mid-term misinformation of national contractors - canals. It is time again to bloom pluralism, validity, information for citizens in the country, as well as for those who fail. It is time to use the valuable archive of the ERT, the musical sets, which together with other programs will contribute to entertainment, education, awareness raising, but also the aesthetic elevation of small and large ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u375	Thank you. Mrs Kanellopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u376	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the excellent documentary of Giorgos Ageropoulou, the market, Mr Alfouzos, owner of many of them, including SKAI, said he was disturbed by the existence of a public broadcaster, because, if such an entity exists, private competition is being distorted. As much as I did, I could not find any more honest and honest - I must admit that - argument in favour of the closure of the ERT. This should have been done by Mr Kedicoglou on the night when he made the choices of the three-party government announced the closure of the ERT, instead of smuggling and slandering workers, instead of invoking legality, instead of talking about waste and dispersal of public money, as if another forty-seven years had been running, appointed, decided, expensively paid "joint", special advisers, scribes and pharisans. Today, we all know that this was the only way to grant the digital signal to the private channels of interacting, to the same channels that have been plunging the country's public frequencies and the only way to find themselves on the streets of two and a half thousand people, which at least allowed Mr Mitsotakis to celebrate without pretext. It was also the only way for the ERT's position to set up a poster caricature, a government liar, a discriminatory pseudo-information tool that reached such extreme points of party propaganda, distortion and exclusion of the other view that your people could not serve. Otherwise, we'll make the country of North Korea! I would like to go beyond that, of course, by welcoming the reopening of the ERT. The commitment of the Left - opposition at that time - is now being implemented, as it was due, by the left-wing government. I do not want to refer to what many of my colleagues have already referred to. Management and information have been covered or will be covered - I am sure - in an entirely adequate manner by other colleagues. I want to stand on the part of culture. I will repeat, Minister, despite the welcome improvements, which you have bravely made, and which we very much appreciate - our initial assessment that this is a bill that is unlikely in favour of administration and information, while culture is clearly wronged, the poor relative of public television. Two small remarks. On the basis of the Council's resolution of the representatives of the Member States of the European Union, in which it is recognised that public service broadcasting performs a cultural, social and democratic function in favour of the common interest, it is important that there should be in the transitional first administration and representatives of the associations of the cultural area, namely the Pan-Hellenic Theatre Federation. Especially on the board of directors, if - and rightly so - a representative of the CSCE, representing the pillar of information, is provided for, on the basis of the parity, it would be appropriate for the other party to be represented, also in culture. I am referring to Article 7. Two. On Article 3, in the provisions of paragraph 4, which refers to the performance of the famous 1.5%, I would like to make two comments. The first concerns labelling - the correct labelling in our view - of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. In this respect, it states ‘for the application of this provision it would be appropriate to clarify whether the annual turnover of the ERT SA is taken into account in the fee’. We're totally in agreement. The second concerns the interconnection of film production with the support of book publishing. We disagree, Minister, not of course because we refuse to support publications and the book, but because we do not think that one should be at the expense of the other. Do not forget that many of the businessmen, the publishers, can with such a book a week - and we know the kind of books they are moving - end with their obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that some people do not like to recall that ERT if it has become established in the consciousness of the world, it owes it mainly to the memory of the old good ERT. We know that some are disturbed by the reference to "Loxandra", "Pantheas", "Theatre of Monday", "Third Program" by Manos Hatzidakis. They prefer the "Principalists" obviously. I will answer invoked writings by veteran Robirus Manthoulis. Roviro Manthoulis says: "In April 1976 with the new program that we were uploading to ERT - "The Theater of Monday", "Parascini", a film, a discussion, the "Photographer of the Village", "Twenty Years Before", the musical nights, the quality film of Sunday with the prologues of Yiannis Bakoyannopoulou, "Every Messinari", with which we finally brought live programs to Greek TV - and before YENED with American and Greek siririals, it was double viewing by the ERT when I took the ERT, the terms were reversed. To think that ERT's "Theatre Monday" had a 95% view in the villages of Pindos, not only because it was a good show, but also because it was ERT's. We note that after 2008 ERT did not produce mythology programs - Greek mythoplasty, as it should have been - inactivated culturally and substantially silenced long before the "black". And there are few people who say that this was deliberately done as it worked in favour of the private trust in the cheap show. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, out there, an army of people from all over the range of professions, culture-related entertainment and the spectacle, despite the economic and social crisis, despite the stunning of the bad taste, despite the contempt and the exclusions that exist, continue to create and produce. They are waiting for and can and must offer the relaunch of ERT, contributing substantially to the educational and quality of entertainment that a public broadcaster must have to have so that he is genuinely young and directed at all the social strata. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One final comment: The best institutional framework, and if we make it, will be changed to "empty shirt" if everyday life, entertainment and information continue to be delivered to the empire of Kitch, yellowism, mornings and lifestyle. In September 2014, Rodolf Moronis wrote on a tweet: "If you declare that you want to make something independent, objective and qualitative, but you don't mean it, don't give it to someone who means it." Minister, I quote: If you declare that you want to make something independent, objective and qualitative, and you mean it, don't assign it to someone - those who don't mean it, so that only a logo on television screens remains. Always remember that her lost signal is the lost signal of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mrs. Kanellepoulou. Mr Simeon Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. Just a few minutes. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to begin my speech to restore the reality and the fairness of the matter, on the occasion of a reference made by a previous colleague - my colleague from the Opposition, also from Magnesia, from where I come from - to NRA Volos as an example. It is a unfortunate example, and let me say it. First of all, he referred to ERT's historic regional radio station. It is one of the three stations mentioned in the founder of the Greek Radiophony. It is Athens, Thessaloniki and Volos Radio Station. But it is not only the history of Volos Radio, ERA Volos, which makes the example and unfortunate reference unfortunate. It is the great offer of the NRA's Volos Radio Station and the great bond of the NRA Volos with our local society. For many decades ERA Volos was the expression of the local society, it was much more the expression of the great identity of the city of Volos and the wider region. He was the expressor of the identity of the great social, labor and challenging games of Volos, as well as the expression of the spirit, the production of the region, the continuity of the Parentry of Saratsis, Delmuzos. NRA Volos for many decades has not been the important body of information and entertainment. He was the only public radio operator for informing and recreational people in our region, much more in the labour districts of Volos and in the refugee city of New Ionia. It was the only means from which residents took their information and was their daily company of what they did. It was a unfortunate example, however, because my colleague said - and I have no reason to question it - that as the only Member of the House, he was never asked to speak from the Volos. I assure you, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, that I am a member of the ruling party, and I have never spoken to the Volos ERA, or to election and much more post-election. I don't understand what criteria they're getting to invite someone to talk to a radio station. As far as I know, none of us of the five total government MPs in Magnesia - at least post-election - has appeared on the microphones of ERA Volos. But we must also say the right thing, because it is unfair to the workers of the Volos ERA, what has been said. They are workers who, with a few means, but with a great deal of effort and sacrifice, have kept all these decades in the front line NRA Volos and are open as a heartbeat during this whole period of many months after the "black" to ERT and NRA. The programme at the NRA Volos is not managed by former workers, currently fired, by the NRA Volos and much more by the reporters of the radio station. They're self-managed emissions from volunteers. But the unfortunate example, I believe, also strengthens what we are seeking and highlighting through this bill as a central concept of this operation. I will only mention one of the many things that are mentioned in the bill. We note the need for professionals and workers to be responsible for the administration, but also for the submission of the programme, with the participation of employees' representatives in the administration of the ERT, two employees, one of whom is a representative of the journalistic world - and I am pleased that, after thirty-five years of service in the media profession, they will be elected by universal suffrage. They will not be defined by any government and by any party. I repeat that they will be elected by universal suffrage by all workers. We also put an additional test - we dare and we do so because we seek it - democracy and transparency: the Social Audit Council in every area where the ERT and ERA station operates. We dare and want to do so because we want people's control of everything that has to do with our political and government activity. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some twenty-fifths of Members have spoken. Most of them, those from the standpoint of opposition MPs, were out of the question. The other Members who support the government were involved in the reopening of the ERT. The rest of us said he was out. He was given the tone early - and we understood it - by the rapporteur of the New Democracy in her speech. Of the six and a half minutes he spoke, less than two and a half, if I counted correctly, it was for the ERT. And that's to make just one mention, to claim that the whole story is done to get a few hundred employees. In other words, in this speech by the rapporteur, but also in many other similar ones, we have heard other things. We have heard that it will soon be a species inadequacy, not what our minds have easily gone to, but the medicine. We remembered, of course, when both ERT and the whole society were crumbling without anesthetics. We have heard the assurance that for a year we cannot go to elections, even if we want to. I did not understand whether this was a point to the government or to reassure Mr Samara that elections would be held and see the SYRIZA's rate rising. Of course, in the end, we have heard the suggestion that we should make a deal with our lenders soon, which will be close to the agreement that the previous government had made. Thank you, but we won't get that kind of a deal! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We have also heard from another rapporteur or speaker from another party opposed to the government that there is a conflict of interest here. There is a conflict of interest because journalists from the government spoke and they recommended this. So we have a conflict of interest. It would be very pleasant if we could hear about both the interests and the conflict that has to exist in this area with DIGEA. Jerk! Nothing about the truck! A lot of words, but nothing on the subject! As the people say,'very much oil, but from pancakes nothing'! But is their embarrassment understandable, because what do they say about ERT? What do they say about the arbitrary 'black'? What do they say about the lack of a legal base in the shapes they made? What can they say as to whether in the end it was okay to manage it? How much did it cost us both the closure of ERT and the so-called reopening of another public body that they attempted? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These are issues that we need to see, not at one time, but immediately. We need to explore them not in a distant future, but now, let's see if - I say, if - and if there's anything to do with all this. They know we're going to investigate them. That's what they're fighting, and that's what they're worried about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr Ballis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the General School of Anne Brest from France. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis has the floor. Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion on the re-establishment of ERT looks like a journey in time, a journey that wakes up memories of another era, where public broadcasting monopolies citizens' information and became the powerful tool of party propaganda. To be honest, we have never completely left behind us at this time, but - if anything - we have taken some important steps forward, which are clearly uncovered, more refined and always in the context of creative ambiguity that distinguishes you. How else can one see and understand the wording of Article 2(2) that ERT should contribute to the country's national and productive reconstruction? All right, all right, all right, back up. We are talking about an ERT political annex, as a tool for the implementation of the policy of the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Mr Lafazani, rather than as it should be for the benefit of the citizens, in order to assess the work and the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I will dare to echo what colleagues from SYRIZA have been silently thinking and perhaps political correctness, but also the game of party controversy will not let them say. The State, the Government, must exercise control over the public service broadcasting. He was right to remind you that the Member, Mr Tsukalas, who was responsible for his philosophical references, has the ability and intrinsic tendency to privatise the public interest in modern societies. And you know why? Because he perceives it as himself, as his own, so as partial. What we are debating today is not self-evident and, ultimately, differentiated, is what the government thinks of the kind of checks it is legitimate to exercise in a democratic society and on the basis of what procedure it will block this state trend as much as possible. So I would like to explain to you that I am going to adopt the exact same view that your Member has adopted in the bill. We all agree, for example, that public television must be removed from the parties. But when is this objective best served? When you have a supervisory board as independent as possible of the parties, authorised to appoint its administration, to control the budget, so also the kind of reward fee, or when the administration is designated by the Minister of State and the governmental majority of Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency? How the members of the Board are guaranteed. which are not selected under party criteria? What is the prediction of transparency regarding their qualifications? You have not even anticipated the candidates' public hearing, as was at least established in other laws. You denounce the opposition that in practice canceled the independence of the supervisory board. If so, correct it with improved suggestions, but do not remove its existence. Do not cancel the only blockage that exists between public television and the government, which helped to exercise public control of the second, unless you wish to take the slogan 'first time left' and guarantee an alternative governmental control. But say it clearly. We all agree on a sustainable public television. How do you guarantee it, however, when - you will allow me to say so - you are abolishing the legal relationship between the fee and the results of the previous year? What, in simple words, Minister, will you do this when you are in practice canceling the principle of a balanced budget that governs the operation of today? As far as social control is concerned, Article 10 which provides for the establishment of control boards by the ERT Board is a real scandal, Minister. That is why there cannot be a control body set up by the control officer. In other countries, their formation is determined by law without any participation of the Board of Directors. I wonder if this isn't a revival of the '80s, then what is it? You did not provide any convincing explanation why the remuneration of the employees of the new ERT would be determined as a result of the collective agreement. If nothing else, n. It was correctly substantiated by all civil servants in the wider public sector and the CECF under the single wage scheme. Let's see how the big picture is shaped. A party controlled administration of ERT which will negotiate with a partyly controlled administration their salaries. If you combine this with my previous comment on the possibility of arbitrary increase of the reward fee, you will understand that "Yiannis is buying and Yiannis drinks". The new ERT will be more state-controlled than ever. I would like to finish, Mr President, with a more general comment on the landscape of Greek broadcasting. When in the late 1980s this landscape was formed with the entry of private broadcasting was saluted by everyone, with the exception of a minimum of exceptions, as the first important step towards pluralism, as a step towards an independent of state information manipulation. It is good to remember that if today's agenda has been put on the agenda and we are discussing an independent without party and state-based multi-speaking information, it is largely due to the liberal culture that many journalists have worked on it. So it would be advisable to bring the draft law to the House as soon as possible on the final settlement of frequencies and to settle the matter of the National Broadcasting Council. I would remind you that, in private channels too, there are workers who are honestly doing their work, who are experiencing or have experienced the risk of dismissal which, when they are written or commented on, have at the forefront of their head the respect of journalistic ethics and the control of every authority. Their presence today is more necessary than ever, considering that you have taken care of this bill not to leave any room for effective democratic control of public television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr. Fotius Grass has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u382	We are going through a period when the country is governed by SYRIZA, which is the first time the country has been governed by the left, the left of equality, progress, dignity, the programme of Thessaloniki. So, after giving the money intended for wages and pensions to the International Monetary Fund and having committed the funds of the institutions to pay salaries and pensions, the government decided to honour one of its electoral commitments and to reconstitute ERT. So this is where the question arises: How will ERT be paid? I know the answer. In fact, several of your officials have already spoken about balanced budgets and a fee-pay per electricity supply. But this is exactly where even more questions are born. On the one hand, you're talking about free electricity, and on the other, you're also charging the households? And if you think that the Greek citizen can be extra burdened, do you think that the money should be made available to ERT? And why not make available to other key sectors such as defence, education, health that are currently decomposed? The answer is very simple. You are making such communications moves in order to show that you have finally done something at the whole time that you have done nothing and of course have done nothing to satisfy a very specific portion of your voters and trade unionists. The Golden Dawn clearly believes that there must be a strong and, above all, public broadcaster, who supports pluralism and pluralist information, a broadcaster that will be all Greeks. And if that were the case, we would vote in favour of this bill. However, if one makes a review in the last years of the ERT, one can easily understand that there has been a communication body of the individual government. So what will happen now, after the new reconstitution of the ERT? Will it still be SYRIZA's mouthphone, since the board will be controlled by the government? So what the Greek citizen understands is that you are not, gentlemen of SYRIZA, flesh from the flesh of our people, but you are flesh from the flesh of the old PASOK. And it looks like the first time for the Left, it'll be the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr. Gray. For eight minutes, Mrs Sveroni-Hondonasiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u384	Thank you very much, Mr President. Two days now - and not just! - what we hear all the time is to talk about democracy, about democratic processes, about the democracy of the left and progress, about the democracy of the New Democracy, about the democracy of the socialists, about democracy and democracy. But the real "democracy" and "popular state" are excluded. Whenever a client state arises, democracy dies and where democracy works, it is not a client state. In other words, these are concepts and realities which are radical and by definition opposing, incomprehensible and incompatible. One concept is 'democracy' and the other is 'popular state'. One undoes the other and it is impossible to coexist. And where attempts to compromise have been made, these attempts are fraud. They don't end up in deception, but it's direct fraud from the start. The client state is the exact equivalent of a foreign occupation. What is the client state? It is the commercialisation of the relationship between power and the citizen. It's politics. On what terms, though? Not in terms of politicians, but in terms of purchase, under the marketing rules. The authority "selling" appointments to the public, and the citizen as a client now buys his appointment with his vote and with his army in the party that appointed him and is now a "strategic". This logic of sequencing also includes large institutional functions with top responsibility. That is what defence is, justice is, it is responsible for informing the citizen, that is, ERT, and the free movement of ideas. In this range of logic of captivity is that appointments are made to the leaderships of the Armed Forces, the Supreme Courts, the Insurance Funds, the Hospitals, the Public Broadcasting. There is tight hug and democracy has gone for a walk, Minister, and there is just a client state. Do you know the fatality and disastrous what it is? While it is the client state that is devastated by democracy, it cannot function out of democracy, that is, it uses the rules of democracy and is waging them. These rules work. The client state refuses any democratic institutions, no functioning of democracy. It simply changes the meaning of the institutions and functions of democracy and the state, that is, power, it no longer serves the municipality, it no longer serves the people, but primaryism - you will allow me to say - the self-interest, the self-concentration of the instincts of self-preservation and even the domination of pleasure. In all the media, more or less the news reports are about the same. What's going on? Through this, the client state operates, and through these bulletins, the client state enters our homes like a ruthless villain. Unfortunately, our society - and I am sorry to say this - has just become a party, a client state. These, you know, I haven't thought about them in the first place. It is one of the things I have heard here and in particular of what she said - and I agree with her in many respects - the majority rapporteur. Mrs Kritsis said so, and I agree with her. What did he actually say? He was talking about what I told you about the client state. We do not want the ERT of the past, we do not want the ERT which is the government's long-handed hand. We want ERT to remind nothing of the past, without clienteles, without arbitrary, uncomplicated, an ERT open to society which will serve and which will apologise to it. This means that so far nothing has been found in all of this. Now the lot comes and falls to you, Minister, because it is true that there is not one of my colleagues here, in whatever areas they may be, who does not want to have a public broadcaster. The question, however, is whether you can do it with the "minotaur" of the client state. Can you really stand up to the situation? You know, it's some things that worry me negatively. I want to believe that you have all the goodwill, all the good will. It is in Article 10 that our special speaker, Mr Rabbit, referred to the Social Audit Board, is also mentioned. As it sounds, it's pompous and heavy. Who will it be from? It will be made up of social collective institutions and they will be - it says - a representative sample and a joint ERT. These people will have ideology? These people will have 'believe'? These people from whom will they be appointed there? These people will be a social observatory. By whom will they be appointed? They will, however, be appointed to that administrative district by the board of directors. And can you tell me, Minister, if anyone does not belong to this big party you say, the leftist, the progressive one, will he be able to appoint there? [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] I will only remind you of this: Ioannis Metaxas - you know - what he said the great 'no' appointed a minister of labour as a communist. Do you know why I'm telling you this? For indeed, the great people do not see the people enclosed if they say 'left', if they declare 'right' or 'nationalists', but they care about the substance. But that is what you can do when you really operate nationally and when you really are governed by what you say you feel within you by these democratic values and principles. Because, you know, democracy is according to what it feels like and how it feels. That's what I found out. Do you know why I'm saying leftovers? The term 'left' and 'left' and 'left' and what role is played in common, first established by the editorial section PASOK, which made the 'left' career condition, and you know who did this specifically? He did it for the Atlantics and certainly the disadvantaged. From then on, you don't have to have a lot of qualifications. And just be disadvantaged, it is enough that you say you are 'left'. Once you make this statement, everything is forgiven. Otherwise, there will definitely have to be a check. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I really want to think that you will, indeed, make a serious effort. I have no reason to believe you. I believe you, as I thought the previous ones. I'm just a civilian. Now, I've been elected a congressman. I want to believe that everyone has pure intentions and that everyone loves this place and the people. I want you to succeed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. What I would like you to pay very attention to is the following: in Article 3(3), it says 'the radio and television broadcasts of the ERT, as well as the content of its web isotopes, are governed by the principles of objectivity, completeness'. I go along with the following: "... the preservation of the quality of the Greek language, the promotion of the Greek culture and the bridge with the cultures of the other peoples." Because I am not a poet and because I am referring to the language and the language is the seal of our own people, I will only finish with two lyrics from the "Excellency" of our great poet and Nobelist, Elytes: "The language gave me Greek. My only concern is my tongue. My only concern is my language with the first words of Hymn." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u385	Mr Papapas, despite the fact that you have requested the floor, your colleague, Mr Gregos, has the floor to speak. You want to talk and talk next?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u386	No, Mr. Gregos will talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u387	Okay. Mr. Pappas will make use of his dentistry. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you will see that I will give him eleven minutes of speaking time. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u388	It has been five years since Georgios Papandreou announced our country's appeal to the International Monetary Fund and the support mechanism. Many people expected, then, that in Greece we would see scenes that would simulate with scenes of African or South American impoverished countries, with tails to the supermarkets, with kids begging and people running to the banks to save their money. Ultimately, the people showed us a fighting spirit. He went out to the streets, but he went out to protest, to say "no" to the memorandum, to show a life stop that characterizes the Greek at every time. This unpredictable factor, the people, who fear dark decision-making centres, those who are trying to control world economic and political life, was prevented from acting and demanding their independence and freedom by applying the 'Sok and Awesome' doctrine, which was not in itself the memorial, but it was this dark matter that has not yet been investigated in depth. And I'm talking about this dark case called Marfin with the murder of young people at the bank at the University. This was intended - and they finally succeeded - to terrorise the people and to suspend mobilisation and mass reactions. Cobbing point was Marfin, this case. It was a key point for those who know and know or can see truths behind reality. You shaking the people and shaking them, right and left. The previous governments were ready to take the army down on the road to subjugate popular wrath. They recently uncovered it, retired Heads of Staff. And it is to the credit of the then leadership of the Armed Forces that he did not give in to political pressures for military intervention in internal security operations. Mr Kammens tells us at 6 o'clock this year that the complaints will be dealt with. We're waiting. But we ask: is there really an investigation going on? Have the Retired Heads been called to the Ministry to say what they know? We're coming to today. So we may not see any unscrupulous children in the streets, but we see children fainting from ashes in schools, while party friends and, in many cases, patrons of the rest of the parties, i.e. the rivals of interlocutory, the “great sharks”, continue to enjoy their rich and good life, unaffected by the tolerance of many. They all have the courage to display this provocative life. Our people's domestic economic potential continues to be converging their wealth. You know, full of life style magazines with these images. At the same time Greeks tighten their lips and say low-speaking to each other "Where will this situation go?" Really, where's this situation going? How much is the Prime Minister willing to give the loan sharks and lenders? From the announcement that the Memorandum will be abolished with an article, we have passed on to the prospect of imposing new measures with the cloak on the assumption of reforms. New measures. From one article we passed the fourteen measures, most of which are taxes, new taxes. There will be no reduction in wages and pensions. The government is stressing it right and left. They stress consciously false ones, because the new taxes will again drown the easy target, the wage earners, the pensioners, the employees of the private and public sectors. New taxes, ladies and gentlemen, means further reduction in the income of the Greek average. The people will again pay the'marble'. Because those who I have just mentioned, the business groups, the sharks, are not willing to put their hands in the pocket - even a little - to resemble the national benefactors of the past. Instead, they continue to steal the Greek people in every way. Eleven billion euros owe the banks Greek business groups. In a question from the Golden Dawn in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on March 9th, the spokesman, referring to the relevant publication of the magazine “ENICA”, brought the question of eight business groups that owe a lot of money. So we asked about the accumulated debt obligations that are not served either as a whole or as much as they were, at the same time as the helpless Greek, impoverished by right-wing memorial policies and left-wing neolimonal policies, is losing his sleep, worrying about his home, his work, the future of his children. These, therefore, oil and construction companies, with media connections, enjoy privileged relations with both the banking system and the governments concerned. So we asked the Ministers nine questions, conveying their thoughts and questions to each Greek, in order to bring the new government before its responsibilities and obligations towards the people. In this Chamber, Mr Drasakis, now Vice-President of the Government, said he would reveal the names of the oligarchs within this House. We have called on and called on the new coup d'état to conduct a rapid investigation to reveal financial and penal interventions by these business groups, which are, in the majority, the hard core and lever of the Memorandum Policy. For their own interests are the memorandum policies. We were therefore calling on the government to activate the ethnicly beneficial and philosophical measure of seizing, statizing or socialising these groups, as a national, fair and social policy demands. At that time, we received a general answer from Minister Nicoludi, who informed us that he had requested an investigation by the prosecutor of economic crime, to end up in his reply: "An inconsistent action does not go beyond what is, in this case, the Golden Dawn, since this is in the absence of a special reference to persons and things characterised by such vagueness and generality, in order to make it impossible to investigate them". What don't you understand, gentlemen of the government? Is their Vice President anointed? So the one who would reveal the names? Because you are instantly evading, I would like to say a name: 'Bobolas'. Does that mean anything to you? Is Bobball gonna clean up with 1.8 million? With 1.8 million entered the swimming pool of Siloam? We, as I pointed out yesterday, have our ally the truth. And we're walking our political struggle with a guide to the truth and only this one. That is what we want, and that is all we want. We are nationalists and 'national is what is true', as Dionysian Solomon said. Where we see injustice, we will denounce it at any cost, until we have - with the help of the people, but also with your own - this political force, so that we can heal this injustice. That is why, for a year and a half, we are now full of 'golden-growers', mud, telexes on the large systemic channels. Because some people in this Chamber, blinded by their archemania and their ambition, feel safe and think that these words do not touch them, I shall refer to another question that we have asked, to solve the world's question because you hate us and fight us so much. Question: Irrigation mission to banks abroad by political leaders, i.e. from neo-democrats, passives, systolics, etc. They all made money abroad. Samaras and Venizelos, at a time when they asked the Greek people for sacrifices to recover the economy, they said, made money abroad. That's not what I'm saying in my mind. They come from the Bank of Greece itself for the period 2010-2012. Beyond Samaras and Venizelos, the list includes a hundred seventy-four Members of the Greek Parliament. In their overwhelming majority of passons and neo-democrats. So the question is that we have also communicated it to the President of Parliament to deal with it. We have only received the answer from Mr Nicholas that sending foreign emigration to him is not a criminal offence. I mean, the story itself on the left. Whatever happened on the right. Legal, but not moral. So these seventy - four MPs and political leaders may be hiding behind a falsified legality, but lack morality. They don't have morals. So by using the captive "α" - you know Greek - you can find the true word that characterizes these hundreds of seventy-four. You, then, are seventy-four, at least, accountable to the Greek people. But you are accountable to the Golden Dawn, because we, as a party and as a person, have been thoroughly audited by the ILO, and we are perfectly clear both from a legal and moral point of view. So, with what moral right do you exaggerate us? How do you smuggle us? Why do you want to put us on the sidelines? The people see and know why you are the margin, the political margin, you are the real danger to the interests of the people. With regard to - and I am closing down, Mr President - the issue of the draft law has been mentioned in detail by our speakers, but also by our rapporteur, Mr Lagos, I would just like to add something about the position of the New Democracy and what I have heard: are these great peoples of the New Democracy completely losing their sense of the measure? Because they are revealed every day and from this Step. They keep underestimating the people and exalting them. It was heard at noon by a neo-democratic lips: 'No people can lift up any more if they have no money'. What are you telling us? Do you have contact with reality? Do you know history or because you were born with the golden spoon in your mouth, have you lost your contact and relevance to reality? You have lost your contact with the problems of the people. The people are for you only for the pins. The people are to make fun of him, in every election to intimidate him by you and your partners, the media, as you did last January. You referred, finally, to the saying that politics is the art of practicable. Politics is indeed the art of practicable, but we must not forget that politics can - but I must stress at least - force the power of the people. So, be aware that no matter how much you want this people to keep them asleep, this people can once again gain power and bring national victories to their attention. The history of newer Hellenism teaches. Of course, these things and thoughts...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Pappa, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u390	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just one sentence, please. These thoughts about foreign slavery are summer night dreams, imagining fine letters, because you don't have eyes to see beyond your golden cage. A lot of people here in New Democracy were asked to do their self-criticism. That's what we recommend. Will the parties involved in the Memorandum Elbow Party, the New Democracy, self-criticism, wonder what does that mean? It's a unknown word for you. This is an unknown word for the afflicted majestic right. Because, you know, self-criticism means self-righteous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and four educational sessions from the 3rd Gymnasium of Agrinio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The next five colleagues, to know and be in the Chamber, are Mr Antony Gregos, Mr George Ursouzidis, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, Mr Gregory Psarianos and Mr Ilias Ioannides. It is a request, because they are forty Members to speak for eight minutes, which means seven hours, without the Members of Parliament who are at least another hour, to keep the time to finish at midnight. Mr. Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I don't need the whole time. You know very well that it was a desire for the rest of the Members of the Golden Dawn to be found in the Chamber and placed. We heard that democracy received a very big blow in June 2013 with the closure of the ERT. More - and you should all recognise this, since no one has the right to say 'I don't know', 'I didn't see' - was the blow that was suffered by democracy and the Constitution on September 28, 2013 when they were arrested under the known illegal procedures - by destroying the Constitution, I repeat again - the Chief of Golden Dawn and MPs. These arrests, speaking of television, took place in front of the cameras. I remember characteristics it was eight at night, right at the time of the news notes, when the Chief and the other Members of the Golden Dawn got out of the GAA building in handcuffs. This was, of course, announced by the previous government. They just hadn't been able to go through some TV program, write, you know, tomorrow - the arrest of the Golden Dawn MPs will take place tomorrow. Some Members, however, had made sure that all this was leaking. We saw all-armed policemen, we saw hoods, we saw cuffs, and I repeat again that this show will stay in history. We have heard of democratic normality. To date, at the moment we are talking, this democratic normality continues to be violated. And in order to bring about genuine democratic normality, they must immediately return to their place, here in the House building, in the Helmets placed by the Greek people, the illegally persecuted MPs of the Golden Dawn. The public television - you are right to say - must be removed from the parties. This is essentially an assumption. It is the assumption that for so many years the parties have used public television to propaganda. In adopting this bill today, Minister, we demand that the bill be passed - because it will be passed - equal treatment for the Golden Dawn. Because it requires the Greek people to see from now on at the panels and the MPs of the Golden Dawn or some legal representative of them. You are committed to this, and I think you will. Otherwise you will continue one of the same. We did not have a step in this, on public television. We've never had a step. It was known who used it, although we paid it and paid it with us and all our voters. We demand equal treatment, we demand transparency, we demand objectivity. We demand programme quality and proper information. We don't know what's happened to the ERT files. We are also thinking of asking a question in the context of parliamentary scrutiny. There are valuable records at the ERT, and we don't know if they're lost. Take note of this, because it is very important. We're talking about a real treasure. There is an explicit obligation for sign language, subtitling and acoustic description to address the needs of people with hearing and vision problems. With regard to the strengthening of cinema and the allocation of 1.5% for the production of films and books, we consider it to be a move that promotes and strengthens culture, but we must say that the regime under which financial aid is normally granted is not clear, so that there are exclusions of persons and ideas, because they are not excellent for the ERT Board, which it will decide. Previous speakers have also referred to the 'DIGEA'. It should be noted that the monopoly position held by the famous DIGEA company in this market is a key element, i.e. the company operating the digital transmission platform. Let us stress that the MEGA, the 'ANT1', the 'SKAI', the 'ALPHA', the 'MAKEDONIA' channel, and in which the 'NERIT' should pay hundreds of millions of euros per year in order to broadcast. We recall that this assignment of digital frequencies resulted from a tender for which only EUR 18 million had to be paid over the next fifteen years, while the minimum cost, according to the independent valuer, had to be EUR 715 million. According to its announcement, the Government intends to review the tender and to open a new on a zero basis. Finally, I should like to say and conclude that we cannot use the workers for party purposes. Don't act like power. Behave as citizens' servants, as nation's servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, too. Coming to Stepma, Mr. George Ursouzidis, I would say that there was a mistake by mistake. After Alexandros Triantafylides, who is next, she is Mrs. Sunday Tentonidou, because he replaced a colleague, and immediately afterwards Mr. Psarianos. Here, Mr. Ursouzidis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is it that connects us to the Greek Radio - Television, and is at the same time so possible to ignore the explicit mandate of the lenders to close it, even at the risk of jeopardising the course of the negotiation? Is this just a memory of public television from our childhood and a sense of loss? Is it just indignation in vulgarity to destroy people's lives in the name of famous financial discipline? Is it just the void and horror that we felt with the coup d'état of the shutdown of the ERT and black on the screens of public television frequency? Is it what we are all aware of now, that every mandate of lenders is an option that is not about improving the economy, but about in their own collecting mechanism for maintaining the power of its subordinate bodies? Or is it the desperation we felt when they tried to convince us that we did not all love and trust with any of his faults and that he would be gone forever from our lives? Is the feeling that the information went through the hands of economic interests that for decades have plundered our economies and raped our intelligence? Or is it the Greek people's belief that the dominance of Clergy and Silver Telecoms was substituting any concept of serious and reliable access to information? They have proved so ruthless that they sacrificed to the altar of political survival, even those who themselves have appointed for decades to make public television problematic that it could not be done differently - to pass the whole pie at the hands of individuals, in exchange for possible stay in power. They did, in part, achieve their goal. But the Greek people have a different view. Terrorism of information at the takeoff. A people who are under television possession at the disposal of the media of the telecoms who, over and above all, did not hesitate to show their fellow Members of public television as guilty and responsible of the country's economic downfall, while at the same time baptising the full bankruptcy of these good administration politicians with an interest in maintaining them in an advantageous position in their own media and offering full coverage to their bosses. On a daily basis, terror, fear and threat entered the homes of the Greeks. In order to maintain in power the chosen trustees have exercised as much of the means as possible in power as possible. The citizen in the quote. The famous shooters in the role of shooters bomb every day with strictly controlled news. The same situation prevails today. They are stubbornly denying tolerance in a different way. They refuse to accept the popular verdict, the Greek people's choice of questioning overthrowing the policies that led the country into this situation. Indeed, when it comes to ordinary citizens, it is a great news and it is a self-evident task, when it comes to big economic agents, that is to say, that it is a challenging task. An indignation and an unprecedented intolerance among citizens is a fact that occurs every time when the concept of credibility in information is mocked. We've lived them. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that I do not want the ERT to be reopened in the context of the waste and the immunity that the previous governments have been arrogantly applying, the appointment of the established administrations and the ratification of rationality that has been bankrupt by public television morally and economically. I come exclusively from the area of private initiative. That's where I'm acting professionally. I do not tolerate the dismantling of financial resources to the detriment of the people of the hardship, nor is the war to be tolerated at a fat wage at ERT or at any other public sector and public sector body. The citizens demand that this government respect for the sacrifices of the Greek people, so that he also respects us. This concerns all over the public sector, boards, presidents of organisations, hospital administrators, etc. The citizen has other demands than this government. I want a housewife ERT with respect to the citizen and his information, which responds to his financial capacity and to the absolute respect for the people who are striving for survival. I want to see a public television that is of interest to the truth, respects and serves it, without provocatively paid television stars and outdated. Of course, no one is interested in a public television that will serve propaganda and the distorting projection of reality, bleaching the government. Finally, it goes without saying that I want a simple and unrestricted public television to the extent that the economic situation of the country allows it. I cannot accept the absurdity that this is not possible, when all these years of euros are fed or given to the private television sector, concerning public debt, insurance funds and provocatively paid television stars. And all that with absolute tolerance, the guilty tolerance of our "saints" - lenders. They never dealt with this area, except they only pushed as hard as possible the popular layers. The need for sound public television is a universal demand for citizens. It is about informing them, it is a fundamental obligation and a basic prerequisite for the functioning of democracy, but also a stone in the Greek people's judgment, to make the right decisions regarding the choices of his fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, too, because you didn't even waste your time. Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis has the floor and my colleague, Mrs Cassidy, prepares.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, Minister, this is a special moment. We said it in this context of morality, collectiveity, "I'm not me." "It's me." 'We who resisted 'black'. Because we remembered in unsuspecting time what the late Manos Hadjidakis said in the "Third's Comments". "We resisted the "black" so that we could not tolerate the image of the monster and, above all, not get used to it as a society and start to look like it." We resisted "black" on August 9, 2013, when they said: Come on, apply. We're giving you a job at the I.T. - NERIT. Assemble, trade, legalize 'black'. And we said 'no'. And we kept emitting for seven hundred days. My comrades are currently emitating to free ERTs in Athens, Thessaloniki, throughout Greece voluntarily and unpaidly. I consider that to be reasonable - some cannot understand. How can they offer you a job and say no? How can you work and not pay? Because this is the code of understanding of things they have in their own world. We are against those who go against the current with the morality of collectiveness and not 'I'. That's what we tried to do. I want to speak from this Step on this logic, the political choice of Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA who did not adopt the logic of jacks and politicians, but chose to join the SYRIZA ballots on January 25th, people who came out of the popular movement, such as cleaners, people from ERT, from Skouries, and put them in front of society. He chose not the contractors of politics, not the political fireplaces, but people through the world who were fermented in political and social struggles. I know I speak another language. It's not the language that the famous Dioskouris might understand. I'm just saying that. Mr. Voutsi, Minister, what strange games fate plays! That night of 'black', one and a half hours before the 'black' fell and the ERT3, I remembered - journalistic perversion - the Minutes of the Parliament and Dimitris Papadimoulis who told Kedicoglou: 'This is a Memorandumary obligation. Three hundred million euros. The Memorandums say you have to collect them. Frequency licenses’. And said then Kedicoglou, the "psycholic", on October 10, 2012, eight months before ERT closes: "Yes, but if we ask for the 300m euros, private channels will be shut down and half the workers will lose their jobs." The "soul" after eight months closed the ERT, flew to the street three thousand workers, right-wing, centered, left-wing, no grief, no care, no morals. He didn't remember what we told him, which Titus Patricius said "when the eye hurts, you don't take it off, you put drops". Ladies and gentlemen, what can I say? On the New Democracy side, I remember, when they entered the Radio Memorial with MATs from this position, Mr Kikilias. Mr Kikilias had come and said: 'Mrs of the New Democracy, we lost on the subject of ERT. A channel, 240m euros. Hello!" As we exit the tunnel of "Black", not only in the ERT by voting the law of its reconstructing to the National Representation, the mind and heart refuse to make one minute available to unrepentant lovers of the frozen image on Abyssos Street, number 0, June 11, 2013. The Samaras are vain, giving back fights. They used to sink with Venizelos in the black hole they were digging for the others, that is for all of us. Who? The workers, the society, the homeland. We don't start from a zero base. The government, by the resurrection of ERT, does the double play - what our people say "the chap makes the pipeline" - closes the wounds of ERT's black on the one hand and at the same time attempts to win the bet of a public broadcaster who meets the demands - people's projections. We're going back to the light. The collective concern now concerns the new ERT, ERT3 and the NRAs. It recommends a mandate for all citizens, a demand for society to be united, a responsibility for all the political forces opposed to the 'black' for the public good, a human right to information, culture and entertainment. The missing sign of democracy returns. But not yesterday. Back to the future, we're trying. On the way from "black" to light, the struggle of 23 months of the upright ERT, ERT3 and NRAs, the responsibilities of all to gain the confidence of the Greek people are clear and clear without repetitions, without the passions of yesterday, to become ERT the public broadcasting house of all Greeks, public service, paid by the Greek citizen and requires pluralism and quality, rational and responsible management. No rehabs! Did we forget? Conference of New Democracy, June 28, 2013, Antonis Samaras: “We were appointed in New Democracy, we were also appointed in PASOK, but we were appointing leftists.” Seven days after "black" she revealed the great secret: she closed the ERT because she didn't control it, because she was left. In the face of this deep divisional logic of Mr. Samaras, the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks chooses to return and remain all the workers. I repeat, all workers are returning so that they do not listen to unworthy complaints, so as to settle SYRIZA's party clientele. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, what exactly does SYRIZA do? Is the party clientele, technicians, journalists and managers who took care to slaughter Alexis Tsipras' speech in September 2014 at the Exhibition? Such sadomazism? This party clientele, when we say they're all coming back? Just for SYRIZA the right to work is sacred, there are no right-wing, left-wing and central, there are people who honor the bread they eat. Where do we start? Freedom of the press. I will submit to the minutes a relevant report to be understood. "Greek collapsed on the press freedom list." Fifty full positions under the five years of the memorandum - from 2009 to 2014 - say "Publishers without Borders". In 2009 Greece was in the thirty-fifth place, in 2014 in the ninety-nineth position on issues relating to freedom of the press with a key pretext, a subject, the theme catalyst of the ERT's 'black'. I put forward the relevant report for the minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] It should be understood that ERT's 'black' crime in June 2013 was twin. I close ERT, I assign directly to DIGEA, a private monopoly. We defend the right of all citizens to inmediate information as a basic public asset, a human right. We have a project, not a reason to break the inter-media triangle - businessmen, banks - political establishment, which made the information marketable private product that controls the information flow as a 'big brother'. What will the citizen know? When will he know? What purposes and goals does it have? Is this type and volume of information served by controlling its information, flow, persons who want to project or cut, trying to control the judgment, will, reflexes? I have here - because it is just a few tasks - the letter from the Minister, Mr Spirtzi, to the ERT where he asks them why. It's the first of the thirteen questions he has. I shall submit the relevant document in the Minutes. ‘Why, on the basis of what decision and with what grounds has the competitive process progressed despite the fact that a single competing company participated in this competition?’ [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Only evidence of the Minutes will I testify. Immediately thereafter, I will submit a paper on government revenue foregone, amounting to EUR 700 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you're kind, Mr. President, give me a minute to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u397	I would remind you that when you were running a show you called a "advertising break"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u398	You're absolutely right. "It's going to fall black," I said. I didn't think that black would finally fall and shut us all down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u399	You have a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u400	Public revenue foregone, 700 million. Is that Vulture? Does the Pope say so? Oh, no. Reveals my partner, Nikos Michalitsis, with his article at www.typologies.gr, the public's revenues foregone by this criminal assignment, as was budgeted by an investigation ordered by the relevant Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport itself. When? On 23 February 2012. Who? In the company ‘ANALYSYS MASON’. The expected revenues of the Greek State from the disposal, sale of digital television frequencies in Greece for the next 15 years amounted to EUR 715 million. How much did it take? He took 18 million euros. How much is the revenue foregone? It's 700 million. Where are you going to get the money to do what you were saying and say and say it beforehand? Here's the money, take that money, 700 million plus 400 million from the frequency auction. I put forward the relevant document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] I would have a lot to say and there are notes for the Supervisory Board too. The references here, both to Mr Moronis and to Mr Macryketritis as well as to Mr Fortsakis' Supervisory Council for party recruitment, Rusphetological and government interventions, are not complete. NERIT's practical number 26 - Mr Theodoros Fortsakis signs it, I think he is a Member of the New Democracy! - says government interventions in the operation of the NERIT are being denounced. The Supervisory Council unanimously condemns these interventions in the most unequivocal way from the then competent State Secretary for the Press, adopting the complaints made by who? The Syrians. Mr. Makristis, Moronis, etc., by letter. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] In other words, denouncers of the New Democracy, denounced in the New Democracy. Evaluator of the complaint, Member of the New Democracy. It was theirs. That's why the Minister says it's not important for the Supervisory Board. It is important - and this is what I shall close - that the political will. And the political will, Minister, must be that we will be here as long as we can withstand our guts, our legs and our strength to say this: let ERT workers do their job, journalists, technicians, managers, away from interventions, be evaluated not for the political beliefs and assessments they may have, but for their dignity, labour and labour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u401	Ms. Sunday Tentondus has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr. Psarianos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel awesome. Although I have been through Parliament in times past, shocking times, I feel today that I need to speak a little differently. I changed my speech five to six times, because I listened very carefully to most of my colleagues. Where I was caught up in my interest, however, were the speeches of the great evangelizers of neoliberalism. Listening to them, I suddenly thought that we were living in a country where healthy entrepreneurship stood and this healthy entrepreneurship we bad guys would block it. And yet, you know, it's a common place, that in this country some businessmen, with favourable regulations, with provocative privileges, set up all the success they had. If the State withdrew in a magical way the entire beneficial framework it created for them, then it would change the entrepreneurial environment irreversibly. So not to talk about healthy entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised by your speech, of course, because you are serving the policy of barbarism, unharmed markets, of neoliberalism without mercy, while we are serving civilization policy and society's policy. I support the current government. What else could I do? Thirty-three years I've been serving at the OAED, and by January 9th, before I submitted my candidacy. Therefore, I am not entitled to ignore or pretend that I do not know that neoliberalism has passed through the body of society and has hit it. The current government is a government of the whole society. That is why her legislation responds to the real needs of society. Such legislation is also a matter of re-establishment and reopening of the ERT, which is also the beginning of a series of legislation which will put an end to an anarchist broadcasting landscape. Symbolism is huge, not only because it restores ERT's dismissals who are violently, almost couped, in the way they were on the road, but because it offers Greek society an update that she deserves. We want a public, social television, because only it can make a difference, outside reasonable viewing and speculation. I think, Mr. Voutsi, I stole something from your reasoning. We want public social television that its regional stations will be the step forward in the region's independent voices. The former ERT 3, maintaining its global scope, will be able to focus on the issues of northern Greece and highlight the specificities and problems of Macedonia. Mr President-in-Office, I would like to believe that after some time of operation, you will allow ERT 3 to proceed with greater independence and administrative and financial resources. Because no problem - you know very well - does not create democracy that is not solved with more democracy. We want a television free, independent, open to young creators who serve culture, science and research. We want a public television - a channel through which ideas, values, proposals, memory, tradition, anguish of Greek society and anti-Greekism will pass. We want a public television that will shrink, through its effective operation, the influence of the private information system, which is directed beyond and beyond the needs of society. We want a public television that is reliable, transparent, worthwhile, without provocative prerogatives. They're attacking, without re-engineering, all those who got fired. And I heard a Congressman who asked the question, "Tell us, how many do you want to get?" As if that was the point. We're judging the alternator, you see. The same colleague of the Opposition said in a reversal of the reason that 'this is a mere change of corporate name' - listen - 'when NERIT was a Catholic successor of the ERT'. But if that was the case, why did you get in the process to close it? Did the thousands of workers on the road tell you something overnight? You tried to irritate social reflexes by using an old, tested recipe of neoliberalism. Why did the Vice-Population colleague start saying: 'Why not take a thousand five hundred nurses who get a thousand ERT five hundred, why not take a thousand five hundred police officers?' However, no one can resurrect that reason anymore. In any case, no sector has remained unscathed by the lack of neoliberalism. So these communal tricks don't have any supporters. They took care of us for the beginning of one by one, which binds the government. Who will teach you a lesson, who will talk to you about the principle of humanity, according to which politics is worthy and important when it improves the everyday life of the citizens and does not demolish them, does not level them, does not take them to the margin? But you don't surprise us with everything you say. I remember persistently what Zorbas said to Kazantzakis: “Have you ever remembered the fig tree, why didn’t it make you cherries?” Mr. Georgiadis told the government to apologize. If the current government has to ask once, how many millions of apologies should the government abducted ask? A Byzantine secret said: "You can crucify any lectures for your victim. Do not forget, however, that the nails also penetrate the cross." This has also been done in the case of the ERT, because it was the beginning of your downhill course. You told us about the new conflict between mobile telephony and television. These are about another battlefield, the field of technology. It has nothing to do with politics, but, as you can see, you are confusing neoliberalism the policy, which must serve all the others - and technology and the economy - which, instead of serving it, remains the poor, trisalthia. He was oppressed in the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one more minute. You talked to us, and you said well. However, the conflict, the oldest one, will still be: the conflict between the policy of barbarism and the policy of culture. You have said so, ladies and gentlemen, that you want your state to only set the regulatory framework, that is to say, to turn the state on the road to the selected entrepreneurs. Let everyone else go to fire the other way. You have a special talent, colleagues of counterpopulation. In your words, you made the black, white. But with your work, you did the white one, black one. The people don't believe you anymore. Your stock prices on the political stock exchange fell vertically and there is no hope of recovery. As we speak of radio frequencies, I would like to dedicate you a popular song, which says, "We are not at the same frequency, we are not at the same station, our dreams have identity, your dreams have a number". I will close with Elytis: "The white one I sought as the last intensity of the black one." White will be sought as the last intensity of black! Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, too. Mr. Psariano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. Because you said a break for advertising when Mr. Triantafylides was talking about, now it's the advertising break. Time for ads, they say, and external news and a few words about the weather. Because I have worked for several years - twenty-seven - on radios and televisions and on media, and in private and public, and in three different periods, with three different governments and three different chairmen on ERT radios, I have to tell you that by listening to Mr Triantafylides before, or to Anneta or Agalia or other selective colleagues, I would find it very difficult to talk to staff in requesting the reopening of my work, in some way, of own personal benefit. That is, for example, to close the IKA, and because I was the director of IKA, when I discuss the IKA's re-recommendation, to make fires. I'd feel so hard. Perhaps I was talking about another body, PICA, or the Port Authority of Thessaloniki. I'm glad the Minister's back too. We're at zero. Generally speaking, we're at point zero. The latest little news that is heard gives a hope that something can be done, something can change. Others say shitheads, others say collision outside, others say collision inside. I don't want any conflict to happen. I want us to move on to national rationalisation, to the state, to the public sector, to the public-private balance, to public enterprises, to private enterprises and to the PPP. I would also very much like ERT to be regrouped under that name because it has closed in an unacceptable manner. It was necessary to rationalise and restructure it in operation, which the POPERT trade unions would in no way allow. And so they gave the former Prime Minister an alibi to download the switches. It was an act of inadmissible. Nobody liked it. I also did not like it when as a SYRIZA MEP in 2008, POSOPERT was here - was in mobilisation - to find us here on the second floor and ask for the permanentisation of the contractors. There were four thousand eight hundred workers then and there would be five thousand two hundred. I will not make comparisons with foreigners again, but I will say that, starting from point zero, I told my fellow Members, colleagues, that we must not move on, even though it was unfair because the contractors worked harder than the permanent ones. The permanents didn't care. And a hundred and fifty gardeners be and the garden was dry, a pin didn't burn them. Contractors worked like dogs. It was unfair what I was saying about their group, in their interests, in the interests of my sister who was among them, but it was fair to the community as a whole. And then I told my fellow Members that if we continue to support the fair demands of contractors who want permanentization in the public sector, the ERT will close and close. As Olympiacos closed, as many other public bodies and organisations have closed down. We are at point zero, hoping that a small recovery will begin and one - I repeat - rationalisation. The ERT must also be regrouped from point zero, see what public broadcasting is doing, how they form and operate in European countries where there is no Minister for Television. This tradition is a little "delivery of Zagorianaku" which was kept and democracy because it was helping the prime ministers and the ruling parties wanted their own Minister for Broadcasting and having private broadcasts in their pockets, in a hostage without permission. Since 1989, the government of the late Zolotas has continued this hostage regime. First, we had to regulate this - I told the Minister in committee - I have said it several times to previous committees - and then to the subject of ERT. For the ERT theme to start from point zero. How's ERT Belgium? How is ERT Luxembourg? How's the Danish ERT? And not to take the ERT Botswana standard with the Minister for Television. Comrade Pappas, who is a good man, is also a good minister of mine is a friend of mine and I trust him - but tomorrow the evil Psaryan will come - he said it is a matter of political will. We must not leave it to the political will the good or the bad, the good Triantafylides and the bad Psarians. We must ensure that the institutions are independent, ungrateful, broadcasting. And no-one is Karamanlis, no-one Papandreou, no-one Tsipra brelock and a toy. This is what the "first time on the left" must do with a little right and a few sprays. This ERT has to work. And we need to see, what do we want? We want a cultural programme, a good TV, a good radio, two television channels, three radios. Yes, sir! No channel of parliament, no ET3, because I saw ET4. And the Peloponnese wants an ERT and Thrace and Crete, i.e. ERT 7, ERT 13, as much as the regions are to do, so that we can settle and become good at our regional customers. That's why we're doing it. Not to mention Thessaloniki's football and other things now, let us not open this debate. We need to see ERT as a national broadcaster and production. That's what we're interested in. If that's why we need five hundred, five hundred we'll get if that's why we need four thousand, four thousand we'll get. We shall not say that we will take them all, both before and after and after the day, to settle electoral clienteles, Mrs Vultusi, Mr Papa, Mrs Kritsis, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We want ERT to produce an excellent broadcasting programme, a high quality. I could speak on this, in other words how the radio on Greek state radios takes place under conditions of 1930, pre-war conditions. Radio programme producers cannot handle machines because they lifted black flags and closed doors and channels and radios. It's like he's a violinist who else plays the glory and someone else holds the instrument. There's no production of radio music program like that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u405	You've got a tolerance of two minutes, just like the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u406	We therefore want an ERT with a quality programme and the people they need for it not to settle people either before or after them, the fake certificates, the licking, or the rumours of the former Ministers and the next. This ERT, this bill does not re-establish it, does not ensure its future. Some horn's gonna shoot black sometime, and I don't mean that the last one was, but someone of the future's gonna take down a black either he's a pigeon, or he's a stalino-fascist, whether he's a congressman, a group, or a golden guy. I don't know what it might be, but we won't leave it in his political will, we'll make sure. And that, Mr President-in-Office, and Mr Ministers, you do not guarantee for the first time for the first time, unfortunately. As you do not arrange for radio frequencies, such as the environment of information contractors and blame some of them for being employees of these broadcasters or public works, but you come to them with five or six phones a day to settle things, while those you blame have nothing to do with them and have never seen them. At most, if they give us some pocket money, we'll take it, say. It's very simple, very simple. If we want to do as it should be, we will become a normal European country and broadcasting. When I said this four months ago, I was called a merckelist, a german, a Cholakoglou, a dowry and a Chirimoko. One Prime Minister has said so recently that, that is, we must become a normal European country, said the German-French-French-French-French-French-French-Frencher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u407	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated by fifty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the Second General School of Katerina (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now, just listen to the procedure before giving Mrs Vulture the floor for a minute, which she has asked for the floor on staff. Since yesterday it was agreed that three meetings should be held, so we should be adjourned on the basis of yesterday's agreement for half an hour. In consultation with the President, and because of the many colleagues who are present, we will not be interrupting half an hour, but we must at least interrupt for five minutes to see that there is a third meeting, a substance and not just a type. Mrs Vulture, you have the floor for a minute to tell us what the personal issue you are talking about is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u408	Yes, Mr. President. I thought very much whether I would take the Step forward to deal with this issue, but it is one issue - because documents were also submitted in the Minutes - which I have to resolve. I didn't mean to do it, because I think when you denounce someone, you have to have the moral backing to do it, and if you're a journalist, you have to have proof. Abuse of organ communications that were in conflict with each other and known to have issued equilibrium announcements does not prove anything. As you know and as you know, in my long-term professional career, I have never, since my composition, been involved in news. Of course, in order to distinguish it, the Minister responsible as the main shareholder representing the Greek people on matters that Mr Papapas, as I understand it, wants to control, in other words, non-publishing matters, has the right to ask for the floor if we can tell the agency which is being supervised, or whatever. My colleague, Mr Triantafylides, has to prove, bring people to whom I have given orders for anything, to publish or not to publish. I said it before, but Mr Triantafylides was not inside - if I bothered to treat them, they would lose her without even reaching the court, I will not accept them being brought here as proof. Because these people are seventy years old, let us say - some of them - and they wanted to be recruited, although retired and confronted started from there. But whoever brings one of my interventions in the press and news track, then I'll admit it. And Minister, you will resolve the question of whether the journalists elected as Members will be recruited. The ERT cannot be a step in the right direction to get MPs out and then step back to ERT and be officials there too. This is an issue of moral order and conflict of interest that you must resolve, answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u409	There is no incompatibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u410	Yeah, I know. It's moral.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u411	It's the report, it's their profession!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u412	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u413	I request the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u414	Just a minute, Minister. Mr. Triantafylides, he didn't report personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u415	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u416	No, I don't think you were aiming to hurt Mrs. Buddhism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u417	No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u418	It is therefore considered to be an end to the matter. We're going well in peace.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u419	Just for a minute, Mr. President. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u420	Yeah, but I'll answer that later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u421	There's nothing between me and Ms. Voutiss. That's the first. The placement is political.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u422	No, it's not politics. You'll bring proof, Mr. Comrade. You said the Minister intervened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u423	I used the letter - a complaint made by Mr. Makryketritis and Mr. Moronis, a chosen university professor, one, a chosen journalist at ERT, who made written complaints from the two...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u424	Good, you've given the explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u425	Wait a minute. These two people were chosen by the New Democracy to do work at the ERT...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u426	So, just think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u427	...and resigned from this post because party interventions were carried out...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u428	I'll answer that later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u429	Mr. Triantafylides, you have given the explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u430	Wait a minute! And in particular, they say in their text that Ms. Vultesis gave orders to cover a follocking festival in Crete, and secondly, she cut, slaughtered, on her command, the speech of the chief at the time of Officer of Staff, Alexis Tsipras, because - he says - of the fact that the Director-General did not listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u431	With what evidence? The complaint is not proof!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u432	Well, you've been over time. Listen, speech two, you won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u433	No, I have to substantiate, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u434	You have said that it is not her concern. You made it clear, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u435	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u436	But he's reporting me again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u437	The last one is this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u438	Mr. Triantafylides, you have spoken for three minutes. Please don't abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u439	Mr President, I'm not making any abuse, it's the last report. This complaint from the two gentlemen was assessed by the Supervisory Board. Who was the President? Mr. Fortsakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u440	Good, you've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u441	What did he say? We unanimously accept the complaint of the two gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u442	He didn't say that, he said in a quote...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u443	NERITT's...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Triantafylides, you have no reason. You'll embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u445	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u447	Mrs Vulture, you are making it easier for colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, I ask for the floor because it has made it worse. It's serious to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u449	Mrs Buddhism has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, I say this once again because the honourable Member has made it worse because there is no proof and I have not dealt with either Mr Tsipras or with anyone, and because now I hear about the belligerents of Crete - a long story of journalistic and intervention - because there is no proof that these two gentlemen, whom Mr Triantafyllidis referred to, have been saved from the fact that I am not a type of lawsuit. Otherwise they would see what would happen, because proof of that is not there, and Mr. Triantafylides uses it deliberately...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u451	Which one do I use intentionally?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u452	...to harm my honor and reputation as a journalist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u453	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u454	I didn't need to do that, and if we were to go to detail why they did all this, they would be very personal and very ridiculous. You, as a journalist, had to look for the causes behind all these complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u455	What about me? Mr. McGeetri?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u456	I am sorry that I have a level and I do not go into Parliament to say where some personally responsible people have made these complaints. It's over! It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u457	I respect that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u458	It's not a proof of what you're holding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u459	It's the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u460	He can denounce anyone he wants. And I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u461	Mrs Vulture, you are an experienced colleague, do not engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u462	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u463	That Mr. Fortsakis accepts it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u464	Minister, have you asked for the floor for dentology, tritology or two-minute intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u465	I will only need one minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u466	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes, and then we'll be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u467	Mrs Vulture, as you can see, the bill cannot have any unfavourable provision at the expense of certain workers. There is no incompatibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u468	So they're hiring?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u469	Therefore, those who practiced the profession of journalist should refer to the provision, which will be the law of the State in a few hours' time and say that the contracts of those of indefinite duration are revived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u470	Do they legislate and then hire? Whatever you say!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u471	Stay unorthodox? Should we punish them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u472	No, they're not unpaid, they're out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u473	If two Ministers speak together, no one will understand anything. Let Mr. Pappas finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u474	A second point I would like to highlight, because it comes back and comes back from the Potamian Members, making an appeal to all sides to avoid both the nerves and the extremes that may be said with coolness, is that we are almost ready to bring the permit bill. Being constantly called on, on the one hand, by the adoption of a Presidential Decree and, on the other hand, by the 2007 legislation to settle the issue of digital signal licences, I think that all we could achieve after all is to legitimise an illegality and consolidate a status quo, for which at least an oral one here is not proud. So let us wait a few days and commit ourselves as a government that will soon be in consultation and the permit bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u475	It has already been five to six minutes, and I will make the following proposal to you: ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we will be able to resolve the sitting for five minutes, which means that we will start on 18.10 seconds exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-28-S1-commons.u476	With the consent of the House at 18.04 p.m. the sitting is closed for Tuesday, 28 April 2015 at 18.10 p.m., on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
