ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A single debate on the principle, Articles and all of the draft law 'Urgent measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 30 April 2015 to discuss the draft law at one or two meetings and if necessary take place tomorrow, Thursday, 7 May 2015. The Report was announced and posted on 4/5/2015 by the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs. The draft law will be discussed at the beginning of this sitting. I would remind the House that the first debate of the bills refers exclusively to their purpose and content in accordance with Rule 95(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The first discussion of the draft law begins with its oral development by the Minister responsible. The rapporteurs, the special speakers and, finally, the Members who have joined the list of speakers in principle, without prejudice to Rule 64(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The list of speakers is drawn up from the start of the debate and from the end of the speech by the rapporteurs (Rule 96(1) of the Rules of Procedure). The Members of the House shall have the right to speak and, if they so request, at the end of the debate in principle pursuant to Rule 96(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The opinions in the first debate on the draft law are based on Articles 64, 97 and 98 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In addition, let me inform you that there are relevant briefings from the parties. [[BM]] [[1AB]] In particular: From the People's Association - Golden Dawn: "We inform you that for the thirty-fifth and thirty-sixth plenary session of Parliament on the subject of a day's order: only debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law "Emerging measures to deal with violence in sport and other provisions", we define special buyer of MP I Region of Thessaloniki, Antonis Gregos and Parliamentary spokesman for MP Achaias Michalis Arvanitis". From the "Potami": "We inform you that in the debate on the draft law "Urgent measures to deal with violence in sport and other provisions", Parliamentary Representative of our parliamentary group is appointed as MP Mr Antigoni Lymmerakis and Special Buyer George Mavrotas. From the JRC: "In the draft "Urgent measures to tackle violence in sport and other provisions", we define as the rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Giokas. From the Group of Independent Greeks: "We know that in the debate of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs "Hurrency measures to tackle violence in sport and other provisions", by the Group of Independent Greeks, the MEP is designated as Special Buyer, Pavlos Haikalis and as Parliamentary Representative, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos." Finally, the PASOK Parliamentary Group defines as a Special Market Member Ms. Friday (Everything) Christophilopoulou. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I should like to inform you that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty students and students and four teachers attending from the 1st High School of Heidari. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Stavros Kontonis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft law introduced by the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the issues of dealing with violence on the ground. It would be good before we start the debate to remember what the present government has received. Ladies and gentlemen, what was the reality that the government received and was called upon to manage? The reality was no more than an extensive disrepute of the professional football area. A dismantling of this space from society itself, from events and situations, which have occurred throughout recent years. Secondly, it was a sense of society - which was not arbitrary, but a reality - that this area is being plagued by widespread corruption. And the third was continuous and permanent clashes and episodes of either fan groups or fans with the forces of the Order, namely the police. [[RG]] [[BM]] Not much, that is, every weekend - and it was not during the period that we took over, it was also the previous period with other governments - we had a permanent 'haemorrhage' of the legal order because of these behaviours, which insulted not only sport and the idea of fair play but also our culture. Sport and not much had become a field of unrelenting conflict of economic interests, it had become an area of the militarisation of fans - blind followers, who do not care what a sight there is or how what we call professional football in Greece - who on a permanent basis created situations that were offensive to everyone. That was the reality. But what was there at the legislative level? Ladies and gentlemen, I have also stressed this in the relevant committee of Parliament, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which we have had the opportunity to discuss in detail. In no other area of public life, State intervention was so minimised. Minimised, not on the administration of federations, but on matters in which the state must intervene and regulate when it finds that there are gaps or even worse diseases, as in our case. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide it from you that the only possibilities which the government had under the existing legislation were to regulate secondary issues, in my opinion, such as the issues of the movement of fans or the banning of certain matches, after - look at it, not self-evidently - there was a proposal in this direction and the IAEA, the Confrontation Committee of Violence and the Greek Police. So you see that the situation here was out of control and all interventions. From the first days the Government of Social Rescue has taken over, we have been faced with acute problems and infinite situations. Fortunately, we haven't had a dead period of our own, from January to today. Dead during the current sports season in a race on Crete. Dead on a field! That's where we've become, that's where they're dead. To have physical damage to fans, athletes, workers. That's where we're going. We are therefore in this situation. We were faced with serious incidents, and when I talk about serious incidents I mean extensive incidents in which there was a threat to human life, a threat to the physical integrity of our fellow people, who, in fact, - most of them - were workers in the field of professional football. They were, that is, athletes, footballers of a group, or workers who are involved in the status of a doctor or a physiotherapist, in sending this group to another field, as well as we had disasters, both in public property and in private property. That was a framework, which the government could not do so. We had to intervene immediately. [[PM]] [[RG]] In fact, at that time, the government was either inclined or attacked. ‘Why not intervene?’. We were all invited to intervene more or less, because this situation was admitted by everyone that it was no longer going, and it was confessed that, as it goes on, we will have even worse phenomena. I would remind you that the government immediately intervened and forbade racing for a racing and holding races behind closed doors for two races. At that time, on the basis of the tense climate that existed, the conflicts of grandchildren at public meetings of the institutions, the principles governing football championships, fan conflicts and a climate of inadmissibility created in the follow-up press, the government intervened on the basis of the possibilities available. I would like to stress that we have exhausted these possibilities. We have exhausted them, ladies and gentlemen. Today, what do we do with the bill that comes to be discussed? I think we have had a very good and constructive debate in the relevant Commission. As you well know and you will have seen, not only on the basis of what I have announced, but also on the basis of what is stated in the draft law under discussion, there have been very many comments from all the parties that were party to the bill. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, we have State intervention in matters of administrative fines and administrative measures by extension. I would like to tell you that it has made me an alpine impression that while for all areas of public life and entrepreneurship in Greece the state can intervene by imposing administrative fines where it sees infringements of legislation in the field of professional football in a strange way. Therefore, for the first time, we have the possibility of the Minister - and even on a proposal and an opinion from the Standing Commission on the treatment of violence - to impose administrative fines and measures. I would like to point out that these administrative fines and administrative measures reach the point of revocation of sporting recognition, because in these situations, groups are also involved, and federations are involved. We make them clear from the Plenary Step that what is perpetrated in the law will be applied up to antenna. To be serious and to understand that sport is not a field of interdependence, sport is not an area of conflict of economic interest. Sport is an area offered for the Greek youth, offered for the Greek society and only positively has to offer. Let everyone realise that they are now under the control of the law and that the administration and the state institutions will do their duty in full. For the first time, sanctions have been introduced with regard to the issue of non-implementation of the electronic ticket. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention here that, for the electronic ticket and the monitoring of sports spaces, a proper measure adopted by the previous governments, unfortunately we arrived in 2015 and had not been implemented as the law had been. [[EP]] [[PM]] This is something that needs to be considered, because, you know, apart from the inconvenience of various areas of public life, we are also coming to the inconvenience of the own parliamentary procedure. To establish laws and these laws do not apply. And why didn't these laws, ladies and gentlemen? Because there was no penalty. So, with the bill, we come and say that on no field that doesn't have this system that I described you can't be a match of the First National Class and basketball and football. The framework of criminal provisions shall They are involved in the awarding of disciplinary justice to football exclusively by regular judges. Check the property status of referees and soccer observers. There is a first deal with the racing that is suspected of being manipulated. The Standing Committee on the Management of Violence is responsible in a particular and reliable way for the College of Observers and, ladies and gentlemen, this shameful provision in paragraph 12 of Article 29 of the Treaty is abolished. 3479/2006, which specifically provided for football, not status of self-government, but status of autonomy. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: in what area of public life does the country's constitution reserve such a status? No one. And if you check the provision of Article 16(9) of the Constitution, you will see that it does not exclude any sport from what it defines, namely the control and supervision of the State over all sport. Ladies and gentlemen, we were aware that the draft law we have tabled would give rise to reactions. We are ready from the outset in a sincere, public and clear debate on the provisions. We proved it in practice. We have at some point stated that while we are ready to discuss all the issues the bill raises, we do not accept ultimatum. And we said that, we meant it, and we made it clear in every direction. I believe that the stance taken by the Greek Government on this issue, namely that it does not accept writings, but that, with all the institutionalised factors, either inside or abroad, it has led to a constructive debate and a solution to many problems. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time when we are discussing the issues facing violence, the Greek society is following a parade of suspects from the office of the competent Special Interrogator at the School of Hope, which has been prosecuted for criminal offences on soccer issues. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means that the regime that had been established in recent years was a vile regime and it was a regime that produced such phenomena. [[A M ……]] [[EP]] But will anyone ask me: weren't there any pathogens and problems before? There were. Of course they were. But to this extent, with this fierceness, with so many people involved for so many, the first time in recent years in the field of Greek sport. So the involvement of justice in these matters should also make us wiser in all respects. I would like to stress here that the previous government and my predecessor, the State Secretary for Sport, have colluded with this regime. He tried to put a class in the draft law, which he had brought to consultation. It was not discussed because we had a governmental change. I stressed that in the new sports law, which the government will recommend to the National Representation, after discussion and consultation, and with the parties, positive aspects that exist in this bill will be taken seriously into account. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] You will give me some more time, Mr President. I would therefore like to say that the attempt to control this situation was not an attempt that arises only from the action of the current government or the previous government. It was intensely thoughtful, ladies and gentlemen. It was a strong reflection from parties that had not been involved in the government's power. It was suggested by many that there was a risk of expulsion of national teams of sports, as well as clubs, from international championships. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has said from the outset that it is neither in its intentions nor in its intentions that such a development, which we have characterised indifference. But we stressed to everyone that the government is legislating on the basis of the interest of the Greek people. That is why we have called in exhaustive dialogue for the players of international sport and also domestic. I would like to say to you that we have incorporated too many points in the final draft law, which we have tabled to the Commission. This draft law, as we had to do, with legal corrections, interventions and improvements, we also sent to the football federations and to the international federations - I mean FIFA and UEFA. FIFA and UEFA after sending this text have sent us a letter to which three observations are actually made. Ladies and gentlemen, on these remarks, which were raised by the international federation, UEFA, but also with FIFA's assent, we did not agree. I say this to you in a clear and unequivocal way. The first point, which was the most painless one and there was no problem - from the outset we thought about it - was the blockade, by decision of the government, of the Greek teams from European championships. At this point UEFA and in our dialogue it urged us to delete this provision from the draft law. We intended - and we told them - that is to make it acceptable, because this objective of the government and of the law is indirectly served when the government is allowed to cease, and because of serious incidents of violence a championship is interrupted. It is served indirectly but clearly this reason. But we could not agree on what UEFA and FIFA proposed to us on the issue of ordinary judges. [[MO]] I repeat that from the first to receive a call for apology to the extent of a felony by the competent special investigator - and I hope they are innocent and to prove their innocence, it is not on a personal basis - those who were appointed by the NRA - but not all, enough - to run the relevant Disciplinary Committees. That is why we intervened in this way and said that to obtain football credibility and the Greek fan would not have any shadows and doubts about what is going on in disciplinary bodies, we took this initiative. The proposal made to us in writing by UEFA and FIFA, which you know - if you wish - was an unconscious proposal. That is why they went to Geneva, precisely to give this thought. Ladies and gentlemen, after a long debate, but sincerely also good faith, mutual retreats have been made on this issue. The international federations have now accepted the disciplinary bodies to be ordinary judges, as well as the disciplinary authority to be an active prosecutor. But their suggestion was that the NCA should choose them. We couldn't accept that. We have therefore proposed several alternatives, and we have come to the conclusion that it can be accepted that the EAW selects and defines them, from a list, set up by the Head of the Athens Court of First Instance for the Judges and the Head of the Athens Prosecutor for the two prosecutors who will prosecute the disciplinary action. This was a product of intense debate, with regard to the interest in finding a solution from both sides, on the subject of the staff of disciplinary bodies. We consider, in mind, to be self-evident that the Greek Parliament and the Government have absolute and unequivocal confidence in the Greek judges, that it is a provision that can help and remove the clouds and shadows that exist above these committees in the way they were appointed and operated. The second issue, which has again been discussed in detail, is the following: the international federations had some objections to Article 15. It is pleasant and interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that the international federations have not given any fight - and they have rightly done so - and they have not proposed that, for one minute, they continue to maintain the autonomy status, which was established by the law I mentioned earlier. That says a lot. However, they asked for an addition to paragraph 2, namely the statement I made there, that it would be included in the law on the self-employed. Finally, after a long debate, we have now come to an end: "Things of football and the organization and operation of the football federation are regulated by the NRA in its own-management function and in accordance with its statutes and regulations, which are in line with the Constitution, the existing legislation, taking into account that the NCA manages its internal affairs independently and without influence by third parties, in accordance with the regulations of the World and European Confederations, of which it is a member." [[AG]] [[MO]] That was a proposal that emerged last night after this dialogue. We have agreed that these provisions should be translated and sent immediately - when I say immediately after they have been lodged and signed by the relevant Minister, Mr Balta - and by the international federations. Ladies and gentlemen, I said yesterday and I say this before you that we have fought hard these months, and the battle was not - take care of me - with the international federations. We have fought hard with the interests of Greek football and especially professional football. We had a long debate, with tensions, but also with agreements up to forty-eight hours ago with the international federations, which, from the Step by the National Representation, the government is calling for their responsibilities to be monitored with greater attention and vigilance, because we want them to be involved and we want them to be corrected, not when they reach a high degree, so that the public is being brought about by a sense of law, but when these federations find that there are serious problems with Greek sport in the first year and without the government having to be involved, in their self-government functions. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider the Greek Government too, but I believe they can express it - and I hope they will - and the international federations - that these amendments, as they have been made to the last document sent to us, can help Greek professional football, can help Greek sport. I would like to end by saying this: throughout this period we have received insinuations - in order not to describe them as otherwise - which, in many cases, were contradictory and problematic. We were invited by some 'good' friends and 'good' people in general - and I am not talking about the New Democracy and the debate that has taken place, I am referring to the press, Mr Kukodimos - to withdraw the bill because others will impose it on us. At the same time these journalists invited us to take the initiative to expel the Greek teams or withdraw the Greek teams and the national team from the international championships! They're the same! You realize that here we have a pathogen that goes beyond any limit. The same people suggest the most contradictory! The same people who told us not to deal with the issue of the autonomous football Federation were then told us to raise issues of election. And these are high-profile journalists! They're the same! So, ladies and gentlemen, we have not heard any of this. We have heard the voice of reason and the voice of the interest of Greek sport. And I would like to say that we have made a very serious effort not to have any negative effects on the expulsion of Greek groups first and foremost because we are thinking about the national team which is a national group and all the national groups are not groups of federations. They are groups that address the soul and the heart of the Greek people and give joy to the Greek people when there are successes. [[FT]] [[AG]] That is why the government has made this effort, and I believe that this attempt should receive the general approval of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Panagiota Dricelli, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, please speak on a point of order. I am a parliamentary representative, and I can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u5	Mr Brutsis, as a parliamentary representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, we have been living in new parliamentary customs recently. And I say this because last night, as the New Democracy had left, you saw strange things happening in the House. Mrs Konstantopoulou strangely, however, this time correctly, in the context of both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, she called for amendments to be withdrawn which were tabled yesterday by Members and by ministers of the Government. And we have seen that the government is imposing these amendments to remain. And the paradox is these amendments when the country collapses to come unnoticed, unnoticed and uncollected from the Accounting Office! It sends out the message, Mr President, that the government is taking care of its friends at this critical moment for the country. As for the rest that the Minister said, Minister, we welcome to your bill the return to reason. You put the flag, the return to logic and the avoidance of Grexit of Greek sport from European events. I hope that this spirit will prevail in the other negotiation that is taking place in the country, the great one, for its economy. But I would also ask the President of Parliament and you, before the procedure in this House begins to discuss the bill, you must also be obliged to bring it into law and in amendments so that we can put it on the ground. Mr President, it is necessary for the legislative improvements which the State Secretary has said to the House to be made so that there can be real placement by both the New Democracy and the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u8	And it is not honorable, Minister, that you should go and see legal advisers in Geneva and come with texts which indicate you, when all this great marathon and regression could have avoided them from the start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u9	Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u10	Sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak, because some are also evoking the logic in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u12	Just a minute, Minister. I don't like to interfere, because I think it's inconceivable. But let the rapporteurs speak. It is also an underestimation and dismantling of the rapporteurs these interventions at the moment. I therefore propose that there should be no further intervention by the parliamentary representatives. Please give the floor to the main rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u14	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not expect to hear what I have heard from the honourable Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. First of all, I say to you, Mr President, that this government always moves within the logic of all matters. I would urge you, because you have welcomed us in the logic, to read all my statements and all the government statements, about what you mentioned - the term Grexit - of the Greek football, that is, possible miscarriage of the Greek teams. We had said at the first moment, Mr Representative of the New Democracy, that the Greek Government neither seeks nor wishes to do so. We wanted a dialogue. We also wanted to have a real and in-depth dialogue. The last thing you have said is that it is not an honour to discuss directly the issues raised by the international federations. So instead of commending us for taking the initiative on this document to discuss a point with the representatives of the international federations, are you looking at us? And I ask you, Mr Brutsi, since you put it: The 2006 Act, which you are in the sense of making the excellent negotiation, is the product of which government is, Mr Representative of the New Democracy? [[MT]] [[FT]] Is it a product of your own government? The provision for this shameful, which was described and which was the autonomy of football and the NCA in particular, did not dare to defend it - nor did you - in the relevant Commission. Mr Brutsis, these issues perfectly logically, with absolute seriousness and consistency, have been dealt with by the Greek Government and we have come to this point which we consider to be an incision to continue the Greek football. As far as legislative improvements are concerned, you know that they must be signed by the relevant Minister, Mr Baltas, who is currently on an official visit to the Niarchus Foundation, if I have been properly informed. They've already been filed with the competent office of the House. As soon as he comes, they'll be signed and distributed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u17	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u18	What process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u19	I can do nothing but give all the Members of Parliament the floor. As President-in-Office and representative of the Bureau, I have the opinion - and I say it - that it is not the best in terms of ethics. We have two rapporteurs who have been prepared to speak and that is the right thing to do. If you want, let all the parliamentary representatives take the floor, but for a minute it will be strictly. Mr. Petrakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, with all due respect to the procedure, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative must not offend and not provoke the House. The House passed last night with a overwhelming majority on the legality and feasibility of the amendments tabled, perfection and dash. If they had any arguments, let them sit here and tell them. Secondly, the New Democracy must respond to what it says about the substance of this rotten system in professional football where instead of sport we have reached Far West and left the word games. Besides, whose creation is this situation? Who led to professional football in this situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and two teachers from the 4th Tavrou Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Liberaki, Parliamentary spokesman from Potami for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, we raised our objections yesterday in the most institutional way. We stayed until 03.00 hours to try and convince the House. The truth is that we were not at all satisfied with the way these amendments were put in place, even in the short term, because many of them have significant economic consequences and have not been costed by the General Accounting Office. However, we understand that since we decided to give the battle to the institutions - and so we must give it - it is a great pity that one thing should go into each other and one day in the other, as much as the hours of parliamentary work often do not know how to separate the days and themes. I would really like this debate on such an important issue, which is violence in sport, to take place as much as possible on the substance as possible and to avoid all the temptation to score easy points at the expense of the substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. Mr Nikolaopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks has been asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Samaras that he himself judges the awkwardness of what happened last night. All those who want to be protagonists were really missing and shined by their absence. [[SO]] [[MT]] The second and essential thing is that I keep - and we keep all - the observation, the comment or, I dare say, the praise which has been heard by my colleague, Mr Brutsis. I wish, he says, that's how the other negotiation ends. First of all, Mr Minister, this means that the Qualified Opposition is rejoiceful and unforgivable for the end. I imagine that that is what Mr Brutsis wanted to say when he said so, I wish the other big negotiations would end up. So we are starting and entering the essence of the debate, knowing that this painful process has brought the first sweet fruits and that it will not be the legislative body or the executive power simply to observe all these misery which everyone knows and condemns. It seems, however, that some may be committed to other obligations and dare not. Let us hope that today everyone will opt for this responsible attitude which has just been indicated to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u25	Mr Koutsoukos, PASOK Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u26	As you have seen, Mr President, we were not in a position to speak on a point of order, but you - let me say so - have the opportunity to put the Minister on the basis of substance and contradictory considerations, while the Rules say that he has the floor for fifteen minutes to present the bill. The controversies will be made along the way. He'll take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u27	I didn't make any controversy, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u28	We want to contribute to the debate on combating violence on the ground. We will be substantial and far from these controversies. The procedural remark is about the fact that the way the Minister has negotiated, other things he has said, relates to the fact that we are starting to discuss the bill without having the wording of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u29	I told you, Mr. Comrade. We're waiting for the signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u30	You have said so, but it is a point of order, and I have to do it. That was my first point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kutsuko...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u32	Allow me. First I'll finish and then you tell me. The second point of order is, Mr President, that it was made yesterday evening 'the amendment' because the President of the Parliament said that certain amendments are both unconstitutional and irrelevant and the majority made them relevant and constitutional. So if you want the majority to decide, by abolishing the regulations, by you, it is a pleasure to do so. But we have to point it out in a procedural way. It's our debt and duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. I think this cycle is over. We proceed normally, giving the floor to the rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Drichelli. Before giving the floor, however, I have an announcement to make. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Thursday, 7 May 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Art. 130(2)) 2 and 3 KC. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 1. The 153/28-4-2015 topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysolas Katsavrias - Siropoulou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the crisis in the book. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 162/28-4-2015 by the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Javara to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the payment of 1.5% of the gross revenues of television stations for the production of films. 3. The 151/28-4-2015 topical question by MP Larisa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the outstandingities of the repealed Labour Housing Organisation (OEC). 4. The 156/28-4-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the problems in the functioning of the Psychiatric Clinical of PAGNE. 5. Under No 149/27-4-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance concerning the attitude of the Greek State's lawyer in discussing the appeal to the Council of State on 24-3-2015 of the Non-profit Association of Greek Taxees, which called for an anti-constitutional and illegal ‘constitutional compromise agreement’ between the Greek State and the ‘Siemens’. 6. The 146/27-4-2015 topical question by MP Laconia of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health regarding the auctioning of the candle and flower shop located in the hospital of Zakynthos. B. REFERENCES Second Circle (Art. 130(2)) 2 and 3 KC. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 1. The 154/28-4-2015 topical question by MP Kastorias of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Diamandopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the determination of the number of citizens entering from third countries for the provision of dependent and seasonal employment in the region of Kastoria. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 163/28-4-2015 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, on the statements by the government representative on the issue of increased VAT on certain Aegean islands. 3. The question asked by Z' Vice-President Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr George Lambroulis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the payment of employees of the Euromedica Group (Thessaly). 4. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the reintegration of former employees of the Achaia Bank into the National Bank of Greece. 5. The 144/27-4-2015 topical question of the Deputy Attiki of the Pan-Greek Socialist Movement Eve Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on consultation in view of the multi-legislative plan of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs. 6. The 115/20-4-2015 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health regarding the schedule for the abolition of the Anonymous Society of Hospital Remuneration System (ESAN SA) 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 105/20-4-2015 by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health on the procedure for selecting hospital units. 8. Under number 106/20-4-2015, a topical question by Congressman Drama of the River Mr. Kyriakos Charakides to the Minister of National Defence on reports from the manufacturer (Lockheed Martin) on the reconstruction of the old-fashioned P-3B aircraft and the counter-proposals by Airbus. 9. The question by No. 123/20-4-2015 of the Greek Independent Athens MP Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Health concerning health measures to protect the citizens of the Tower of Elias due to the accumulation of waste in the area. 10. The 131/21-4-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the launch of the program "Home Settlement" under the Partnership Agreement (EPC) 2014-2020 and the relaunch of the building activity. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Art. 130 p. 5 KC. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 1. The question by number 407/3-2015 of the fourth Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Health, regarding the resignations of Hospital Governors. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Health about the impact on the economy of Northern Greece from the free movement of products with Skopje. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the delay in the implementation of programmes of EUR 600 million approved funding through the NSRF for the creation of a hundred and sixty thousand new jobs. Mrs Dritselli has the floor for 15 minutes. And I would ask that the time should be respected, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering the bill, let me make a small comment, because I think it is very unfortunate - it is my personal view - that Mr Brutsis has intervened. I do not think that it corresponds either to the spirit or to the issue that this bill approaches, but also to the efforts, Mr Brutsi, and to the political leadership of the Ministry, but also to all the parties, which, in the relevant Commission with great attention, have been heard many things from what has been said, have entered into this bill. [[DE]] [[SO]] On the other hand, it is a pity that such an important issue is to be used for micro-political purposes, for shade issues to be thrown into a debate. However, it is your choice. We don't have to say anything else. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill - a section on Greek sport, a bill that changes a page in the country's sports events, but it is also doing the popular demand for cleansing, transparency, credibility and justice. Many have been said and written in recent times about the Government's initiative to change the image of professional sport. It is true that this attempt was initially attempted to degrade, then demonized, and at the end it was swept away. However, all efforts have fallen void and no one has succeeded, precisely because the need for this intervention is confirmed every day by sporting events themselves. There is a need for an active response to a problem which we all confess to feeding hatred, violence and racist behaviour. The government and the political leadership of the Ministry with a sense of responsibility, with coordinated efforts, with constant real dialogue and a spirit of cooperation, managed to remove any shadow of suspicion regarding its real intentions. After all, the message in all directions has been clear and clear: Cooperation against corruption, respect for laws, determination to conflict with the whole pathogenous system. That is what society itself requires, which has completely devalued the spectacle of professional sport today. More and more often in sports controversy, on Greek stadiums violence overshadows the spectacle. Scandals rattle athletic values and the winner most often seems to be lawlessness and fanatic hatred. In this climate it is heard in various ways that the state is attempting to violate the rights of sporting public limited companies, for example by making them accountable to the Minister responsible for the issues of sport or to disciplinary bodies involving regular judicial officers. Here I would like to stress at the outset that, on a pretext, the idea of self-organising the sport movement - which is admittedly a revolutionary idea - organized interests are bleaking professional sport and trying to maintain the impunity regime in which they have learned to move. These interests, however, will not stop the government. The laws will be implemented and the real reforms for the democratic and radical reconstruction of Greek sport will proceed. With this bill, therefore, the Greek Government is attempting to promote a first package of measures to exempt Greek professional sport from the phenomena of violence that have been afflicting him for so many years. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, have we condemned a death date in recent years? How many times have lives been at stake, how many fortunes have been destroyed, and of course, how many times have we been ashamed of the violence of verbal or racist attacks in sports spaces? On how many occasions has the fanatic press incited hatred by calling on the organized army of fans to war? And since these findings are not theoretical, let me submit to the minutes some recent headlines of fanatic newspapers, of various colours, which bear hate titles not only after derby inside, but also in the context of great interrogations of Greek groups or even of national Greece. They are literally disgraceful of even reading. "War balls", we read somewhere, after the victory of a Greek basketball team. I don't even dare mention the subtitle. "War in Moscow" is the title of another newspaper before a fight by a Greek team in Europe. "Your mind" is the third title of a fanatic newspaper, showing fans attack with bats and smokers and, finally, the most impressive, before the game of the national team with Hungary, the title of sporting newspaper shocks: "Bruise them." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Panayota Drichellis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[AD]] [[1DE]] This picture, therefore, in professional sport in the country complements the judicial investigations into the dismantling of criminal organisations in football: the bulk of thousands of pages, the involvement of football players, races and any pathogens that one can think of. And after all this, a clear question arises: Is the state entitled to remain silent and to remain undisturbed? How does the government have to respond to all of this in order to protect sport in particular and society itself from this situation? To this question we are all asked to answer, as is the case with this draft law. Indeed, because some have rushed to burglary their clothes with the alleged violation of the self-defense, screaming and jeopardizing for "Greek football," it would be advisable to know that UEFA itself has declared itself determined to help the state clean once and for all from this abscess. Mr. Infantino, who also visited our country and with whom we had the opportunity to meet, stated clearly that he is on the side of the Greek state, in order to directly beat lawlessness in Greek football. International practices, such as the FIFA Moral Code, for example, need to be implemented in our country as well and are directly excluded from the football players involved in scandals. It is precisely the case that Mr Infantino is calling for our country and the football players to be colluded, no matter how much they bother, no matter how much they do not. The bill we are discussing attempts to equip the state and society with a first set of answers to the issue of violence and lawlessness in professional sport. Clearly the subject of violence is a multi-faceted issue. That is why the government's actions are not going to stop here. However, immediately with this bill, there are specific possibilities of action for the Minister responsible for sport, and justice with all the necessary institutional arsenal is equipped, so that he can respond effectively to the existing problems. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] The first package of measures in the bill relates to the Minister's ability to intervene disciplinaryly in the event of sports anonymities not cooperating with the state to deal with fanatic or racist violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but we are unable to attend the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Petrakos, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u37	If the New Democracy colleagues want to consult each other, let them go outside to discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Petrakos, you don't have the floor. Carry on, Mrs. Drittelli.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u39	Because there is a great debate in Europe on this subject, namely whether the responsibility of the incidents lies with the person who commits them or whether there is a collective responsibility of the person who may be tolerated or induced, the bill introduces specific provisions for both cases. If the teams do not cooperate with the state, then administrative penalties provide for fines and exclusions from sporting events, which are escalating on the basis of the principle of proportionality. With regard to the criminal treatment of perpetrators of violent incidents, aggravating cases are introduced in the relevant articles of the Criminal Code, which concern particularly violent and racist behaviours. On the same level, for offences that do not incur imprisonment, it is envisaged that the court may impose upon the sentenced person to remain at home during the weekend for as long as the sentence is suspended. A second important issue is the responsibility of the fanatic press. The state is equipped with appropriate legal tools to stop the incitement of fanatic or racist hatred by the media of mass information. Obviously, there is no question of manipulating freedom of expression, but that is why the bill makes the owners or the media responsible responsible for the opinion procedure for disciplinary decisions. It upholds the position of the information officers. We have also tabled an amendment for that very reason. SYRIZA supports unbundled and healthy journalism, and I think the government is promoting the social good of information to cover sports events, the free entry of photoreporters. This amendment we think the Ministry will see positive. As far as the stages are concerned, the bill provides that professional matches will not be allowed to take place on grounds that have not completed the installation of the electronic ticket and electronic surveillance instruments. In this way, a clear framework is introduced to prevent violence, but also to avoid tax evasion and economic fraud. [[MM]] [[AD]] Despite the reactions - for incomprehensible reasons - the measure will be implemented with the alternative for those groups that need more time to adapt for next year to fight behind closed doors. The state is perpendicular to this matter. These systems have cost the Greek State about EUR 15 million and will finally have to work. The third question is the operation of the links between organised fans. This bill is given three months in all fan clubs to operate legally. Otherwise they will not be able to obtain tickets or rent spaces for their accommodation. The infringements of these prohibitions will bring serious penalties. Fourthly, it is the fight against financial fraud in professional sport. The Minister is given the opportunity to carry out any checks on arbitrators, arbitrators and arbitrators, while at the same time the state is equipped with a modern legal arsenal to combat the manipulation of racing and betting fraud. Another issue is the establishment of the disciplinary bodies of professional sport. It is for the institutions to be set up by ordinary judges and prosecutors. A lot has been written in this regard. The Minister has also mentioned. It would be useful to stress, however, that sporting reality itself imposes the necessity of this arrangement. The impunity that has existed for so many years in the field of professional sport is mainly due to the abuse of the autonomy provided for in the previous institutional framework. And it is interesting to see European experience in this matter, where an important question arises: why in other countries is sporting justice working directly? Why in Italy, for example, is sporting justice dismantling scandals and punishing groups, however popular they may be? That should concern us all. On the other hand, the financial uncertainties of sports homogeneous companies renting sports spaces are settled. Companies are required to directly regulate their debts, otherwise they will not be able to participate in the championships. With this bill, tolerance to behaviours of inconsistency ends and everyone is invited to be typical of their obligations. But this bill also enhances the position of athletes. In its provisions, reciprocity between the obligations of clubs and athletes is established, thereby formally guaranteeing the rights of the latter. At the same level, a number of provisions that upgrade sport ADI are laid down. In particular, there is the possibility of remuneration leave for athletes, coaches and sport operators to participate in international sports events. I would like to ask that, Minister, the words'relevant provisions' in Article 11(3) and in the case of sportsmen in the pre-national groups should be included. We've said it before. It is important, because these athletes who participate in CHAMPIONS LEAGUE participate in an organisation that is officially recognised by UEFA and in which only the Greek team participates and conquers the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u40	We're on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u41	Good. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the government with this bill is attempting to respond directly to a situation that we all recognise as problematic, but which we have not really faced for years. In this effort we have our ally the very sporting community, the Greek society, as well as the European and international sports authorities. In this direction we are looking for the consent of all democratic political wings, so that together we can move on to free Greek sport from the paths that afflict him over time. With this aim we work with all actors and from the position of the government we coordinate our efforts so that the climate in Greek sport can change and the joy of the game finally win the black of violence and of lawlessness. Finally, with regard to the negotiations of the Deputy Minister of Sports and the Greek Government, which he conducted with the European and the World Football Federation, we really should all welcome the entire Greek society, because the state has managed to make its positions understandable and to complete an effort in which the international authorities have finally stood by us. This is also the best response to all these dangers of some who have unfortunately invested politically in GREXIT football. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mrs Drichelli, and why she has kept her time in a good way. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" Hall and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Arsaceio Municipal School of Psychics (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for 15 minutes is the rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Koukodemos. Here, Mr. Kukodimos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand what draft legislation we are debating here today, what the Commission or anyone else are talking about? Allow me to open up my position to say a few words about sport, because I really think they should be heard in this Chamber. Because we are talking for days now about the problems of violence, corruption in the fields and sports spaces, and we have not been as close as we should have been in the part called'sporter', that is, people who give the best of themselves, who lack many things of their everyday lives and dedicate their lives to sport. And I mean the phrase 'dedicate their lives to sport' and they and their families. In today's House there are too many such people, Minister, who have devoted a great deal of their lives to sport. For all of us, Mr Minister, a debate that focuses on sport is not a paper exercise, it is not a demonstration of power or statements of impression. For all of us, Minister, the state had to open the streets to sport and not shut them down. So you are addressing people who have spent some of their lives in courts and sports spaces, people who have served with moral and dignity the ideas, the values and ideals of sport and not people who, for the sake of their party cheques, will try to put an end to whatever good the state is trying to do. These should be the ones you should listen to rather than the UEFA suggestions. I do not want to exacerbate the spirits, but we are talking about 'assumps'. And I think if the "ass" were a sport, you would have taken the championship, and if it were a manual, you would have made your dowry! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 'assodumba'. But, Minister, you will find us in front of you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u44	In the Commission why... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u45	I'll tell you later. You will find us in front of any other case, whether today or tomorrow, and in the bill you want to bring if it is contrary to what the international rules on sport lay down. That's what I wanted to say in an introductory statement, because we've dealt with hostiles in the consultation process...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u46	So now you're saying... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u47	...when you should use the experience we have and our knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, weeks have now been said and much has been written about this bill, such as opinions, opinions, comments, crises, and even criticisms. The common denominator of all of us is the assumption that there are serious diseases in the field of football, which we must deal with. Our point is how. And here is the big issue, there was the point of disagreement with the Minister. Because the Minister chose to break the way before, even listened before he even talked to one of us. We have said in good time, Minister, that this is a fragmentary bill which does not provide solutions. We have therefore reached the 'almost five' so that you can finally get back to reality. We spent substantial time dialogue, to convince you that a possible Grexit would be disastrous for Greek football. We have literally had to reach the red line, so that you can stop your affectionate tactics from sending ultimatums to international federations, so that you can come to make improvements today. Why, Minister, did this procedure not take precedence over you? That is what we were talking about in the first place, and that is what we asked the Commission to do. What is this noise of statements and impressions, such as 'I don't do back', 'I don't take writings' and all the other things you have told us? We told you to the Commission that we cannot throw all Greek football into the trash because you are unable to find a solution. [[SS]] [[KO]] Because for us this piece of legislation, as originally submitted, was a declaration of failure to resolve the problem. It's a real problem. We all agree. You are not the only one in this Chamber - you know - Minister, you have children. And our kids go to the field and we want to get back safe. There is a solution, Minister, and you know it and we all know it and we all served in the field of sport in whatever capacity. We know the difficulties you have and are facing. We know the problems and we know that they are great. But we can't level it all up and rebuild it all over again. And luckily, you've even seen it at the last minute. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy today proves that it has a responsible political attitude and does not opposition to the opposition. We felt from the outset that we should tackle the problem of violence in the fields as a whole and not a fragmented one, with a comprehensive bill. We have tabled our disagreements with philosophy and manner and in essence. What we have said to all tons from the outset is that violence prevails everywhere, Minister. Aggression is evident even in work, school, street, interpersonal relations, family and public life. I give you the example of Mr Varoufakis. So since we realised this problem, the government itself is being ignored and encouraged by the assumption that violence can sometimes be justified, instead of the absolute admission that violence is always and everywhere, without any exception, is unjustified. And we said very simply - we made proposals to the Commission, but you did not hear them - that, with education and proper education, we were doing School Sports with Mr. Loverdos during my term of office at the Ministry. Keep it up, it's a very good program. We need public dialogue and rules. You didn't make a dialogue with us, Minister. You claim here that you have spoken to everyone. With us, you didn't talk. We need prevention policies and not repression. You're going with penalties without doing anything about it before. We need to combat unemployment, improve the operating framework of the Media and objective information, conclude transnational agreements. Take the headphones off your ears and sit down and listen to the experience of strangers how they solved the problem, Minister. We are therefore in favour of stricter penalties. We're in favor! We have also said so in the Commission, we will not be inconsistent. We want a strict framework of penalties to be applied to those who practice violence on the ground. But that is what we want to do within Europe and on the basis of international organisations and what they define. I'll make a reference to both articles on education. Once again, in education and in particular in matters of disruption to the educational community, we are very specific about placement. But the Minister is missing. We believe that, again in about five, you are bringing two articles, with apologies for the expression, Mr Minister, of a bill on violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u48	Why do you say the Minister is missing? I'm not here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u49	For Mr. Kourakis, I say, Minister, not for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u50	The Minister doesn't have to be here all the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u51	And we are already discussing the draft law on education in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. This, of course, is fragmentary and - as the Commission has mentioned - includes transitional and pilot arrangements. Let us finally come up with a comprehensive bill to discuss all issues relating to society, not with decisions and laws of a transitional or pilot nature. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I had expressed a wish and in statements to the journalists at the Ministry that this bill should be passed unanimously by the Greek Parliament, precisely because such a decision, in addition to all the other disagreements we have, will have an important symbolism for society itself. We are pleased that logic has prevailed, even at the last moment, but given that all those involved in sport and the international federations will be positively expressed when taking into account the final bill. We declare that we will be indulging, unless with what you have brought us at the last minute, UEFA agrees and is correctly formulated on the basis of the suggestions we have made to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u52	We thank Mr Koukodemos for giving him the opportunity, with the time he has followed, to be able to speak with other Members. We're moving on to Special Buyers. Mr Antony Gregos has the floor on behalf of the People's Association - Golden Dawn for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. It tends this draft law to be converted into a ‘UEFA or FIFA draft’. Of course we agree to be in contact with the international and global federations, but not these federations point us exactly what should be done in Greek football and Greek sport. Regarding the draft 'Urgent measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions': we consider it to be of particular importance as it concerns a large number of citizens with many social, political and economic implications. As we have told you in the Commission, the phenomenon of land violence is indeed complex in terms of the causes, the event and the results. I am really surprised that you are talking about the fight against violence, when the region of Exarchates and other parts of the country is unbaptised and when the hooded action in town centers continues. The subject of field violence is primarily a matter of education and information for us. Prevention is the first stage from which the relevant ministries should begin. In terms of prevention, action is required by the Ministries on informing pupils and students about the phenomenon that, unfortunately, has cost human lives. I'm talking about information in schools, in universities, in sports clubs, in unions. This briefing can be made by authoritative lawyers, sports psychology teachers, police officers, athletes who are standards and, of course, above all, from us as family members of society, but also as MPs. I shall present a statement for the Minutes of the House a statement by a Member of the Golden Dawn with a view to a final cup of Greece between two groups. The statement states: "The conduct of a final cup between two historical groups must finally be a celebration and an advertising of sport. No one will benefit from violent actions that only specific interests want. The state must, however, defend the physical integrity, safety and dignity of all fans and, above all, everyone must think that no cup has any greater value than human life." It's a media statement. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Gregos, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Speaking, Minister, and with Mr Iphatino, with UEFA and FIFA, we considered it very good and appropriate at your meeting - and because it has national implications - that this matter should have been raised: we had tabled questions on the treatment of violence on the ground, but also a letter to FIBA and FIFA, stressing that the name should be respected. We said in these letters that it is not possible to use the term 'MAKEDONIA' in any sports organization. I submit the relevant documents for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Gregos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I'm continuing in the bill: Prevention will have little economic cost, but huge results. I am, of course, excluding the technical means that help to combat this phenomenon. It is really a problem for cameras to be placed in small municipal stages, as I said to the Commission, where, unfortunately, incidents occur. In the large stages, millions of euros have been spent. During the hearing of the bodies in the Commission, things were heard a little - very well-known. Interest, vertically and horizontally involved, group control, guarantee letters, updates and certificates. Also, there were crises of censorship of the Panhellenic Sports Association, which are contrary to the athletic ideal. We in the Commission stressed the sanctions that need to be in place and the time-consuming omissions that are being observed. We have stressed that fines should indeed be imposed for infringements, particularly in cases of relapse, but without them being arrogant and having a collective character. The following question arises here: How exactly will the scale of the incident be judged and how will it be shared in terms of the responsibility of the people? To become more specific: Imagine becoming a clash of fans outside the field. How will these responsibilities be shared? You also know very well that the phenomenon of transferring responsibilities is common, which, unfortunately, will continue to exist. We call in parallel to the fight against violence, the cleansing of the football site, transparency, isology, but also security and respect for fans and athletes. [[BM]] [[2AB]] We agreed on upgrading the IAEA, which is the state's sovereign body to deal with violence in sport. Observers must draw up reports, keep records and, above all, be impartial. We pointed out the role of the police in designing, but also the risk of those involved in such operations. Let's say here again that many police officers have fallen victim to such behaviour. We demand exemplary punishment in cases where anti-national slogans are heard in struggles. As far as the online ticket is concerned, we fear that it is a precursor of file and possible misuse of personal data. We do not know who will manage this database and what will happen with the disaster. We also consider it necessary to show prosecutors at large risk games, which I think is also the case today. Unfortunately, as I have said before, incidents occur outside racing spaces and not only during the course of a race. It can be two days ago, two days later, even in unrelated areas, in a cafeteria, in a park, anywhere. We insist on the principle of reciprocity with the international federations on the subject of information. With regard to racist slogans, these cannot be judged objectively. For example, the slogan “Istanbul is Greek” is a racist slogan? Who and how does he judge a slogan of racist? We must say here that there are athletes - and unfortunately many of them are professionals - who are causing fans, wearing some blouse with a badge that insults our own country or country of another. The punishment must be exemplary. We consider it necessary to regularly grant amateur associations and to strengthen members of our paralympic groups. A check must be made on the property situation of arbitrators and observers and the merits of their choice and development must be respected. We note that violence in the field is not a Greek phenomenon, but a European phenomenon. I think everyone agrees to maintaining the self-defence of the VDU. In Article 15, we will be reintroduced in the debate on the articles. We just have to say that the balances are too thin about state control. Minister, I don't know if you've been informed how the elections are being held in the PPP. I think the speaker of the Independent Greeks has been mentioned. But you really need to see this. If you don't know some things, there are special people to tell you exactly how the elections take place within the PDO. I will not extend for the moment. Several measures have been taken at times. However, until now, no matter what measures have been taken, they have not been effective. The assistance of groups, institutions and, above all, of the state must be decisive, but not disastrous, unfair and unjust in fighting. Clearance in the football field is a requirement of every healthy-thinking fan. Unrighteousness and impunity swell the phenomenon. As we have said to you in the Commission, people often express themselves on the streets because they have a accumulated hatred, I would say, against some people and against the injustices that exist. As far as disciplinary and judicial bodies, consisting of regular and active judges, are concerned, we express reservations as this is inconsistent with the ILO and no regular judges are provided for in such cases. Let us note that the incidents are often caused by arson statements by actors prior to the execution of critical matches, as well as by arbitrators' decisions. Nor should we consider fans to be criminal by definition. On the contrary, those causing episodes are hating healthy fans. The economic aspect of the bill is very important. I think that no one wants the groups to be financially exterminated, the exclusion from European organisations and the international implosion. If the government considers this to be a pressure measure, too many factors should be taken into account. I would remind you that when incidents occur in some area, it is not just the fans who are at risk. The athletes are in danger, the technical staff are in danger. And not just that. To impose super-private fines on teams also has a social impact, because sportsmen are not only athletes, but various employees, accountants, advertisers, workers in security services, workshops, suppliers, travel agencies and others. I would remind you again that the problem is complex and difficult to resolve. It requires determination and support from everyone. We need patience and proper interventions. Unfortunately, it is transferred from society and turned into mass hatred, so that human lives are destroyed by an indiscretion at a time of anger that may even come from alien factors. [[RG]] [[BM]] Situations can become uncontrollable and there are natural and moral perpetrators. It is important to protect the teams and especially the National Group that has made us all proud. Not all of us, most of us. Because some do not feel proud - some left-wing party - with the successes of the National Group, they have said so. We are tabling some proposals and we believe that they will be accepted: Mandatory presence of doctors at sports meetings. Installed medical establishments in upper areas. View from Television Spot media with a message against violence and on the ground on special screens. Rewards of groups whose fans do not undertake episodes. Minister, Greek sport - and football and basketball - we should help him first of all. I have two questions to put to you in your speech. You, as Minister, can you finally interrupt a fight between a Greek team and a stranger? Do you think that, in the end, this bill will be able to combat the phenomenon of violence? We believe that you will not be able to do so. We shall also be placed on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u54	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and the Standing Committee on Production and Trade present their report to the draft law ‘Repeal of 27 March 2015 Act of Legislative Content ‘Additional Arrangement on the sustainability of the Greek Sugar Industry S.A.’ and of late debts’ (A'35). The special speaker from Potami, George Mavrotas, has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Urgent measures to tackle violence in sport and allow me to begin with a small introduction. We cannot see violence broken out in sport than in the rest of society. It is not really sports because of violence. Just in sport violence finds a hospitable home. In every society there are stocks of rage and anger, and many times the fields and sport become the valve of evaporation in this resilient pot. So, instead of having entertainment and entertainment many times people go to the stadiums to get rid of and that's what actually creates the episodes. I come from the field of sport from a team sport that has history. I have seen incidents, I have experienced incidents, and that is why I am very sensitive to this issue, as our party is aware. Potami, which has actually called for the joint meeting of the Committee on Educational and Social Affairs on the issue of bowling, because we believe that as long as they are involved in bowling today in schools they may be taking part in incidents on the various stadiums, so that these topics are very interconnected. Let's go to this bill, though. Urgent measures to tackle violence in sport. It has a communicational fertile title, but within, as the Minister said in his speech, there is actually an attempt to intervene in Greek football, a Greek football that he is suffering - I will not use the terminology as a gang or mafia, etc. - but surely it's a not morally and angelically faked world. We see this because the football report is flooded, not by goals and struggles, but by interrogators and prosecutors, and so has lost credibility. He's removed the families from the stadiums. Now they go to the stadiums militant fans to make more and more trouble, so that the family chief stays at his house and watch them from TV something we don't want. There were laws before. Date of birth: (a) 2725/99, (b) 2757/2002, (c) 3708/2008, (d) 4049/2012. In other words, you see a series of legislations which have tried to deal with the subject of violence. [[PM]] [[RG]] But when we have a problem in Greece, what we are used to doing is making a law without further seeing its implementation. We're saying we're going to fight violence on the stadiums when we can't fight smoking in a closed gym at the time of the match. How are we gonna do that? During the debate on the draft law in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we believe it is a very fruitful process, both within the Commission and outside the Commission, with the meeting we held with the Executive Secretary of UEFA, Mr Infantino. There have been some things and we think that we have also contributed to the formulation of a climate which helped the Minister in the later negotiations. We will not lie to the Minister that he went to Geneva to negotiate his approval. It is good to reconcile reality and realism in our international relations, and that is something we have to do as a country, because we are a country which, in our view, is part of a European context and that must remain in it. But it is not good for the original communication lionisms that have become more important for internal consumption. We think that if the Minister listened to our initial remarks, he wouldn't have to travel. Our main objection to this bill is in Article 1, an article which gives superpowers to a vague context. For example, it includes terms such as'severe episodes' and 'particularly serious episodes', without defining what these serious incidents and particularly serious incidents are, as previous laws have done. The Minister is therefore called upon to have almost empire responsibilities over there, powers of a super-judicial. It has improved somewhat by saying that it will also take the opinion of the Standing Committee on the Conservation of Violence or other Bodies. In our view, making decisions at political cost, if they are strict, or politically advantageous, if they are loose, should not be the job of a minister. A minister should not legislate on the basis of and in the light of his or her personal abilities and resistance to political costs, and he should think that his successors may not have his or her own resistance to political costs, so he also legislates for the future. The oxymoor in this case is that on the one hand we put regular judges on the other to have more confidence in disciplinary penalties and, on the other, because we will not have much confidence in disciplinary penalties, we also come to put administrative penalties with strict administrative measures. That is why, as a Potami, we have proposed from the outset, by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, that this role should be taken over by an independent authority, but we have seen that this government has 'allergies' to the independent authorities, so that this has not been accepted. With regard to the press and the press, there is a problem of censorship. Some things have been heard before. We don't ignore the fact that many times you're ashamed to look at the sports guy with the headlines that exist. On the other hand, however, we must ensure that there can be no expressions such as 'arbitration in this game was not good, and these referees must not re-block' or, as Mrs Dritsel said earlier, 'war in Moscow'. A title like this will draw a fine? Who will judge these? That is why, in this case, in the press, we would be in favour of the proposal made by the PSAT to establish an independent authority. Of course, the Minister has his specific responsibilities, along with the Minister of State, the media officer, and consults the relevant press unions, the ESA, the WTO and the PSAT. Nevertheless, he has the final decision. Let us go to the other issues of the bill such as electronic tickets and supervisory instruments, which we find very positive. They've been denouncing before. Just, as the Minister said in his speech, now the difference is that there are sanctions. Some of the sanctions we have proposed, at first the Minister saw them skeptically, but later, when they were proposed by UEFA themselves, they were then incorporated into the bill, such as making the teams put these supervisory instruments, electronic ticket, and so on, otherwise they will play behind closed doors. That was one of the proposals we made. [[EP]] [[PM]] In violence we need to know that there are natural and moral perpetrators and we need to act in both directions. The electronic media is to find the natural perpetrators. Finally, with regard to the financial aspects of the case, i.e. who will pay for the supervisory means, the unions, the organizing authorities, etc., there we have some proposals and some clarification is needed in the bill, because, for example, two organising authorities may have the same space, for example, the Super League and the EEA. Who's going to take the cost? These are things that need to be settled. But let's see what's missing from this bill. In our opinion, there is a lack of explicit reference to inappropriate behaviours of big players, factors related to sports. The bill refers to natural persons, however, another natural person is Mr - Takis, the perverse one, and another is the largeest of an ODP. We need to look at these things differently. I think the Minister has in his hands tools, such as the reference to the Frequent Spirit Committee, where he can apply penalties to sport-related factors. There should also be expressly in the bill, as many other things are mentioned. They may have been relegated, but it would be good to highlight them. There is a umbilical cord in fact between riots and administrations in some cases, which must be cut off. We have to assume the responsibilities of the various groups. There can be no question that there are relations between administrations and organized fans, provided that one sees who are presidents in the amateur parts of the different unions. We also suggested, but it was not accepted at the moment, that there should be a record of riots at sports events, as there is in England, so that we know who the riots are, which are often arrested and released, so the system has no memory to protect itself. Of course, there have also been amendments that have been accepted, such as, for example, what I said before, that a group can play if it does not have the supervisory means in its court, but behind closed doors, and the report on smuggled toys coming from the international federations, read and disclosed to Parliament as well. This bill, however, also had two articles on education to which I refer in the last part of my speech. In general, Articles 13 and 14 were two emblematic articles, regardless of the contents of the bill. We are not surprised, of course, by this poor parliamentary practice. A day or two ago an emergency procedure came an entire bill, which changes the map to secondary education and staffing capacity. It is a legislation that'spray, wipe and finish' which we do not agree on, especially in the field of education. The first part to be negotiated is the abolition of the Bank of Issues in the First and Second High Schools, an institution to admit that it had imperfections and malfunctions in its first application, but it was a step towards obtaining high school its lost credibility. It was a mistake, in our opinion, to link it to introductorys, but it introduced a single system of national evaluation, which was objective as far as possible for pupils to assess, which would not depend on the teacher concerned, that is to say, a degree of objectivity in evaluation and rating. Also, another good thing he did was that he urged the teachers to deplete the matter, that is not to leave some pieces of matter that would not have been taught, so that it would be the level of knowledge from class to class for each school, from Evros to Gadus, given. A second element was the promotion of an average of all courses in these classes in 9.5. It was a measure that we do not agree on, because we will have the funny cases of children who have 5 and 6 in the basic courses - Mathematics, Language, etc. - to move on to the next classes and with this lowering of the bar is like, basically, when we don't like reality, the worse for reality. [[A M ……]] [[EP]] I mean, we're not looking at the problem in the face, but we're trying to get it out of the way by lowering standards. Also in the middle - an asterisk here - is not counting on Physical Education - and this seems to me particularly disappointing and, indeed, when we pass a bill of sport - a Physical Education, which is downgraded in schools and with some such provisions is even more degraded. In Potami we believe in a public school that provides the necessary knowledge and not a school of minor effort, which will actually create written citizens who will come out into society, whether or not they will continue at the university. In other words, we do not want to take the bar down because the athlete cannot pass it, but to work out the athlete more to go over the bar. A final measure on education was the replacement of hours without prolongation of the school year. We think it's a missing measure. There should also be this possibility in the school club, that is to say for a few days the school year, because holidays and excursions are not enough if there are many hours' losses. In conclusion, I would like to say that the big bet for us on the basis of this bill is how the state will deal with the natural and moral perpetrators of sport violence. Laws have been made many in recent years, as we have seen. Everything will, however, be judged in the field of application and, in particular, in the field of sport here, we will be in order to be useful and to help with our proposals and our criticism, because it is an area that we know about. We are therefore in this draft legislation which is in principle positive for urgent measures to tackle violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-five students and students and an educational attendant from the 2nd Arsadeio Municipal School of Psychics (B' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Giokas, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not consider it unnecessary at all in a bill which involves even exceptional measures to tackle violence on the ground and other acute problems in professional sport and particularly in professional football to discuss once again and to discuss the causes of these phenomena. If they are not identified, if the causes of all these phenomena are not addressed, which we are describing, whatever emergency measures are taken they will have a limit, they will be ineffective and we will come every time to discuss what went wrong. The truth is that in previous years - perhaps not exactly that content - there were measures to tighten sanctions in previous bills, which either were not actually implemented or actually implemented and did not actually deliver the expected results or others were cancelled before they even became effective. We are talking about violence, about fixed toys in a social phenomenon, such as sport, which by its very nature promotes and should promote exactly the opposite. In other words, it should promote fair play, competition. We are talking about a social phenomenon which is primarily an enemy of violence, of this kind of violence. These phenomena, however, are created by the moment sport and especially football that is the most popular sport, transformed into a field of profitability, become an entrepreneurial and competitive field. It is important to ask ourselves when all these phenomena have been created and gambled in the field of football, which we have been living in recent years. [[MO]] [[AM]] Because these phenomena weren't always there. And if there were cases of violence, even in previous decades, they certainly did not have the character of the organized crime they have today. This crime has become even more complex with fascist violence, even with fascist, racist organizations operating in the field. Everyone knows that. So when did all this start? They started when football and sport as a whole began to be mutated into a professional, when major businessmen started entering, when they started to drop the big money from UEFA and FIFA, international events, when the bet came into our lives. Since then, these phenomena have started to grow, to be gigantic and really today there has been a situation that has reached the unprecedented and overwhelming majority of fans have turned their backs with disgusting and indignation over all these phenomena and against football and sports that strengthens them. That is why we consider and want to emphasise right from the outset that indignation and fascism of fans about these phenomena must not look at the symptoms, but aim at the real cause of the problem. In other words, to target the fact that football also dominate big economic interests, large industrialists, shipowners, bankers. That is to say, precisely the same big shareholders and large-scale owners of sports limited companies, those responsible for impoverishing our people and other sectors of social life. All of these are making particular use of football for their business plans and are seeking to bring together the team's fans in competition. The parties that have ruled in previous years, the New Democracy and the PASOK, have had huge responsibility, because they have served this model of "sport - business" for years. They donated the big businessmen in the field, deleted debts, handed over sports centers to big shareholders, while sport shrinks for the people and youth, amateur clubs plant, stadiums and swimming pools close, state subsidies to sport and federations are reduced, and natural education at school is shrinking. This has resulted in youth in our country showing the highest and ever increasing proportions of obesity and musculoskeletal problems and of course being removed from sport as an active participant and not as a spectator, as is the case in recent years. Because the active participant in sport, who knows how to play the game, knows the rules of the game and is disciplined by the youngest age in this climate, is much less prone to phenomena of ethnic and fanatic violence. The solution, Mr Mavrotas, is not to take account of the school's degree in Physical Education. A solution would be to increase the hours of physical education at school, which have been reduced over the past few years and continue to fall with the current government. That would be a solution in a opposite direction, which of course does not exist and of course have parties and governments and institutions, such as the ETUC. Our main criticism in the bill is that it does not give any radical solutions to these causes, which are essentially condensed in this respect: business activity in the field of sport and particularly in the field of football. This, in our opinion, also proves that the current government, on the one hand, denounces the terrible phenomena in the field of football, but does not question the model of football and sports for businessmen, but, on the other, considers that we should go with them all in the next few years. [[FT]] [[MO]] We believe, on the contrary, that the real resolution of football and sport as a whole presupposes demolition of the foundations of this rotten building, which has its backings on the big businessmen, on the political and sporting factors with which all of them are intertwined and which incorporate into these complications other activities, whether by setting up games or by making up black money, or by redeeming the love and interest of thousands of fans for their clubs, in order to form and build a supposedly popular profile and to pave the way for other economic and business designs. The bill is trying to deal with and manage the symptoms and not cure the illness. And because the disease will continue to exist, the symptoms will not only be treated, but, in our opinion, they will increase and multiply. The bill takes a number of measures, of course, to tighten up penalties, to monitor, to suppress, to take institutional interventions, such as those concerning the SGP, justice and the Standing Committee on Violence. Several of these measures have been stated right from the outset, at least in their original form - and I would like to stress this - and before the interventions which the Minister has made today, we have considered them necessary and said that we will vote on them. In fact, we have proposed even more radical measures in the current context, which would certainly not have tackled the situation as a whole, but would have been a further obstacle to the business activities of all these circuits. In fact, these measures we have proposed have been dealt with positively by both people of sport and by journalists throughout the past period. What we have asked for, what we have proposed: Eliminate the participation of Greek teams in the bet, any bet or gambling game, not only in the Olympic Games, in any legitimate betting game either internal or external. Of course, you'll tell me there's an illegal bet. In our view, that does not matter. That would be a measure, regardless of whether these measures can even find ways to overcome them. The second measure that could be adopted is the Anonymous Sports Companies - OEM, OEM - to be controlled by the Ministry of Development. That must be the case, for their finances, for their assets, for their viability and for all the rest. Of course the Ministry of Sport will have a say on a number of racing issues. However, we are talking about businesses - the Anonymous Sports Companies are businesses - and therefore the Ministry of Development must have the power to control these enterprises, as it has the power to control all other businesses. And the Ministry of Sports should be responsible for real sport, mass sport, amateur sport, whether there are unions, whether there are any fields, whether there is infrastructure, whether there is personnel for Physical Education, for sports in school in the neighborhood, for unions. This should be the role of the Ministry concerned and the companies, the enterprises at the Ministry of Development. Third sentence: No funding for Anonymous Sports Companies by the State, whether directly or indirectly. The indirect funding, you know, has been made and made in many ways in the past years, and with debt write-offs - in fact recently on the occasion of the Act of Legislative Content passed by the Government in the bill for the hundreds of instalments, it was written in the press that they benefited - and there were - from the deletion of certain specific football companies - and through the financing of land belonging to shareholders rather than unions. Let me remind you of Larissa's case, where the court that was built belonged to the great shareholder of the team, and when the big shareholder left the team, he took the field with him, so the team doesn't have a field to play. These are the phenomena of how all these interests have been supported in previous years in the field of sport. Such measures do not exist in the bill. Another sentence: Prohibition of lending players between groups of the same category. We all know that from the existence of professional football there is a surrounding atmosphere for players - satellites in one or the other team. Prohibition on lending players to groups of the same class. [[AG]] [[FT]] There are therefore measures, there are proposals, which I do not say will resolve and root out the cause of the problem, but they could put some obstacles to this whole uncontrolled business lobby, which is shredding the football area. Such measures, unfortunately, do not exist in the bill. You said they'd come sometime with the sports bill. Of course, they could have come now, but this requires a conflict with these business interests which we believe are not prepared at this level - not you, Mr Minister, or you, the government - to do. Not only are there not these things, but in the draft law, for which we have said that a number of individual regulations will be supported and voted on, and we have said so in the Committee on Parliament, there have been a number of changes to what has been achieved by the Committee on Morphic Affairs last week and on the occasion of the Minister's visit to Geneva. Three key issues included in the UEFA letter: Prohibition on the participation of Greek groups in international events. I accept the statement by the Minister that in any case if you punish a team or discontinue the championship, this will also result in these groups not participating in the international organisations of UEFA, etc. The other two, however, Mr Minister, in our view, must not change. I refer also to that provision concerning the ordinary judges and how it had been regulated in the original version of the draft law - in which the Committee on Morphic Affairs concluded and with our agreement - and the part concerning the self-employed. As far as the self-help is concerned, we must make it clear that the Greek people will understand it. In previous years, the problem was not whether or not there would be a self - control, but what everyone thought was self - control. The U.S. considered itself to be a self-interest much more than all other sports federations, who were interested in the self-interested as was the case with the NCA, and there were these arrangements that existed. Here comes the original draft law. It abolishes the previous law, brings a wording of Article 15, in our view, in the right direction, which has been devastated along the way and has been dismantled by the last intervention. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. Excuse me, I have before me the UEFA proposal, which reiterates the Minister's statement and says: "The Hellenic Football Federation manages its affairs independently and without any influence from third parties". That's UEFA's proposal. The Ministry only put the word 'internal' in front of 'cases'. We make the prediction that this arrangement will find it in front of the Ministry and anyone trying to do something in the next few months. Whether in matters of arbitration or in matters of organ election there will be an invocation for regulation and obstacles to it, as expressed. The aggressive definition of "internal" says nothing. Anyone who wants to stop in the name of the self-employed and in his name who wants to be punished by UEFA, further legislative initiatives, will invoke this provision. The second question is the judges. And that was where we agreed with the original draft law that provided for the disciplinary bodies of the NCA to be made up of ordinary judges, which will arise on the basis of a draw. Sure. And the arrangement comes and says that the NCA will choose them from a list of judges, that is, as a menu. "I want to see him, I don't want him, I don't want him." In our view, the same problems will be created. The NCA or anyone who chooses who will judge me? Is this the case for any Greek citizen? To choose which judge to judge him? And the NCA will choose. He will say 'I want this judge to judge my cases and not this judge'. In our view this is serious and we will find it before us. From this point of view, we consider that they are concessions and recommend to the Government and to the Minister, on the basis of the statement made at the last meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs that the House has an arbitrary and self-sufficient function, to pass the bill as it had and not with these amendments. [[MT ……]] [[AG]] We are prepared to vote on the Commission's final draft law. We will not object - and we have said so at the very first moment - to UEFA and FIFA, to judges of any necessary changes. Because here, these days, there is a conversation that says that UEFA and FIFA are the sacred cows! In any case, there must be a constructive debate and dialogue. Who is UEFA and FIFA? Those who are accused of money laundering because they've given the Mundial to Qatar? It's them. Will they check how Greek football should function? So we're gonna have the wolves guard what? The sheep?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Gioka, please, finish it. I've given you three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u59	I shall conclude, Mr President, just one minute. Those accused by the U.S.A., in relation to what has been reported to UEFA, are crumbs. There is money to get the Mundials to Qatar and work Bangladeshese boats with a dollar a day to build the works in Qatar. All this is done with the tolerance of UEFA and FIFA. All of these will be the honorers and judges of what should or should not go to Greek football? We do not accept it. I have other issues to raise, but because time is running out...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u60	Time is over for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u61	I have other issues to raise, I will tell you in the debate on the articles. We want to make it clear that we are voting for these in the bill, because it is not in a negative direction. However, we are asking, even at this time, for the two articles in question concerning judges and the self-employed to vote on the provisions as formulated by the Committee on Moroccan Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Paul Haikalis, Special Buyer of ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will start my speech backwards, invoking the last rule of Article 15, in the verse that we have the most invasive invasion of the word 'internal'. Here's a thing. The point is that the text sent by UEFA has the name ‘it's out’. The name ‘it's out’ has nothing to do with the ‘international’ which is ‘internal’ cases. The information we have is that, if this doesn't change, it won't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u65	To stop Mr. Haikalis' time. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u66	That was the expression in which we reached the Greek text yesterday, in Geneva, with the representatives of UEFA and FIFA. Therefore, since this is what we have told them and gave us their approval - I am supposed to put it in introductory terms, because it can be interpreted as such - and their agreement, we have no reason to distance ourselves from what we have been told and told. Please, please stay in what has been agreed. I declare that no further amendment can be made beyond what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u67	That is exactly what I call it, Minister. The question is what has been agreed. Because we play with words and words we can find them in front of us, because we all know what can happen to diplomacy by changing a word, I tell you that the word 'international' has nothing to do with 'it's out' which...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u68	I've answered you, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u69	Yes, you answered me. As long as there is this commitment on your part and you say that it does not change anything, we are glad to say that if this afternoon we do not have the position of UEFA to see what it says and to explain that this is the agreed text, 'it's out', we cannot vote on Article 15. Why don't we play with the Greek football exit for a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u70	Do what you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u71	Let's be clear. We fully respect certain things, but it cannot be done differently. There are many issues that we can discuss in relation to the self-employed. As they are pressing, the Greek Government must also press, but to a certain extent. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about an issue that has been afflicting sport for years. Violence within and outside lands is a complex problem that the state has to face. [[SO]] [[MT]] Resolving a problem with many parameters and also multi-level effects forces us all - representatives of the state, institutions, unions - to discuss in detail, seeking practical solutions that will regain confidence both in the fans and throughout the sporting world. We are now all aware that previous governments have never tried to deal with the phenomenon of violence in sport nor have they been in the mood. And if I had this, it turned out to be incomplete and thorough. Proof of the chaotic situation that this bill is called upon to face. This government is, however, moving towards a resolution effort, an attempt to respect the law and all this in consultation with the competent European federations of UEFA and FIFA. Sport is under the protection and supreme supervision of the State. That's what the Constitution says in Article 16(9). Have you ever seen protection? Have you ever seen surveillance? Never and nowhere. And in this climate, the melancholy, brought increased violence, melancholy, and the need to evacuate from the psychological violence imposed on society. Today, sport, with the spear's edge of football, has fallen into disgrace and suspicion of stunned games, takeovers of teams and athletes, verbal and racist attacks of fans and actors, unleashing "black" money, as well as total immunity to the administration of detainees in federations, are part of a huge scenery that sepsis and corruption have become its milestone. Today's bill sends a twofold message to both society and sports actors. The scene is changing, and the way is what was missing from the Greek state, the political will. Today, with this bill, society must know that a principle of blocking each federation is being introduced and pressure for more democratic control and for a rational way of operating a system that has now rotted. Rehabilitation of the public about the right feeling now enters a right path. In the bill, football has a dominant role, not because we target football, but because football is targeted on its own. The first article makes it known to all interested parties that the State ignores any political costs and imposes fines and penalties as preventive measures, through the relevant Minister, which will trigger the sporting world to understand that something is changing. Besides, the state does nothing more and nothing less than self-evident. And that's where I think it's the key to the bill's success. Recently, the President of UEFA Mr Platini gave an interview with EPO.GR on issues of Greek football. Let us see what he said to us: "In Greece," he says, "you are too concerned with administrative and, of course, with arbitration issues. The players we forget about football, Mr Platini, are "the players and coaches, not the players and the referees". And we ask: Am I right? Has anyone informed Mr Platini that the PSC administrations are currently accused of setting up criminal organisations and may tomorrow go through the prison door, that there have been facts and referees in illegal transactions, and that the selection of EPC administrations is not done in any democratic way or fully in line with FIFA and UEFA's statutes? Does he know about this? "On the other hand," says Mr Platini, "as far as the state is concerned, there must be strict prison sentences, deprivation of the right to enter the courts and to control the stages for those who enter them. On the subject of violence and security, the Greek Government has a say and a role and we want - and I can say - cooperation." Do you understand why I told you that the government is doing the same thing right now? At last, we'll have cameras and an electronic ticket to the stadiums. And we won't stay in the talk. Any teams that have not installed the necessary control systems until the start of the championship race will be excluded. And there is no 'good, we'll see'. After all, these are measures that have been voted on by the Greek Parliament, but unfortunately there has been no follow-up on the part of the state. This government, however, means what it legislates. When we talk about political will, this will prove to be true. The cameras will record properly and will examine all the moves of attempted violence, as well as everyone will have a nominal ticket proving their entry into the race. In addition, fan clubs are a fact and we will have full identification of members. These are actions that will promote the euphoria and prevent the creation of the parties of the relevant OSCE, not to say the same president. Penalties for offenders are being confirmed, and in addition, regular judges will have a say in what is happening in sport. And they will not be appointed by the state, as some people had invented, but of course it will be done with a definition of the state, and the NCA will have the right to choose, which is something that shows the impartiality of the system - it also depends on the judges, not to be fooled. It will not, however, be the culmination of the specific factor imposed by previous sporting justice. The disciplinary code provides for what infringements are disciplinary misconduct, but no one has so far taken a stand for those who are instigating violence on the field. [[DE]] [[SO]] In fact, in the game of Herodotus - National in Crete, we were dead. Did we see any sentences? How punished was Mr. Pereira, the Olympic coach, who was viewed by many as a moral automation to create an incident in two major races? What if it will happen, with the verbal and racist violence against Olympiacos basketballist from Panathinaikos in basketball derby days ago? The lies, gentlemen, are over. That's it! With regard to statements of property status of arbitrators, arbitrators, arbitrators and arbitrators, they will, of course, be subject to scrutiny. Of course, such initiatives alone will not be carried out in spring, for example, as far as the arbitrators are concerned, there is also cash and other transactions that will not be detected through the control of their assets. Certainly, however, both the control and assessment of arbitrators and the daring issue of the illegal bet - with which I must tell you that we are dealing with the legislation to be passed - require a series of specific measures which will lead to the resolution of sports activities, which I consider to be prerequisite for the abolition of violence within and outside the racing spaces. For the Independent Greeks, it would be best if there were no football teams in SICHEMA. The State should also examine the case of controlling the twenty-four companies involved in the scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this bill does not completely eliminate the phenomena of violence, since the bill does not go into the self-government of the NGO, which wants a great deal of discussion and investigation of the statutes that exist in other countries and whether these are consistent with the Greek statutes. Violence won't just stand on the field. You cannot only enmity the wrath of all these fans who are expressed through a sport that they are supposed to watch if you do not effectively eliminate the problems of violence. That is where I think the state should strongly criticise and invite the SGP and every federation to the negotiating table. If we stick to words today, Minister, and to the pressure exerted by each federation, we also have to call it on the table and exercise any "h" pressure to look at all the issues and see what is happening and how the other federations operate and how the Greek federations operate. The permanent proposal of the Independent Greeks will be a change in the electoral system of the NGO and answers will be given why in other countries, for example in Portugal, while associations are about thirteen, the electors are about ninety-six. In England, which is two hundred associations, the electors are eight hundred. In Germany, too, something similar is happening in other European countries. Respecting this self-interest, we wonder how possible presidents of football associations elected by amateur clubs to run professional football. How is it possible for the election of the president of football associations and board of directors to vote for people who are not even group advisors or even members? How do we talk about self-interest when amateur associations enjoy state subsidies? Let me not tell you that in many associations too - see Trikala EPC - there is only twenty-five unions. There are no unions, it's just the seal, and they vote. I would just like to focus on a point made by Mrs Christophilopoulos in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. And local government has said that it has a self-interest, and I consider this to be very correct, because we have completely misunderstood the concept of a self-employed person. We have had a lot of trouble with the autonomous, perhaps what the previous New Democracy government had voted on, the precedent, rather, pre-emptive. But this precedent - before we are tyranted and tortured and the results are seen today. In local government there is self-government - quite rightly - but there is catalytic state intervention. There too, it grants the OPs. It can lay down the conditions for elections to the local government, and it does not put them in the EAW here. I would entirely agree with the JRC's proposal that we should suddenly see all these issues of the self-employed and that the state should press on with all these situations. Especially for arbitrators we propose to the National Arbitration Committee, which will be responsible for the training of arbitrators, how they are elected arbitrators, how they are presented. These must be signs of pressure. There cannot be today, Minister, an Independent Arbitration Agency to select the arbitrators from their base and to know that the injustice caused by football and every sport from the intervention of arbitration, which is dependent, is the cause of the bad things we see on the court. Again, I would like to point out the dangers that exist, to squeeze out the ejection that some want to do in the stands, in the fields and elsewhere, in fear that tomorrow, once we may find them in front of us, because the ejection will continue off the ground. There's gonna be unregulated stuff, uncontrollable. He won't be able to control it for anything. [[AD]] [[DE]] Mr Platini said he needed will on all sides to solve the problems. We ask for this will from the SGP and any sports federation, that is to say, to sit at the table of understandings with the State. All this composes a puzzle, which needs to be cleared up for the Greek society, as regards the responsibilities of the sports stakeholders. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the Independent Greeks support any action taken to combat violence. That is why we are in favour of creating a more general framework of preventive strategy against phenomena of violence, which is not yet available in the field of sport. In other words, from the cameras and the online ticket, there are issues of education that we need to see in order to train young people in the 'fighting' culture, as well as organisational issues, in which the AOC itself must take initiatives before the competitions are held, in order to prevent problems. Within this bill we would expect the Minister of Education at least to have carried out some articles relating to sporting education that at some point also needs to be a state law, but also to be reflected in books of education. It is in the interests of all of us to use the negative experiences of recent years to put an end to situations which contribute to the perpetuation of the problems of a more general disdain for sport in our country. It is time for all the competent bodies, unions and the state to work together, not only to eliminate the phenomena of violence and appreciation of sports events, but to take such initiatives that will enable young people to deal with sport fearlessly, confidently, about the safety and progress they can achieve through their activity in the sport of choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u72	Thank you too, Mr. Haikalis. You haven't even wasted your time. We close the Special Buyers with our colleague Mrs. Eve Christophilopoulou, Special Buyer from PASOK. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill on sporting violence and its stumbling has begun with high tones. That doesn't please anyone. Mr Minister, you have been more Supplier than Suppliers. I would say that if the whole consultation that you described to us - the debate with Mr Infantino, as took place at the Ministry of Education, it was a very good debate and we said so to all the representatives of the parties we participated there - had taken place before the draft was tabled, we would not reach the point today in plenary today not to have the arrangements that we should vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u74	I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u75	No, they're not signed. So they're informal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u76	I told you earlier that the Minister is gone and will be there shortly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u77	Minister, allow me. You know very well that we have a positive attitude toward the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u78	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, I'm stopping your time. Minister, because there was a debate in the Bureau, however, before the vote on the first reading, probably before the roll-call vote at 16.00, was tabled...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, we are just waiting for Mr Baltas to present the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u80	Yes, but because it is now two hours since you said so, I would point out that, at the beginning of the vote, without being tabled, it will not be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I would therefore point out the procedure here in plenary, but I would also point out the wider one. So, a few weeks ago, when you came out very intense communication and said we'd end with the violence, who wasn't with you? However, it is another thing to do lionisations and - let me express - 'true' and then come to Parliament and say 'I do not have the approval, I do not vote'. We don't know what we're voting for. I would like to say, therefore, that you have missed an opportunity to take the whole bill from the outset into continuous consultation and both inside and outside the country. This is a comment which I would like to make on our side. However, I shall now refer to the substance. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in principle, I would like to highlight two major conclusions that have come out of our debate in the Commission. I have already heard the honourable Members, Mr Haikalis and Mr Giokas, who have spoken from quite different ideological directions. [[MM]] [[AD]] It comes to a great conclusion, that we can agree to the institutions - because you will see that we too are going to vote on them - we can agree on the words, too, that we are all against this phenomenon that consumes Greek sport and poisons not only fun, but it poisons our youth as well. So instead of sport being...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u82	Feast.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u83	...the counterweight - I would say - in many activities where our youth many times resorts to express its anger, instead of sport being a way out, sport manages to be a truly hideous sight. It manages football, the most favorite sport and Greek and worldwide, to lose fans, not wanting people to go to the field. So here we are all in agreement with the question 'What is going on?' You said it yourself, I want to say it in our own way. You mentioned, Minister, too many laws that have so far been passed by the Greek State. You have also referred to the efforts of your predecessor, the State Secretary of the previous government. It's like that. So is it the application? No, ladies and gentlemen. What makes us not to stop the violence, since all these arrangements that we have adopted at times have been in the positive direction and the present government recognises it. We too recognise that the regulations which Mr Kontonis brings are also in the right direction. What is it with us? This is where I want to see you! What is it with us? It is our fault that we cannot really impose on the different surnames and not - because in small groups there are issues - soccer players in fairness. Here I want you, Minister! When the bill is passed, you'll be alone. I told you to the Commission too. You'll be alone. This is where I want you! Do it and we will be there to support and applaud. Because it is not only the institutional tools that we are going to be voting on today and those that exist from previous laws - from '99 onwards, even before - but it is the measures that you can take, for example, through the Ministry of Development, which can control them by the AU. So, over time, there were efforts that somehow were left. Today, it is also apparent from the position of the rapporteurs and Buyers that there is a consensus. I would therefore say that fewer lionisms, not to say 'attack' and retreat. I would also say: consultation in advance with the international federations, discussion within the internal market, institutionalisation. As far as implementation is concerned, these measures are not only enough. Now, I'm going to go a little further into the bill. As far as the administrative sanctions imposed by Article 1 are concerned, we have told you at the outset that we have seen - while other provisions you will see them positively - that this uncontrollableness of the Minister in question - has nothing to do with your face - can impose huge administrative sanctions. You come after the debate in the Commission and you squeeze it. Indeed, you adopted - and thank you for that - and our proposal that the Minister should be able to impose sanctions after the opinion of the Standing Committee on the Management of Violence. We think this is in the positive direction. However, Minister, I would like to point out - of course I agree with you - that the IDA cannot be another independent authority. Don't be. What are these arrangements, however, which will be more likely to guarantee its own impartiality and neutrality, with regard to the respective executive authority, the Minister concerned? I will propose some to you: The open call for candidates to be submitted to the IAEA, the objective and impartial selection procedure, the special statement - and this will apply to all Ministers from you and beyond - of the act of nomination of its members, the protection of the members' term of office by providing that they can be stopped only in serious cases of breach of their duties. I am therefore making a proposal, Minister, how the IAEA Board of Directors can, through its selection procedure, be brought up so as not to tell you - you and the next - that they are organisations. [[KO]] [[2KM]] So there can be such a arrangement that upgrades the role of the CDA, which is not only for the benefit of football, because it is not just football. I wish the violence was just in football. But it will be a tool for all the manifestations of violence that we have seen, as recently, in basketball and, unfortunately, in volleyball, polo and other sports. The other reservation we have on administrative regulations concerns the imposition of sanctions on the media. We want you to see this setup again. The European Court of Human Rights has said that the exercise of restrictions on freedom of expression, even if it is constitutionally permissible - and possibly the regulation you bring to be at the limits of constitutionality - may have the so-called risk of discouragement, in other words, not to prevent freedom of expression in itself, but to discourage it from being present - what is called 'chilling effect' - the means to strike a phenomenon. And because you know and know the focal points, corruption and illegal money that exist, I would like to draw your attention to this particular paragraph of Article 1. We would like you to see it and rethink it, because at least we cannot agree on it. Perhaps that is also a reason why we cannot vote for the article, as you change it, despite our general positive direction. On the issue of disciplinary bodies, I would agree with previous rapporteurs and speakers - I think the Buyer of the Communist Party of Greece has put it - that it is a step backwards from our original agreement, at least as I understood it, and as I thought it was the debate with Mr Infantino. There is a thin line here, the self-government of the NGO, on the one hand, and the possibility of having a proper procedure and not to choose whoever he wants to choose from judges. Of course, the judges do not have the role of judge, but they are in disciplinary proceedings. That is probably why what you have as an arrangement is permitted. I would say, even in 'approximately five', that we see again what is acceptable, as is what we can adopt. I say this in the light of our debate on the articles, Minister. Because it is very important for us not to have purely regular judges. But let's see this list, see how the list is to be drawn up. I heard you say that it will be drawn up by the D.A. But I want to see the writing. There's a question there. We are generally positive about this, but we had a reservation. As far as cameras and electronic tickets are concerned, I think that they are also further improving the existing regulation, which had not been implemented. Let us see, Minister, that we implement what we are going to vote on. And to see that it's a real tool to prevent violence. We are also positive in the procedures by which further stricter criminal regulations are introduced. This is another point of what we have been discussing and problematic about. The Greek legislator already had a very strict criminal arsenal by the sporting prosecutor. But what about the application? You're swinging your head, but that's the way it is! The regulations that you are bringing and which are another tightening up are positive and I repeat that we will vote on them. The thing is after. So it wants implementation, it wants criminal prosecutions to be carried out, to be controlled, and not just by you, and not by the Ministry of Development, but also by the Ministry of Development. At this point, I would even suggest that you hold a joint meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs and the Committee on Production and Trade, so that the Minister for Development can come along and discuss these issues. [[SS]] [[KO]] Because if we all mean it, ladies and gentlemen, that sport should be placed before their responsibilities throughout the political spectrum. If the political spectrum agrees on how we go from now on, then we will succeed. I do not want to say names in here, we all know - not political names, majestic names and oligarchs, over time. We all know each other in this Chamber. I don't want to say any names, but take the initiative, dare. We encourage you in this direction. If we do not agree, ladies and gentlemen, as we have all agreed before Mr Infantino, there is nothing going on. And you know, I'm sadly saying that on the big subject too. Because the suffering that our country is suffering at the moment is very much to do with the fact that we are not in agreement with the great and important aspects of the economy. Let us at least agree to this spiral of violence in sport. And perhaps, Minister, this case study, which a researcher will make tomorrow, is the beginning of great consensus that the country needs anyway. I say, therefore, that it would be well to discuss the control issues of the OEMs, the OEMs, all public limited companies and with the help of the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance, where it can be involved. Maybe it's time. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Finally, Mr President, and with your tolerance, contrary to what I have done on sport regulations, I would like to finish my report by referring to the provisions on education. And because tomorrow we will be discussing this in the form of an urgent draft law on education, and because what we are seeing is a collapse and a regression everywhere in education, I would like to say that we would agree that there should be dialogue. And, of course, the government has the majority and brings in arrangements that do not need to be agreed unanimously. But what leaves us amazed - Mr Kourakis is not here, I would ask you to pass on it - is the total lack of consultation and dialogue, which we did not just say yesterday, and all the federations called yesterday. Here we have two provisions, ladies and gentlemen. First, the abolition of the Bank. This finds us opposed, not because we did not see any weaknesses in implementation, but because a training tool, which aims to evaluate objectively and with equal opportunities, provides evaluation for students throughout Greece, does not throw it away like this, You try to improve it, you bring other settings and you finally evaluate it and you change it if you have to change it. But so, we're here because they don't want any federations or any of our friends, are we changing it? Or because we have the outcry? The outcry to hear it and bring improvements. Secondly, we totally disagree with the promotion of a student with a lower rating than the High School than it is being promoted from Primary to High School. That's totally absurd. One cannot support it, one has no sense in it. And finally, we cannot "close the eye" again in the so-called occupation movement. At some point we have to leave the childhood disease of some decades back. At some point there must be protests. There can be no protests without conquests, no violence. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the great challenge is to strike violence - and here I agree with Mr Mavrotas - in all its views. Today, we're talking about sport. And we, we've asked a question about bullying. But, as a PASOK Parliamentary Group, we would like more. Instead of asking the government, through this question, to have a broader debate in plenary - if the President of the Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, would like, could turn it into a broader question - then to discuss all the Parliament's wings so that proposals and ideas can be given to the government so that they can see the issue of bullying. It is therefore a question of violence in all its manifestations and of the way to a consensus that Greek sport needs, but of course, above all, this consensus is needed by the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, from a rough calculation of the time I have done here, thirty-three Members have been written and the parliamentary representatives are also here. At first we need about six hours. [[AB]] [[3SS]] This means that, with the interruption that is to take place, all Members will speak at the outset. There is no doubt about that, even if it is necessary to prioritise the vote, as is done, at the beginning of the bill. That, Mr Minister, will have brought the legislative improvements in good time and will have them at least one hour before the vote in their hands. If this has been done in time, it can be done because I see a wider consensus before the roll-call vote at 16.00 p.m., which will take us one hour, it will go 17.00 p.m. Then there will be an interruption half an hour to enter the second session at 17.30 ́, and we will begin with the known procedure. The articles take precedence over the Special Buyers, the Breakfast List and colleagues who want to be registered. If we go that way, I estimate that around 00.00 in the evening the bill will be completed, provided that we have no confrontations - not confrontations - and that all of us have time, and Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. The Minister has to say that he does not intervene. He made his speech. So we start the list of speakers. I read you the first five: Mr.Michalakis from SYRIZA, Mr. Giannakis from the NW, Mr. Graikos from the Golden Dawn, Mrs. Antonakou from Potami, and Mr. Gregorakos from PASOK. Mr. Michalakis is invited to Step for seven minutes. Mr. Michalakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that all these time steps have now been taken so that the football, this sporting game that was born in England at the end of the 19th century, which was a means of socializing and social integration of the working class, has evolved in modern times into a multilingual, competitive, sporting product and spectacle, fully integrated into the dominant structures of capitalism and the global market economy. By definition it is commanded and hierarchy by a global economic and political oligarchy of capital, an economic hierarchy that by nature produces competition, exploitation and ultimately violence. We are talking about modern commercialised football in which the notion of fair play has been fully replaced by the brutal competition of business interests of the OSCE, presidents, channels, newspapers, betting companies and others, with a view to the greatest possible share in the intransigent turnover of billions of euros - legal and illegal - created around it, but also being moved and legitimised through it. This is the reality in which we meet the hideous reality of Greek football, which is a wound to our sport and offend us all. That is why we are concerned about the elimination of the phenomenon of violence, lawlessness and corruption. Of course, the phenomenon of violence in sports areas is not a one-dimensional situation, but it is linked to social conditions, inequality, poverty, unemployment, social insecurity, marginalisation and suffocation which have been implemented so far. Violence is made out of the stadiums and it ejects and is triggered in the stands. Of course, it is also linked to a process of interaction of a number of events, such as the headlines and publications of the fanatical press, which show and encourage criminal acts of private armies to defend the political and economic interests of sports anonymous companies, the climate of mistrust with the factors involved and the decisions of the arbitrators, the non-implementation of the legislative framework, the attitude of the police and the provocative impunity of the moral and natural perpetrators of violence on the ground, which is also the main cause of their perpetuation. In these circumstances violence comes to work as a self-esteeming prophecy that collides, causes and reproduces nationalism, determination, racism, sexism and "maleity" and threatens the life, physical integrity of each and every one of us. [[BM]] [[3AB]] Faced with this grim situation, the new government has chosen to take responsibility and decisive intervention, to break the gap and corruption so as to put an end to the vicious and dangerous cycle of violence. It chooses to protect directly and primarily the sport itself, the game, the spectacle, the great goods such as life, health and physical integrity, but also the country's international image. To restore the sense of law, but also to raise issues of democratisation and obligations in the legal order. This draft law is a first step. This is why it is a part of the debate to open up an in-depth debate on sport. It seeks to introduce an integrated and excellent package of measures, to formulate the required legislative framework, which will allow an end to the phenomena of extreme violence in football and in general sport, focusing on essential, the fight against the phenomenon of indiscriminateness and the factors that lead them to their actions and omissions in sports violence in and out of the gaming space, stigmatizing sport and completely devoting to the eyes of fans and society popular sports, such as football. This bill, combined with the previous Act by the Minister responsible for direct legislative intervention to introduce the mere proportional as a permanent electoral system into all sports actors and the NPV, is coming to upset the ponding waters of opacity, corruption and interlocutory in Greek football. Of course, the problems are not only solved by the legislative provision. But I am convinced that the new government will continue on the path it has already taken: the immediate implementation and implementation of the pledged ones. In conclusion, I would like to point out that it is also a question of taking an initiative for a comprehensive legislative framework, which will lay the ground for a different policy on Greek sport, freeing it from speculative views, political and ideological interests, from commercialisation and professionalisation. And it will lay down the conditions for sport to be regained, to be a collective expression and a good spectacle for both fans and families, to become a useful means of socialisation and a healthy culture of promoting good physical and mental health, so that we can defend, promote and ensure sport as a social good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u86	Thank you too, Mr. Michalakis. You were right in your time. Mr. Giannakis will come to Stepma. And until my colleague goes up from New Democracy, Mr Kontonis, it would be very useful at some point, before we close this morning's sitting or starts this afternoon - I am glad to see that in your bill there are only four amendments, one ministerial and three parliamentary committees, two of which are time-consuming and one time-consuming - if you could tell us what you are accepting, so that we can also speak about the amendments and get time. And I hope no one else comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u87	As soon as my colleague is done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to say from the outset that Greece has very good days and excellent performances in sport. It's one of the most successful sports states in the world. Which one of us can forget our National in Lisbon in 2004, the National Basketball in 1987, the Charities goal in 2006, Patulidou, Dimas, Kenteri, my compatriot, Athanasia Jomeleka and so many others, men and women? Thousands of children throughout the country are sported daily in our sports spaces and thousands of parents support them. But also on an organisational level, it is good to remember that we are the smallest country that has ever organised the Olympic Games, and indeed, safely and confidently. [[RG]] [[BM]] This is the bright side of Greek sport. The other, the gray and the dark, we are talking here today. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion comes under the willful title: 'Urgent measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions'. And I wonder: if that is the objective, if the objective was to tackle violence in sports spaces and particularly in football, would anyone say no? Which of us would not vote for a law that would ensure security in the field, which would again give Greek families the opportunity to participate and enjoy their favorite sport? Who wouldn't want to refill the stadiums? If that's not the case, it's because football is mostly, but basketball is also being plagued by violence and corruption. It is characteristic that in the important struggles of the large groups, not even outside the stadium, families cannot go through, although half the Police Directorate of Attica or Thessaloniki is being recruited. So there is a serious problem and it needs to be addressed immediately. Pressure daily life, youth unemployment, and in particular the economic crisis, the lack of education, alcoholism, the use of drugs, are the main reasons for reacting and escalating violence. The state doubtless has a responsibility to impose legality and regularity in the field of sport and especially football, but also basketball in the first phase, because there are signs of violence in other team sports, such as the handball. Ladies and gentlemen, these major social problems require consensus, universal support and a joint effort to deal with them. The subject of violence in the stadiums tried to deal with it almost all the previous Ministers for Sports - and Mr Lianis and Mr Floridis and Mrs Petralia and Mr Orphanos and Mr Andrianos recently, with a bill on the basis of exhaustive consultation, which could not be voted on as a result of early elections. So we can only support any attempt at cleansing that is being attempted. I'll stop on two, three issues of the bill that I think should be taken care of. The question of seriousness to me is the imperial powers and superpowers that the Minister takes, by imposing fines of up to EUR 25 million, without even clarifying the escalation of administrative penalties. And if, as it turns out, the Standing Committee on Violence is to be consulted, we all know how the administrative boards of these bodies are made up and what the mechanisms for highlighting them are. We are not surprised, however, by this practice. Wasn't the same at the ERT? The Minister who nominates himself and the board of directors. With the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, we are beginning to get used to this practice of the strictly controlled political environment, everywhere with the overconcentration of responsibilities by the ministers. I therefore believe that penalties should be imposed by an institution, which will have the necessary guarantees of independence. A second issue is the issue of the sporting press. We'll have to tell the athletic guy from the fanatic press and sports journalism. It is no coincidence that they are opposed to Article 1, paragraph 5, both the Pan-Hellenic Sports Association and the WTO, but also the ESA, which rightly consider that there is a restriction on freedom of the press and the expression of speech. There is no doubt that there is a problem with passive journalism and especially with fanatics, not even by journalists, but by team fans and leading to fanaticism and thus to violence. I fully agree with the introduction of an electronic ticket and the installation of a tourniquet. But we need to see the reasons that have not been implemented, although the political will has been a long time ago. The Greek people have paid for them from earlier, and even with 14 million euros, and possibly their software will prove to be outdated and disgraceful today. What makes you optimistic that this bill will be implemented? [[PM]] [[RG]] I would like to refer to the role of the police here. Operationally, it has been a long way to deal with violence on the ground and has played a significant deterrent role. I think it would also be useful to involve the Prosecutor of Electronic Crime in this great operational effort, which he is doing, in order to ensure that there is more effective detection of infringibility. I will highlight your intention to have some kind of consensus and confrontation with the NCA so that we don't get into adventures. We're hearing about Grexit in general right now. Don't even happen in sports events. Not that there are no problems. It is no coincidence that football players are now referred to justice and going into Hope. But let's not lose the forest by looking at the tree. I believe that it will be wise and reasonable to bridle different views. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of violence is now happening everywhere. It is not only a symptom of modern fields, large urban centres and professional groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u90	You'll have it, but please get it over with so everyone can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Violence now exists in the alanna where children are played, violence exists even in the student struggles, violence also exists on the ground floors of amateur football. The fanatic violence and fanaticism even brought deaths. It is up to us to help all of us to eliminate it. It is mainly a matter of education and action is needed in this respect. Show the importance of the euphoria and fair play. Our society in these years of crisis needs and is thirsty for sporting, spiritual and sporting, with a free and friendly spirit. Minister, in Article 15, if you do not withdraw the addition of 'internal affairs', you will have the full responsibility for the sad further results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u92	I would like to inform you that I am withdrawing from the list of speakers. Unofficially, the Minister - and I thank him - informed me of an amendment which justifies three Olympics and world champions. That is why I was on the list of speakers. Then, the eight minutes will be allocated to those who do not keep their time. Mr. Photios Grass from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand that the government is in a confusion, and that seems to be clear first of all from all the five bills that came together. The bill we are debating today is entitled "Taking up violence in sport" and contains articles on education at the beginning. Fortunately, the Minister has listened to our words and finally came a new draft law specifically concerning education. The question, however, is that there is a more general sluggishness in everything and it seems that all this is far from society. Let me remind you of something: we have told the Commission that we think it is a positive move to solve the issue of violence in sport, but the Minister should find a common point of contact with UEFA, even though we stressed the fact that no Greek government should be blackmailed by foreign players. At least according to reports we have seen in previous days and a common point of contact has not been found and the Minister has been blackmailed by foreign players. Result? Zero. Continuingly, I would like to stress that this bill is also generalised and vague, but some major issues are raised here, because we are once again seeing a bill applying collective responsibility to the vote. Something that had actually happened in the case of the Golden Dawn, we now see it happening in the case of the groups. I mean, he's doing something with a fan and he's being punished all the time. [[EP]] [[PM]] Of course, this bill does not contain the punishment of the President, as was done respectively with the Golden Dawn, where the President of the third political force in the country because of the crime of a fan was in prison for eighteen months. However, it contains such things as racist behavior. Who determines what racist behaviors are? And don't tell me about the anti-racist law, because you all know very well in here that it's completely unconstitutional. You wouldn't like it at all if, now that you're counting on this law, another government would come and step on that law and treat you accordingly. Then you wouldn't like it at all. Trust me. We see - and this can be seen, I imagine, easily anyone - an overall effort by the government to create from one client state and, on the other, to punish anyone who is not on their side. And I'm referring to it in the sports bill, because we're watching fans' freckles. With the central database of the fans you suggest, for a hundred and two hundred people who cause problems on each field tens of thousands of fans will be blocked. With what right do you progressive leftists do that? I can't understand it. You're messing with the fans and you think they're sources of violence. If you want to find sources of violence, search the occupations. And you know very well that molotov will also find drugs you'll find everything. But you focus absolutely elsewhere and treat everyone as criminals. I do not disagree that there may be cases - we have also seen reports in the past - who may have found drugs and weapons. I'm not talking about it that the police and the state should stick to the laws. However, we must not treat citizens as potential criminals. At the moment the presumption of innocence is being abolished once again, as was the case with the Members of the Golden Dawn. I believe that enrichment of the sports courts with active judges was a positive move, as was the property statements of the arbitrators. This, of course, has nothing to do with violence on the ground, but with more general resolution. And treating suspicious racing, however, is a good move. I think it is non-functional and impractical. From there on, the issue is that the entire trend of the bill is particularly punishing and strict and shows that the U.S. Secretary or anyone else was his partner, that it has something to do with citizens mainly young. How and with what feeling can you punish people eighteen, twenty, perhaps twenty - five years old, with penalties that will not be suspended and other such things? It's totally unacceptable! I think, while listening to the KKE's positions on committees, that eventually SYRIZA is a more Stalinist of the KKE now. That is what I understand, since he wants to punish citizens all the time. We are, of course, condemning the violence from wherever it comes. That is why we are also against this bill, which is violent against the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. Mrs Stavroula Antonakou, an Olympic colleague from 'The Potami', has the floor. Were you playing in the same position as Black?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u95	Sort of.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u96	Sort of. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the decision by the Minister of Sports and Prime Minister to avoid the possibility of a grexit of Greek sport. Those who have done championship, when defeat comes after first disappointment, are glad that it is a provision of wisdom and experience for the next race. So, Minister, I will not say that you have been defeated by changes in the bill, but that you have become wiser and more ready for your future as State Secretary for Sports. And I say it 'lost', because it has become so big a pretext on your part, insisting on issues that have been mentioned for some time by the international federations, but also by the Commission, that issues of purely self-help and autonomy, not only in football, but in all sports, cannot be accepted. [[A M ……]] [[EP]] In your committee, we have pointed out all former athletes, independent of the party, that for the purpose of organising all sports championships, whether professional or amateur, the competent federations are responsible. This principle is defended by the international treaty under which the International Olympic Committee and all subordinate sports federations operate. We have pointed this out to you to the Commission and to the majority of them the proposals have been accepted. But did we have to come as a country by the last minute to negotiate? Perhaps the negotiations and consultations you made until yesterday had been better done if you did not bring us the draft law as an emergency. Minister, you brought us a draft law, which, as his title says, combats violence in the courts. We are all with you in the fight against violence. We have shown that to you in practice, and we will show it to you in the future. We are with you on the subject of the online ticket and on the system of electronic surveillance of sports facilities. We are with you in every article that puts an end to the subject of violence. I will speak to you as a former pole athlete, a not so popular sport, like football, but very successful. As the Olympics, world champion and champion of Europe and serving the sporting sector eighteen years, I can assure you that violence in the field is not just a sporting phenomenon. It's a deep social. When the organized state fails to offer the groupings that young people need, then it is easier for young people to search for this grouping lacking in group infractionality. That's why we've got violence in the stadiums, in the schools, in the universities. This is clearly a question of education, an education which you have been dealing with so far and without genuine consultation of the parliamentary groups and the relevant bodies. A country's education is sports education, social education and even political education. Minister, after the vote on the bill, I immediately expect to discuss the deeper problems of Greek amateur sport, which is one of its most difficult times. We all have to stand responsibly next to the cell of Greek sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u98	Mrs Antonaku, thank you for saving time too. Mr Leonidas Gregorakos has the floor. Until Mr. Gregorakos comes to Stepma, I will announce the next five colleagues to make sure he's in the Chamber, although from what I see he's already here. It is Mrs Eleni Aylonitou from SYRIZA, Mr Evangelos Diamantopoulos from SYRIZA, Mr Petros Constantineas from SYRIZA, Mr Yiannis Andrianos from New Democracy and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy, and Mr Christos Boukokouros from New Democracy. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mr. Gregorako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, you would think that a new era will begin for the political things of the country with the new left-wing government. Sadly, though, things are going backwards. Proof that on Friday at the Prime Minister's time the Prime Minister will answer the question by Mr Theodorakis and Mr Nikolaopoulos rather than by Mr Venizelos. Mr Nicolopoulos, if I am not deceived, is one of the co-pilots and the role of Parliament, usually by a majority - but it seems that you are also going to violate it - is to respond to opposition rather than co-government. And that will be abolished as a left-wing government, because now simply, the hundred days of this co-government have revealed you: A show without a program. It would be a good hundred days, therefore, for a new left government to take initiatives on the big problems of the country and the economy, showing a freshness, a dynamism, innovation. And we would welcome it. But despite seeing young people, we see old ideas. We would like there to be something different that makes rehab from the known pathogens of the past. However, none of these have been seen in the last hundred days. There's something abstracted bills, something to arrange for election commitments and all that. Nothing new! [[MO]] [[A M ……]] We had a demand from you for something new. We couldn't do it. The Greek people gave you a clear order to proceed. Sadly, however, governmental practice and officials are following the ravages. But anything different? The central concern of this government is to ensure the benefit of specific categories of citizens, the first of trade unions and guilders. With a look at the electorate, because we do not know what will happen to us tomorrow with what you are doing, all you care about is satisfying individual demands. Last night was the "voice of the glory" of the House! Sixteen amendments we had! Where were you, Madam President, when you said you were going to be someone else?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u100	Three of them withdrew!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u101	Sixteen amendments. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u102	It was five!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u103	Was it ten? Let's not put on more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u104	Forget about 30 of yours in two days!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u105	The government, therefore, looks at the electorate's election, all it cares about is to satisfy only rugs. And I believe that many of you will not feel well when we tell you, because we are sure that you had another look, a specific restructuring plan for the economy, the administration and the state. In fact, the central objective of all these initiatives with the "partner" is to rehabilitate all those outdated and sterile structures in the administration, the state and the economy, which have been keeping the country in production and development for many decades. That is what all of your initiatives have shown at this time for education, for health, for public broadcasting, for administration and for sport now. I would therefore expect initiatives and interventions aimed at building a new era in politics, a policy that would be more effective, more flexible and more citizen-friendly. That's what people wanted from you. I would expect the introduction of evaluation and performance rules for human resources in order to strengthen productivity. I would also expect the introduction of all those procedures - bring them to see - which would further enhance the transparency, reliability and functioning of the state. I regret, however, to note, as we all see in the House, that the government's pursuits are at the opposite of these expectations, which are the expectations of the majority of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, for seven years we have been experiencing a deep crisis in Greece. All of this is linked to the bad administration in the country's finances. And we see that we have not been able to act as a political system - and it seems that we cannot now either - to meet the new needs and demands of our times and of the world. We cannot be useful and effective, staying enslaved to the complacies and ideas of the past. All the political forces are faced with the great challenge of adapting to the new economic environment and the country's harmonisation with the Community institutions, with the country's vital modernization, the administration, the economy and sport. We all have to agree on this: Greece can go forward. We're good with you. We want this government to succeed. We're going to make a good deal of criticism for you. We want you to succeed, because if you fail, the country will fail. We're with you, but we can't do this on all your terrain. The attitude of the authorities toward those who are violent on the stadium must be endless. Most critical comments are made by team administrations, as well as by sports newspapers. Minister, you have our support for every measure that moves towards tackling the violence and resolution of Greek sport. However, the treatment of violence cannot be a pretext for concentrating overpowering on the person of the Minister concerned. Today it's you, tomorrow it could be someone else. Democratic citizens are and we know what is going on in this country. For us it is unnecessarily necessary to enforce legality in sport. At the same time, however, there is also a need for safeguards which will allow for fair and proportionate treatment of all of them. I know you're trying. I'm not a bad guy in front of you, and I want you to succeed. It has this bill positively, but we must be more careful. We will support what is positive and tell you that PASOK will propose to upgrade the role and strengthen the independence of the collective bodies responsible for supervising professional sport, preventing and suppressing the phenomena of violence and imposing disciplinary penalties when necessary. [[FT]] [[MO]] But you should understand that the SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues cannot be modernised and reorganised by reforms of state-of-the-art logic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Reforms are not only a matter of political choice, but also of protecting our democracy and of surviving all of us. You will streamline football and restore order, satisfying your appetite for state and superpower. And with the policeman and the police officer, we cannot be, ladies and gentlemen. So we, because we believe that the populism of this government must be stopped because we do not want to witness everyday actions, legislation and initiatives that expose mold, outdated stateism and the past, we will be in what is innovative you bring together. But what has populism and satisfaction of personal desires, resentments, etc., we will be against you. Finally, I would like to say this: in every step forward you are moving forward, you will find us together. Unfortunately, however, you have to expel some ideas so that you can quickly get into the time and place of realism, in the era of reality, so that Greece too can overcome its dead ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u106	The State Secretary, Mr Quik, has asked for the floor for a short speech. Minister, I would like to ask you, because I have announced the fivefold, at least to the only lady of the five, who is first by coincidence, Mrs Aylonitos, to give her the floor for seven minutes and to make your speech immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u107	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u108	Mrs Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the draft law 'Environmental measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions', which has the peculiarity of starting with the following self-evident phrase: 'Every natural or legal person involved in sport, like any sporting body, must take all possible steps to prevent and prevent violence in the field of sport, in and out of sports spaces.' So, ladies and gentlemen, do we need to legislate on this self-evident thing? Is it not enough for the Criminal Code that goes everywhere, even in sports spaces? Unfortunately, it seems in practice that this is not enough. Violence on the grounds of sport, with the cover and pretext of sport, the violence that appears as a fanatic, is indeed a separate chapter and needs to be treated somewhat separately. The problem is complex, because violence in sport has three different sources. These are three different phenomena, but with a single person. The background to fanatic violence is the fact that football is offered as an area of spontaneous evacuation of social tensions, but they can also take a structured form by self-organizing fans in clubs and links. So the stadium becomes a privileged area for the violent evacuation of young, mostly adolescent and post - age men, who think they really do something heroic when they fight. This is the first problem, which is, first and foremost, social and, secondly, police interest. This social phenomenon, however, creates an environment in which organised crime can act more easily. Even if fans preserve their clubs, the shape of organized fans can be used consciously by gangs to cover up their criminal activity. This is the second problem, which is mainly of police interest. In this situation a third player enters Greece, when some administrations of PAE and some sports players, who tend to keep the Greek football championship dialect, choose to use all of them to serve their own financial, basically, interests. [[AG]] [[FT]] Here the problem is now escaping from the social and police dimension and taking a political dimension, since football has actually been a state in a state. Only if there is a strong political will - and the Government, ladies and gentlemen - has shown these days that it really has this will - can legality be imposed in the field of football with the introduction of improper terms of operation of the championship. If this is resolved, social problems will be solved by social services and police problems will be resolved by both police and judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill aims precisely at this third tentacle of championship, sport violence, the organized para-state of football. In fact, today's bill only contains some urgent measures to address the problem. He wants to give the State some legal means for directly manipulating the worst events of fanatic violence, and he will shortly follow a bill that will finally give us, with the help of all of us, an impeccable football championship. It is characteristic that today's bill gives the possibility of imposing administrative penalties on those who have an administrative relationship with sport, namely those who have sport recognition by the General Secretariat of Sports. An effort is still being made to control organised fans on the stadium, with the introduction of a nominal electronic ticket. That means you're going to take a ticket to the court, just like you're making a ticket to the plane, by name and ID. The bill puts the finger on the type of suns, requiring sporting justice to be true justice, staffed by regular judges and touching the predatory wound of sports betting. Because some may think or pretend to be fighting, supposedly, for the colors of their team's shirt, but from behind others are making millions of money out of the set matches. So, from now on, the statements of property status of arbitrators, assistants and race observers will be made available to the Minister responsible for sport. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being asked: 'UEFA and FIFA what do they say about all this? Will they allow them or will they exclude us from international organizations?' I can reveal exactly what UEFA says and what FIFA says. They're telling us exactly what NYPD tells them to ask. Tell them exactly what they want. Unless, of course, the NCA manages to exhaust even their own tolerance. Thus, economic factors behind the NRA may play their big card: "Take us all the grievances so we don't self-destruct." But they are big businessmen who economically exploit the privilege of representing Greek football abroad. Is there any one of you here who thinks that those who do anything for their financial interests will decide on their own to eliminate the value of their group's shares? Let these gentlemen know that we'll be in constant war with them until we win them. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that this government really wants to fight violence and lawlessness in sport for the sake of youth, but also for the sake of sport itself, which all citizens have the right to enjoy in safety and protection and the lawfulness of compliance with regulations. Here, then, be a glorious field for the masters of the counterpopulation! Please help in a real effort in the common interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u110	The amendments to which the Minister referred in his prototype have been referred. I give him the floor for a minute, because he has to announce that he is tabling them, initialling them, illustrating them and distributing them to you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u111	I won't need a minute, Mr. President. I simply say that legal interventions on the bill have been signed by the co-legislative ministers and submitted. It is what I have mentioned in my speech in many. I put them in the Minutes to be distributed to colleagues and representatives of the parties so that they can have complete and complete information.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u112	I see Mr. Quick isn't here, so we're continuing with Mr. Diamandopoulos. Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today a bill which is the core of measures to combat violence. The government is faced with the phenomenon of violence both within the territories and with the institutions whose task is to conduct the games. He took necessary measures with a break of matches and brought a bill, which obviously does not have the ambition of dealing with the whole question of sport, but has specific directions. Violence, as has been said many times at the time when the bill is being discussed, is a social phenomenon. Many social controversies and tensions are brought to the public space and public space is the field. The question, however, is this: is violence the source of the problem and indeed, as is manifested by one part of the fans or is it a culprit of a rotten system? My position - but I think it is mutually acceptable - is the second part. In a historical retrogression on Greek stadiums, particularly football, we see that violence begins and is part of the professionalisation and industry of sport, from the 1980s onwards. I am not against professionalisation with regard to the rights of athletes, but with regard to the conversion of sports clubs into PAE and everything that followed up to this day, where we have now come to speak of a criminal organization within the Greek football club, in the context of the autonomous and not self-self-interested. Previous leaderships of cowards, conservatives all they did was target fans, define them as the main problem and legislate draconian measures. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mrs Christophilopoulou, excuse me very much. Because I'm not speaking from a written text, there's a concentration problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u114	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u115	It's not personal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u116	...but it's not customary...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u117	We must respect the wishes of the speaker. Keep going, Mr. Diamantopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u118	As I said, previous leaders have moved in this context and we have not seen a result, because dragon laws have not benefited from anything since antiquity. What benefits is exhaustive discussion, a process of osmosis in a social phenomenon, an Olisthic approach. The status of Greek football is rotten and corrupt. There is a circuit that part of it is a part of the players, football players, referees, fans, public officials, who are often assisted by night circuits to enforce their own law. For the first time, the government realises that the problem is mainly this framework of autonomy in Greek football. Here I congratulate the Minister for his persistence and the debate, he has come to transform this into cooperation with international players involved in football, which, of course, we cannot call them irresponsible. There are little phenomena within these circles that have worked corrosively and against what they claim to do, namely the healthy exercise of this sport. So maybe we should suspect why, while they were not sure, they left the unconscious in Greek football. However, we must discuss with international bodies, and we believe that there must also be a process of self-clearing within them. [[SO]] [[MT]] It is also very positive that you have made your speech with regard to ordinary judges. It is no coincidence that most of the incidents within the lands had the cause or cause of injustice, a specific and expanded injustice in Greek football, that is to say, that they will always be the powerful - and these mighty - in the unavoidable and always the rest of them to behave, trying to pull the cart out of the mud and make the scapegoats scapegoats. But, Minister, as I have said, the logic behind previous governments brings us concrete results. This bill adopts some measures - let me say - which have failed. The electronic ticket - which I insist here, I insist, is a way of pressing on the tax evasion and tax evasion of the OSCE clearly - does not have a great deal of success. In our next country, Turkey, there is a decrease of over 60% in the entry of fans to category I and II where the online ticket was introduced. Also, the tightening up of penalties, as I have said, does it not lead anywhere, in what respect? The Orphanu law, which was so hard and had banned the suspension of sentences, did not have any effect on the fight against violence and field incidents. The cameras I consider - after this rageous and scandalous that we faced with "ATHENA 2004" and what happened with the cameras - to have provided little in front of the costs they had incurred and charged to the Greek people. Another must be the culture and procedure by which we are going to discuss with everyone, so that at a point in time we can put everyone in their responsibilities, so that we can achieve the desired result. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to talk to friends' clubs, and I'm going to hang up with this. What anyone can understand is that in recent years - what has been expressed by journalists, politicians, fans and fans - is that the biggest problem is that the few-governed, who participated and rampant Greek football, created armies. Now, through the friends' club, which should be actually licensed by the very Oligar PDU, to get tickets, do we make the ties more powerful to manipulate all of them according to the desires and the tricks? These are questions that are reflected in me. Of course we support the bill. It's in the right direction. I am at your disposal, Minister, because, because of my concern with the subject, I also know European practices and the direction of UEFA towards the people's foundation unions, but also the involvement of fans and fans - not all of them themselves, there are links and clubs with social work - to achieve the desired result. I think - and I take a risk - that what I mentioned in the second part of my speech is measures that have failed and will not succeed, despite your positive approach and your option to do better. The dialogue with everyone needs to be opened. I close this and it is really the last, Mr President. He said: "I will also discuss a part of the society with which I am ideologically opposed to its practices, but I will come to speak with them to solve the problem". So there has to be a conversation with the doors, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Diamantopoulou. Mr. Peter Constantine to come to Step. And by the time it came, Mr Diamandopoulos' reminder of the peculiarity, which Mr Orphanus really established, was right - if I remember well from the articles of the time, he had brought very positive results and a pity that was abolished by another Minister of the same government. You have the floor, Mr Constantinea.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech with a bitter statement. Unfortunately, until now in the public debate on court violence, it has been forgotten that we have only mourned a dead fellow citizen on a football field last November. Today, the only thing that concerns some is how to survive an uncontrolled and totalitarian system of power in football. With this draft law, however, for the first time the state assumes responsibility and demands an issue with many factors, an issue that goes beyond the field of sport. In our view, Mr President, sport is a social asset, which some people have forgotten at the moment. But we don't stick to words. We are systematically working on this issue. Our choice is the act. At the moment we are doing an act that others wanted, but they did not. In our analysis, all the governments from Transmigration so far used sporting law only as a tool for political enforcement and not to benefit society from the benefits of a well-organised system of exercise and sport. On the occasion of the great sporting events undertaken by our country, with the top of the 2004 Olympiad, a system was created in which the hardest form of exploitation was dominated for many years. What do I mean by that? Societies of the market have been inspired by society, the belief that the driving force for the development of sport is private initiative, which can gain asynchronously and without rules. This is our main conclusion on what we are saying right now. No one today believes that by attempting, persevering and focusing on sports ideals it will even be able to survive in the space. That is why those who are remarkable sometimes appear very soon to think and depart. I would refer you to statements by Presidents of large public limited companies who have recently left football for what is happening. In particular, for the multitude of football, the King of Sports, the EUR 25 million of Champions League's participation are the only objective, in whose name any illegality is allowed. The victory of the football company by any means, fair or unfair, today is the model that lives in the consciences of fans, organizes fan armies and is ultimately an excuse for all kinds of violent events. The logic of the jungle is dominated and dispersed by football in basketball, handball and all sports. Even events are recorded in adolescents and youths’ championships, even in young children. The treatment of football violence therefore becomes a key factor in the resurrection of Greek sport. In this reality, the state must intervene. He's doing it now. Its essential intervention is now to implement what the constitutional legitimacy and popular sovereignty have entrusted it, which the previous governments have not done, just to remain in the words. The draft law we are debating today is a first step towards bringing the state to an end to immunity. It is faced with emergencies and it is not the sporting law that all Members want in. We'll be waiting in June and we'll talk about it all. It is a first step in a framework law on sport. Ladies and gentlemen, will you contribute to the resolution of football, or will you remain only in words? However, in the draft law which we are debating today at the same time, the players must also take their responsibilities. They have to decide if they want to have sport in the country. The FYROM itself, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, must recognise the self-evident, that is, it must recognise that it must fully align itself with FIFA and UEFA's statutes and not play the broken phone that every government plays. You've been there, too, Mr. Adriane. He hasn't done it until today. It must set up a Committee on Ethics, it must set up a College of Inspectors, it must implement directly the international directives on the fight against scheduled fights. The main thing that exists at the moment is that it has not been harmonized with one - for me, a key issue - in its regulation. [[AD]] [[3DE]] He has not adopted the Code of Conduct and not the code of the investigation offices currently held by the U.S.A. and we see it every day on television. Did UEFA Secretary himself have to come in order to temporarily exclude those accused of forming a criminal organization in the football field? It's a question for all of us what we're gonna do, gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I have been on the field for twenty years. I was a lonely rider in the face of corruption, when I was sometime called "writing" and being mocked. I reported things and situations in justice itself with statements rather than in front of television cameras. This must be respected by the whole of our society. Today I think I continue to serve the football area as a Member of the European Parliament. So I convey to you the anguish of every unspeakable fan. I convey the desire for the spring of Greek football, because this is the main sport right now. When soccer is made, they'll make all sports. Immediately involved football violence and creates problems in all sports, as I said before. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, are we willing to meet all this requirement and not to look at our party criteria? Sport unites. We all have to understand that right now. To conclude, I would say that today we are sending a message to the sporting society. Clearly we state that we are determined to build this spring in sport. It's a matter of moral principle to me personally to the people I've served for so many years, and I don't forget them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Constantinea, for your reasonable emotional charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u123	Mr Quick, I will give you the floor for six minutes to make a brief statement, because you are not included in the list of Ministers and the State Secretarys who have given me. But because I know that you've put your back on this bill, please come to the Step with the consent of colleagues. I would like to inform you that immediately after the State Secretary, Mr Andrianos and Mr Jogakas will be speaking. I would also like to inform you that he has asked for the floor and will speak after the two colleagues mentioned above, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis - Avramis. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can tell you that we are not just putting back on the bill, but we are putting back on the Minister who brought this bill, because it brings a bill that really tries to hit violence and its root, because it is naive who believes that violence on the ground is not primarily beginning through the homes dealing with football. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how it is possible for the teams to play in the courts - churches and be 'Peaces' when they play with Champions or Europa League and not know how to end a game, when they play two minor groups, smaller groups, smaller groups, even the second category, and not the first category of the major professional groups. I will combine it and I will agree with the spokesman of the JRC and with the IMPLEMENTATION, as his role plays. I will combine it with the fact that in general violence is on an outbreak in many of our daily activities. But on the other hand, we cannot stay abducted. Of course, they are measures which do not apply to all fields. There are cameras and online tickets in Karajskaki. I ask this: are there other fields such as, for example, the region? Oh, no. And because I have watched a match - I see my friend Zabek here - the games that are made, for example, at the Pigadia of Xanthi or the Panthrakikos games in Komotini are made under an exemplary fantasy class. For me personally, a model of team and country behavior is the Panatelic in the region. [[MM]] [[AD]] I ask all of you, though: Can this misery continue without interfering with anyone being an agent or a football federation be catastrophic by fan platforms? Mothers! One time only one referee had the guts to stop the match because they were calling the mother. Mia! He finally finished it for the rest of the two minutes. Nobody's talking. Nobody listens to anything. And let me tell you something that bothers me personally: the falsification of the National Anthem by followers of specific bells. The National Anthem is a National Anthem! No one has the right to falsify him, to football him. As far as the media is concerned, I would be the last person to impose censorship on a job that I served forty-five years. But since I have done too many years of sporting editor, I happened to be a sports editor in seasons where there was the "Light of Sports" of Thodros Nikolaidis, which still exists as a newspaper, and the "Sport Echo" of the late Athanasios Sebou. Once the titles of these newspapers were not arsonist titles, vain people to enter the stadiums. So what I'm saying is - regardless of the Minister's proposals - to regulate the Pan-Hellenic Sports Association and the ESA. They must, within the framework of their social role, be able to intervene in internal procedures where they think that titles can actually vain or offend a crowd. The rest is a matter of justice, if there's anything offensive. I remember that he had written something once - who was it? - Spyros Caratzaferis on a newspaper's front page and they chased him off even abroad. And I've never seen anything happen before about the worst titles coming out in the fanatic newspapers. Although I have to admit that in the last few years there has been a recession in this story. There are titles that are actually more enlightened. First of all, I want to tell you that this whole story doesn't end up in losers and losers. I grieve when you make political use of an ethical attitude of the Minister, who brought a bill with the courage of his opinion. Yes, he consulted with FIFA in the time he chose, based on our legislative processes. In a public proposal I had made he took the initiative and all the sportsmen at the meeting with Mr Invindino were invited to take a direct view of what was said. I, too, directly ask whether all that was received that day in the Chamber and which were reflected in the paper sent by Mr Ephinino was kept or not. Yes, they did. And yes, they went through the amendment today. And we now stand on a word, 'cases', 'internal affairs'. Let me remind you that the wording is: 'The Greek Football Federation manages its affairs'. What are her cases? It's her affairs, her home affairs, her home, her home. That's what this is about. And we start playing with words. I'll even respect this word game. I'll respect it. And can I tell you something? I have the impression that the Minister respects the game of words. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I have the impression that the wording is either 'internal' or 'yours' - well 'yours' - it is not going to happen. In a legal text, this wording cannot be inserted - it should be sent to UEFA within the day and we should be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u125	He ringed the bell and you never heard of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u126	(Secretary to the Prime Minister): I say that the text, as ultimately proposed, should be sent to UEFA - it is a proposal that I have made and discussed - to get the final answer, even though, as the Minister reassured, in Geneva the day before the meeting, its 'cases' agreed to be formulated in the Greek text as 'internal'. In any case, I tell you that I do not hear that. Let's wait for them in writing. Furthermore, the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks was put on the subject and you understand that since the Independent Greeks were placed, I cannot from the Step of the House to say anything different. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] [[KO]] [[3KM]] But I have to defend the legitimate procedure. And she must be. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] But I really look at you in your eyes, and I say, "When I don't get involved in the things in your house, in your house, in your insides, is that not it?" And I'm saying this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u127	Minister, you're short. You've exceeded your time. There's a tolerance, but you should be briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u128	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u129	You don't? Tell us what it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u130	In a family others may interfere in the couple, because they consider it their own home.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u131	What are you talking about? To a legal person under private law? Where did you learn that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u132	Please. Please. And I say this: you think that even with this wording provided by UEFA, any minister can not come back - let Mr. Kontonis go tomorrow may not be Mr. Kontonis and be another 'Contonis', it may be Mrs Karamanlis who would like to intervene - who would like to speak and say 'Excuse me very much, but it is not your case'. Are we gonna play with whether it's yours, if it's yours, if it's yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u133	If it's an unnecessary word to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u134	And I say that, many times in case-law, unnecessary is never superfluous. However, I repeat as the UEFA procedure has so far been initiated with the agreement of UEFA on all these issues - which, as you have seen, the Minister has followed them with an absolute ethics and has not done anything different - so now. And I think it will move in that direction, that's where it goes. I'm coming to something last. Today the headlines of all the newspapers were making an optimism. Grexit became 'GR Enter', became 'No Grexit', it became 'at last we calmed'. If you want to hear my opinion, by the end of the day we will again have a positive sign. We are making a lot of fuss, but I can assure you that the Greek Government wants to make the perfect legality, which also applies to two hundred and five countries. We don't live on another planet. And I am sure that, as has been done so far in good cooperation with UEFA, the Greek Government will proceed to the end, which is, of course, expressed by the Minister. However, I repeat that we Independent Greeks do not put back on the bill, but on the minister to fight violence. So I ask all of you to support him in this effort to combat violence, so that I can go back with my grandchildren on the field and not be intimidated if I'm going back. I'm going, because on the field I'm going, there's a security. But I don't know if I can take my grandchildren on every field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" Hall and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and seven educational attendants from the 1st Eleftherios - Karabineio Municipal School and from the 4th Municipal School of Chios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Andrianos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by pointing out the positive fact that, despite the individual adventures, the bill we are debating today finally came to gather a broad consensus among the political forces represented in the Chamber. I believe that this consensus that we have built can and should be a tangible proof that, in issues such as sport, we have the ability and will if we do not keep our individual differences behind us, at least bring them to the table in the dialogue constructively and in the minds of the composition and effective response of adequate and pressing problems. That was my attitude and will during my recent term of office as the State Secretary for Culture and Sport and I would at least be inconsistent if I changed my attitude and opinion. Of course, as I pointed out, in the debate prior to the relevant Commission, I would prefer that we vote in the same climate of composition and consensus as a bill on all the issues of Greek sport as a whole. So, we would send, among other things, the message that sport is other things. It is above all the day-to-day effort of our athletes and athletes, who are often sported in extremely difficult conditions. They are the athletes and the athletes who make us proud of their discrimination. They are the hundreds of thousands of Greek girls who are struggling throughout the country often thanks to the sacrifices of their parents. [[SS]] [[KO]] They are the values and ideals that we should be inspiring just from this aspect of our sport to bring back to the surface even there, as in the situations that the bill we are discussing is intended to heal. Others often go forth with dark targets, practices and methadones. Even so, with the individual targeting of the bill that we are discussing, its contribution is first positive. And I am very pleased that Minister Kontonis, as he has said - and he has said today - intends to make use of the broader sporting bill that will bring information from the bill that we prepared during my term of office in the Ministry and had passed since the stage of public consultation, but the elections were ahead of us. I also have a moral obligation, once again, to thank this Step and publicly congratulate the well-known lawyers, the people of sport, but also the officials for their seriousness, conscientiousness and labour at that time in that committee. In any case, the aim of all of us must be common, as much as our individual visual angles differ: the modernisation of the institutional framework, the safeguarding of transparency and legitimacy, the development of the social good of sport and its safeguard for all Greeks. In this respect, the draft law we are debating today is indeed about dealing with the existence of pathogens through greater transparency and tightening up the penalties provided for. And indeed, Minister, you are working with honesty and honesty, and this honesty and honesty and the effort you are all making to recognise it. Of course, voting even of the best law is an essential treaty but not capable of solving the problems. We therefore need the will to implement the envisaged and to build a broad social alliance for sport without violence and without shadows. And, of course, we need the decisive emphasis of the State's will to apply legality to every aspect of public life. In the end, we should not deal with phenomena such as the repetition of the self-government of certain sports federations separately from the wider request for the recognition of enclosures within the Greek society where the law will be applied partially and simply. It is therefore an obligation for the law to be universally applicable to all and all the circumstances. I would also like to dwell here on something that has been very emphatically said in the process of hearing representatives of operators, that the problem arises whenever the State attempts to determine the content of the self-employed is due solely to the choice of some to refer to supranational sports bodies at the outset. And yet, the delimitation of the self-employed, the shielding of legality and transparency is a prerequisite for the further development of professional sport in Greece, and it is a case that the players of Greek sport should first seek to upgrade the good they themselves are serving. In any case, the social alliance for Greek sport exists and is widespread. So it is up to us, and it is our duty to use it, to provide the best we can in the social good of sport. I am very pleased that this social alliance is reflected in the Chamber today, and I hope that this optimistic message will continue in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Andriano. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u139	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to welcome the 1st Elementary School of Zakynthos - it was my own school - which is following the work of this House today. Be good and have progress and the children and teachers who are with them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is the sixth after three months of governance of SYRIZA and ANEL. Three months lost in the negotiations, for which we are very much aware, since no one is actually telling us about it. Three months when the economy is crumbling, the market is frozen, we are not talking about reforms, nor of course about growth, but about recession, deficits, new budgetary gaps, that is, new measures. [[AB]] [[4SS]] But where is all this due? But, of course, the government's immorality. And citizens continue to receive the government's communication storm in its attempt to convince us that they want to prevent new measures. The government appears with two persons: the one who fights with the bad and led to immorality and the one that goes almost unnoticed for some reason. However, the same happens at times and with officials from the government and the parliamentary group, where they say one day that a referendum or election can take place and the other day, with a 180-degree turn, to exclude any such possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell us at last your plan to get out of the crisis, tell us what you are going to do and how you can immediately govern. But let us now come to the draft law on combating violence in sport. This is another new plan which, until it came to plenary, went through forty waves. We have once again become a target of international football associations. Even now, Minister, there is confusion as to what applies to the self-employed. We are clearly interested in the participation of national and collective groups in international events. We're with you for all the good you're trying to do. Even from the position of Minister Quik before, there is an ambiguity about what will ultimately happen as regards the position that the NCA is managing its internal affairs. There's the confusion here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u143	Where does it come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u144	We don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u145	Because I don't know. Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u146	Even Mr. Quick said that by night he'd be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u147	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u148	The Special Buyer of the Independent Greeks also left the possibility of not complying with the agreement you made. Mr. Chaikilis said so. Well, make it clear. We support this effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u149	Here's Mr. Chalis, and he can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u150	Here it is. We have no objection to seeing what is really happening. We wholeheartedly support this effort, as the previous speakers have said, but it is enough to have a clear position. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another issue - although I am not a constitutionalist - as far as the choice of judges is concerned, whether Marios Ice will allow it from the list to be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u151	We're looking into this and until the meeting is over, we'll have solved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u152	All right, make that clear, too. It's an important issue, which you see there are gaps. We are here to help and they need to clear up some issues so that there is no sloppyness in this process. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the tripartite aspect on which we must move on to the issue of violence in sport is based on prevention, controls and education. Prevention and education complement each other as the phenomenon of violence starts from young ages within and outside organised associations and groups. As far as controls within the territory are concerned, sports clubs should be responsible and they should be subject to the consequences of possible omissions. The State is responsible for legislating and acting supportively in the work of the AEA and the AEA. That is why the Greek police can only intervene in cases of escalating violence. It cannot be continuously on and off the ground. On this matter I will call on the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Panoussis, when three weeks after taking up his duties, commenting on episodes that had taken place during and after a football match in the Super League, referring to the Minister, he said that "I have said as scientist that we do not need the police in the courts, but it is an obligation for Super League, the SGU and other bodies."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u153	The law foresaw...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u154	The law, of course. We should change him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u155	...that you've voted for. Oh, you want to change him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u156	Of course, it's an opportunity. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Minister, that's why we're here to do something stronger and more modern.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u157	The problem of violence has been exacerbated. So some changes need to be made to this too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u158	So, we have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u159	It's not static.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interrupt, let the speaker continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u161	The big deal, Minister,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u162	Time passes, then the MPs will be pressed, because they will not have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u163	...is to do something as best as possible and move forward. Let's agree. In Great Britain, as you know, measures have been taken for decades and under the responsibility of the groups, land controls are being carried out. The fans through these checks do not escape anonymity within the mob of the field. The main thing, however, is that the penalties applied and applied to all of us: both fans and players. The phenomenon of violence was almost eliminated on the ground, but it was also minimised outside. Here, therefore, education is needed, the cooperation of the State, of sports clubs and of society is needed. It takes a long and continuous effort to play fans and not fans.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, there is no government representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u165	Children can and must learn to be sported by young people, to participate, to learn to win and to lose. Disciplination will help to integrate themselves into the tour of sports thinking and behavior. I will soon come to another issue that concerns and describes Article 5 and provides for fines to be imposed on the Media: ‘In cases of incitement, incitement, encouragement or approval of incidents, racism and violence in general’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I will not disagree on the substance. But I wonder about the limit of encouragement or approval. How does that count? If a journalist characterizes a sporter or sports player to be reduced, it is obvious how it will be judged. Because journalists in one way or another also take their place in the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, as a conclusion, I would like to say that there are laws. It would be enough if the State, sports clubs, justice and sport were to apply to each institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. There was an intervention by a number of Members and it would be useful to have a representative of the government during the speeches. I would also like to stress this point, at the request of the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u167	It will not be 'good' under the Rules of Procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Arvanitis has the floor, if I'm not mistaken. You had contacted Mr. Kaklamanis to give you the floor after ten MPs, didn't you? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u169	No, Mr President, we must stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u170	We have to interrupt until the government arrives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u171	I don't see any ministerial seats, do I? No one's there?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u172	When the government is not here, Members cannot speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u173	The Minister will be here. We have made an appeal from the presidency's Step, what else can I say? You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u174	Take a break.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u175	We interrupt for a minute until someone comes from the government. Here, he's here. Mr. Arvanitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, now the document on legal intervention has just arrived on the draft law. I have not been given the opportunity to check in detail whether the comments made by the Scientific Service of the House, which have been made, have been made on the draft law, namely clarifications, replacements, clarifications, gaps, deletions, replacements of terms or phrases, etc. I think that's what happened. Because the Scientific Council has indeed made appropriate legislative interventions and correcting a rational error. She was curated by the work she did. (PM) [[RG]] I would like to ask you, Minister, that you sent the bill for information - I do not want to say for approval - to UEFA. Yesterday, on the 5th day, we were informed that UEFA sent it back and corrected 14 provisions, and even erased 14 provisions, and by vivid letters UEFA wrote what is legal and what is valid with the provisions of UEFA, FIFA, in general the provisions of the football federations. For the Minutes - for having received much publicity in the press yesterday - I am presenting the article 'News' in which it is described in detail what exactly happened. [[At this point, the Member, Michail Arvanitis - Avramis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I don't know anything: have these UEFA suggestions been applied to the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u177	The last ones, you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u178	The ones who indicated later why they wrote 14.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u179	After the debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u180	After that, yes. Yesterday this happened. Did they attack?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u182	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u183	Do you want me to answer you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u184	Please, no. You told me yes, as far as I can tell.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u185	Some were received, others amended. We had a dialogue on this issue and a consultation, and I think we have come to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u186	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u187	Minister, since Mr Arvanitis has accepted your intervention, you should speak. You need to repeat this so they can be recorded. Mr. Arvanitis, you gave him the right. To repeat what he replied to, to be recorded, because he spoke with a closed mic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u188	Let me tell you, Mr Arvanitis, that it will also be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u189	Do you want me to repeat?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u190	No, what the Minister has already said to you, to repeat it, so that it can also be recorded in the Minutes, because he spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u191	I have no objection but to stop my speaking time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u192	You'll have him next year, don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u194	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u195	Following the debate in the Commission, as we had promised, we sent a translation of the provisions that the Commission had adopted to give UEFA and FIFA its opinion on the wording in its statutes of corresponding provisions and conditions. Comments were made on these three articles. That is why we ourselves went to Geneva and discussed these issues. Some have been accepted, including in the legislative remarks. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would like to make a statement on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the situation in
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u196	I can't believe it, Minister. After intervention yesterday and recommended by the President of UEFA...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u197	No, he's pointing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u198	... 14 corrections, 14 write-offs and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u199	No, no, it's not like that. It's irrelevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Arvanitis, continue, if you like, your speech. The Minister will record your questions and answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u201	I'm telling you it's not like that. The other is the consultation of the international federations, and other is all the legislative interventions, including other provisions of this House, and the issues arising from the same Ministry of Education, that is, the Department of Education, concerning the provisions of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u202	Good. I insisted on that, Minister, because it appears to be inconsistent with the bill that we can no longer speak of a self-sufficient person of the OSH and the other sports professional associations. We shall talk from now on about quasi-equity, because the Minister of Sports is gaining overpower and is in a position at all times, without already specificising what crimes will be of violence, alone, to impose penalties - and indeed extinguishing - which can, in addition to participation, the very existence of the OSCE or other sports trade unions. As far as violence is concerned, I should first of all like to mention not extensively, but very quickly, because our Special Buyer has clearly stated what our position on individual provisions is and on the draft law in full. You know that violence - I said it to the Commission - is produced in the absence of education. They took care of forty years and omissions, but also of minor anti-population, so that the principles, values, ideals, noble visions, can be set aside and, at the moment, youth can only have a consciousness of the straightforward tendencies. [[EP]] [[PM]] And they have become the courtes, whether it is football or basketball, to be a place of ejection of the homogeneous tendencies, in the absence of ideals, values, as I said before, visions. All this has been systematically fought and fought and now systematically. If our education does not form the basis in accordance with the principles, values and in particular with the provision of this paragraph. Article 16, Article 16, we shall have no improvement at all. They're going to keep throwing off their hormone tendencies on all the stadiums. It's a place of expression of the Armenian classes. But I also have to refer to the current critical news. A well-known lawyer for defending the indictees of the Golden Dawn was attacked in his office this morning, which they destroyed, so that this lawyer resigned. It's a tactic of intimidation and it's the fourth case of a lawyer trying to intimidate. And Mr Panoussis comes and tells us that we do not need care, because we are not a target. The Honourable President of Parliament in her speech after taking up her duties spoke of gold pages. He said gold pages of parliamentism would be written. It has not been possible to erase the echoes of her words, which, among other things, said she would take care of diligently - and I would like to believe she had this intention - for the proper functioning of Parliament here and that gold pages will be written. And the echo of her words, in a few hours' time, has not been able to eradicate the fifth position of the Vice-President, whom we are entitled, we have been deprived of by parliament, despite the Constitution and despite the law. Was that the first gold page? More gold pages followed. Which ones? That we cannot exercise parliamentary control. The ministers are sending us back written questions and tell us others 'It is not our responsibility', and others say that 'You cannot have the right to exercise parliamentary control, because this is contrary to constitutional order and constitutional customs'. In the parliamentary order too, a legitimate parliamentary party, which voted for half a million Greeks, has no right to exercise parliamentary control. Some ministers of your government do that. They're forbidden to control us. What do we have here? Is this the democracy that you are dissecting and believe you are exercising? I testify to this as a whole, because I have a body in my hands. [[At this point, the Member, Michail Arvanitis - Avramis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you're following Mr. Kikilia's Tactical Tents and Psychiatric Tactics, who told us he's not answering our questions. We have no right to inform the Greek people of what is going on in the Ministry of Public Order, because you want Mr. Kikilias, Mr. Dendias, but you want it too. What right? The other is waiting to hear what's going on at the Ministry of Public Order, and you're avoiding this. So you're still the same. So, what confidence do we have, although you continue the same policy and tactics in the case of the Golden Dawn, which came to the stand of the defendant despite the Constitution, despite the law and immorally, rather than all moral principles, but also in violation of the parliamentary provisions. Eighteen months left our competitors and another four remain. The presumption of innocence was annulled, everything was observed. It's all about Golden Dawn. I didn't hear anyone say about the river and its achievements. I'll tell you right now. [[Noise from the Wing of the River Parliamentary Group]] Now you'll hear them. Wait, don't interrupt me. You said you'd make a deal. Three months, that's what we've heard of an honest agreement. I don't know if she'll be honest or not honest. I want to believe she'll be honest. [[A M ……]] [[EP]] It's either a deal or a break. You have no other way because people live in uncertainty and insecurity. He doesn't know what he's gonna do and you leave him to uncertainty and insecurity three months. It is not possible to borrow credit to pay the loan. It is inconsistent with the national independence that the Prime Minister has said in the programme statements, not with growth. You can't do that. I'm not speculating or criticising right now. I'm exposing facts. Furthermore, what the Prime Minister said in the election statements did not say in the Programmatics. He failed to say important things, particularly about the FOZ, about the debt audit, which he was saying. He heard it from us, because we were the first to speak and support. A lot, not one, here through this seat, we have said about the auditing of the debt. It is also being systematically attempted - and this is not because it is the most important - population change and disruption of social cohesion. We have seen that a Minister does nothing but have the gradual genocide of the Greeks by changing populations, the disruption of the social cohesion, and no one fully reacts. So what will be the patriotic policy announced by the Prime Minister? That's the question. Is it patriotic politics to exterminate the Greek race? In any case, intellectually, at least, it has suffered enormous blows, because the principles of our culture have been dismantled by a system - I stress it - and you yourself as minors. There is also a systematic war of national conscience. The president of the Party called Potami was proclaimed as a national moderation. What do you mean? He complained and believed that, at least as he declared, the curiosity of a epitaph, namely respect for our sanctuaries and oaths, on Greek territory causes the Turks. In other words, instead, we have to say that if the Muslims in the rest of Greece want to do so, which is the vast majority geographically, but also numerically, to perform a religious ceremony, they should be banned. That is to say, this man, wanting to express his ethnicist feelings, wanting to express his unwillingness, did not understand that he made a mistake at least to the detriment of the Muslims. I mean, Erdogan wouldn't say that, or Ahmet Dabutoglu, or the Consul in Komotini. Today the newspapers are writing headlines for the epitaph of Mr Theodorakis, who has been here nothing but a representative of interlocutory. But it has now become a preacher of national tenderness. The people must also listen to this, especially those who brought him here, in this sacred space, in the area of freedom. It has also been said of government, Minister, of national salvation, but it has not been clear what you mean by national salvation. You didn't tell us to understand. I want to tell you something about our guard. Partially, especially the Golden Dawn, that is, we are not guarded. I said it before about our lawyers. So the Minister says in his document that they have not come - he says - to the competent authorities specific information concerning threats or preparatory actions to commit guilty acts against the Golden Dawn. So I say this in the Minutes and tell you that we have been attacked. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Michael Arvanitis - Avramis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And he had the honour to speak before you in May 2012 was attacked by twenty - five crabs. Didn't the Minister make sure to see that, ask? It goes out to the State Security of Patricia, a lawsuit which was filed on its own initiative against, of course, unknown persons, who know them, but who dare not take off their hoods. They robbed me, destroyed my clothes and injured me. So, is there no evidence of a threat or attack? Where are we? In other words, you will leave us to the mercy of anarchists, unaccompanied by us, our lawyers and everyone, if Mr Panussis continues with his tactic. [[MO]] [[AM]] Mr Kikilias also had the courage to say: "If Chrysayites are afraid to change party." We are not afraid, Mr. Kikilia, we have a Greek soul! We're not afraid of anyone! Here's our home and our home! That is what he said and he is a politician of the Greek Parliament. Change a party. This is the former Minister of Public Order. If that's possible! That is what I have to say and thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr Arvanitis. Parliamentary representatives have been asked for the floor. I propose that we speak first of all to two Members, Mr Bukkoro and Mr Karayannides. We will then enter the circle of the Parliamentary Representatives, with Mr Brutsi, the first, followed by Mr Petrakos, Mrs Liberaki, Mr Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u204	I would also like to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u205	I'd love to, after Mr. Koutsuko. I'm announcing the show, Mr. Nicholas. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to throw the tone down, because I think sport must unite us. But in memory of the bill titles that the government has brought to date, I note that ministers could make careers for ladders into not so serious literature, because we are dealing with the phenomenon of heavy-duty titles with almost zero content. Minister, let me say that, as the humanitarian crisis did not deal with the first bill, as the economy did not reopen with the next bill, I fear that violence in sports spaces will not be eliminated by this bill. This does not, of course, mean ignoring your good intentions. Not at all! However, Minister, violence is a complex phenomenon and has many faces. And sporting violence is neither independent nor disintegrated, much more so at the time when we have an outbreak of domestic violence, we have an outbreak of intra-school violence, bullying, which is a prelude to sports violence in sports spaces, because children after high school and high school go to see their favorite groups. We also have social violence, verbal violence in 'telepaths', but even many times within Parliament. It is therefore a great ambition to say that sporting violence will be dealt with with with a single bill. If that were the case, the previous ones would have done so, Minister. It's the easy way, the easy way. This does not mean that we must remain still, that we must not try and legislate. And you do well to bring in the bill. However, Minister, I wonder when we will also see in Greece the images of the lands of Great Britain, where there is not a single police officer? You have attempted, almost by speculation before, to reply to me "in so doing, the law of your own Governments". On the one hand, Minister, our party is not present and has never been presented as the one and only holders of the truth, which is what your party does, and on the other hand it is not static. The exacerbation of violence is unprecedented. New legislation and new tools are needed to deal with it. Therefore, do not see so negatively the labelling I am presently tabling here and which is this: at no point does your bill make the Football Anonymous Companies co-responsible for maintaining order within sports spaces. This is happening with great success in countries with huge football traditions, such as England and Great Britain in general. We don't have to keep running to discover the wheel. International experience can always be a valuable guide and you ignore it, Minister. [[FT]] [[MO]] Also, your bill - without, I repeat, ignoring your good intentions - does not address the so-called 'therms of violence'. Minister, most fans have not lost their lives on the ground within sports spaces. They've lost their lives outside the sports areas. Haven't you heard anything about fans' deaths, which so many times in recent years have we been occupied? You say that's the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Order. Yes, but co-operation, synergy always works for the benefit of society as a whole. You also say that these are the competences of other ministries. No, Minister. You had to go into exhaustive dialogue. You should have seen the complex phenomenon of violence not as a disintegrated phenomenon within or outside sports spaces with the tragic effects, with the tragedies and the lamentation that follows them unnecessarily. So it is not the phenomenon of sporting violence torn apart. It is one of many facets of violence, for which we are all co-responsible. From there on, Minister, I am very afraid that you have reserved an almost empire role for the Ministry, but also for the Standing Committee on the Confrontation of Violence, whose creation - let us not be fooled - you will have a great deal of control. The introduction of high-level administrative fines, which have been normalized since your discussions with the competent European authorities, is once again a superpower. Then, Minister, UEFA has the power to exclude Greek teams from European events and to expel Greek teams from Greek championships. For the sake of shadow, you would allow me to say, Minister. Because if you have the right to exclude a group from the Greek events, how will this group participate in European events? There is a contradiction at this point. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But as a professional journalist, Minister, I would like to point out that while you are disclaiming your responsibilities for general sporting violence in and out of sports spaces, you are extending the state's long hand to freedom of the press. Minister, I would be beg your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u207	I hear you, I hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u208	I am speaking to you as a professional journalist and I want to inform you that both the PSA, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Remunerated Sportists, and the ESA and the other associations of the country, and the WTO, have disciplinary bodies that operate, Mr Minister, and operate strictly. You ignored them and you say that the state will put fines on media and journalists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u209	Does that mean journalists?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, it says 'in the media'. The same is true, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u211	Why do you say other than others?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u212	Minister, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u213	Does the law say "in journalists"? Come on, let's get yourself together, 'cause I'm listening enough, and I'm not talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Buquoir, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u215	So, as there are associations of journalists...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u216	Can you say to a Member,'short up'? Who are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u217	Does the reporters' law say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u218	You tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u219	It's being kept...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u220	Does the reporters' law say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u221	Is that yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u222	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u223	Does the speaker not have the right to criticise?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u224	He's critical of exercising. But does the law for journalists say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u225	Get out and make your suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u226	Does the law say "in journalists"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u227	And not behave with disrespect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u228	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u229	Does the law say, Mr. Brutsi, for journalists?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u230	Say it, disprove it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u231	What am I supposed to say? You must say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u233	May I ask you to have the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u234	Wait a minute, Mr. Bukowo. Minister, calm down, please. If you want to place yourself, ask for the floor. The Bureau will give you the corresponding time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u235	I'm going to ask why, because I've heard enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Buquoir, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u237	I will finish in two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u238	Not in two minutes. A little less.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u239	In a minute. Minister, the State's hand on freedom of the press is a dangerous matter anyway. And as not all politicians are themselves, not all journalists nor all the media themselves. That's what I want you to agree on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u240	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u241	At least you had to engage in exhaustive dialogue with people who are experienced in the space. [[AG]] [[FT]] From there on - and I close with this - seeing the brief story of this bill, Minister, you started with a full attack - to use a sporting terminology - almost as a bull in the glass shop, then you went to a negotiation, in a debate - and you did well - and you finally seemed to have put a lot of water in your wine and thus avoided Grexit from sports events. I would therefore suggest that you deliver some rapid lessons to the rest of the government in order to avoid the other Grexit, which will be much more painful than any blockade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u242	Mr Minister, you have asked for the floor beforehand. Will you talk about one, two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u243	Not for a minute. I would like to stress that we are having a debate on a draft law. The draft law has specific provisions. We cannot come to the Plenary Assembly of the National Representation and criticise the government for provisions that we imagine have the bill. Let's just sit down and read it. Whoever they want - has shared - let them read it. Is it mentioned anywhere in the bill that fines are being imposed on journalists? If that's possible! And it's reported here by a spokesperson from Officer County this thing? Not only is this not mentioned, but with journalistic associations, we had an exhaustive dialogue. We did not reach an agreement, but that does not mean that we did not exchange views. We had an exhaustive dialogue, but we did not agree. We have, however, taken note of their comments and incorporated them into the draft law. It doesn't mean we have to agree at all times. But don't say things that don't apply, they're not in the bill, and we're criticising it in general to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Buquarre, what personal information are you referring to? There's no staff. The Minister referred to the bill and to some consultation with some bodies. Explainedly intervened. I don't see the staff. And so that we do not waste time, at noon, you know very well that there is a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, for a minute. I think I have the right. A necessary clarification I want to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u247	I'm sorry, Mr. Bucoore. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, I would have finished. I want the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u249	Will you let me talk? Please, Mr. Buquarre! At 16.00 you know very well that there is a roll-call vote. Another Member, Mr Karayannides, will speak, and then we will enter the circle of parliamentary representatives. Based on the twelfth that the Parliamentary Representatives deserve, we'll get over 16:00...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u250	I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u251	... if you and possibly other colleagues here continue to intervene in such a way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u252	A clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u253	There is no question of staff during the Bureau, Mr Buquore. Have a seat, please. Mr Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In order to resolve any misunderstandings and some fantasies, I read the legal interventions: "In cases where such actions or actions take place via television or radio stations, the Minister responsible for sport informs the relevant National Broadcasting Council so that, within the framework of its competences and beyond the other penalties provided for, it can impose the abovementioned fine." Where are the reporters? Where's the pussy? Where's all this? If you want to criticise the bill - and you have to do - make it on the basis of facts. Don't make any criticism on the basis of what you fantasize. And finally, have you seen what's called the fan show on TV? Apart from confronting these programmes as graphics, you should know that they form morals, they form opinions and they form a racist and fanatical entanglement against opponents. That's what he's trying to catch up with and predict the bill. And talk about real data. Secondly, I heard the rapporteur in the morning in New Democracy, and I think I understood something wrong. Why am I saying that? Let me read from the Minutes the report by the rapporteur of the New Democracy at the last, fourth meeting of the Commission what he says: 'We have nothing further to add, Mr President, on the New Democracy side. I believe that yesterday the meeting with the Minister was very constructive. I believe that a golden incision has been found." This morning another New Democracy rapporteur appeared obviously, who refuses what he said at the last meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. That's an explanation. That's not how it works. [[MT ……]] [[AG]] Because we don't have to say some serious things as criticism, because we agree - you agree - to 99% of the things that this bill brings, to make it seem that you are counter-population, you find various windmills and you are trying to fight with these windmills. However, there are no reasons why you were saying other things at the meetings of the standing committees. And you can't contradict. On the one hand, it's a good bill, on the other hand, the Minister's fucking up! On the one hand you were telling us that we are going for grexit - and if this grexit has not been heard today - Greek sport and we must call on the international federations and on the other hand blame the Minister for discussing the international federations. Decide what strategy you will follow, because both cannot be applied. To get to this famous professional football game. There's a thin line that none of you from Certifying Antipolitics wants to see. Along with professional football comes the professional army of "families". What have you been doing in the last thirty years we've been mourning dead in episodes? Nothing. Did you stop this evil all these years that PASOK and you were in government? Did you try not to have dead, not to have death meetings, not to have knots on streets, squares and stadiums? And if you did some work, what did they bring? Nothing, because these things are going on. I'm going to go to something that I personally mind because I live in a provincial town. Mr. Kukoudemos said that we did not ask the athletes of other sports, that the Minister did not invite the athletes to discuss with them and made their own decisions. Mr. Koukodimos, in Drama, the champion of 110 meters of obstacles, Costas Duvalides, is practicing at the National Stadium of Drama. Have you ever seen it? Do you have a picture of the stadiums in the provinces? Do you have a picture of what has been left? Do you have an opinion on the reduction of 12 million in the budget of the General Secretariat of Sports in a pre-Olympic year? Do you have anything to tell us about this, about how money will be distributed to a sport that has been falling apart for the past five years? Do you have anything to say as an excuse for that, why did we get to have sports spaces that can't be licensed at the moment? And this has to be heard here. The General Secretariat of Sports so as not to have the hot potato of the licensed sports facilities, did a very simple thing: it transferred them to the OTAs and has no responsibility. And now the OTAs have undertaken to support these sports facilities with cut-off funding. How's that gonna happen? Can you explain? What have you done all these years and these sports facilities have no licenses? Why did you make the wrong eyes when on one night they were up on provincial grounds, why did each mayor want to be elected next time? Why doesn't the Calatrava roof have a license? Why does Kalatrava have a greenhouse permit? Is that practical government? And you're coming to criticise a government that's been trying to save what it can? Do you know that we have gone from an extension of the operation of sports facilities and are trying at the General Secretariat of Sports to salvage what they can, why would they stop championships and racing activities, why did you leave the perfect chaos in this story? And you come to criticise what we can't do in three months? Maybe you should see your mess? Did you see that you haven't done anything so far and then discuss the bill? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds because it has been mentioned to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Koukodemos, you're a rapporteur. But we have already announced that, immediately after Mr Karayannides, your parliamentary representative will be given the floor. So Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, the history of the future will rightly record this parliamentary term that we are experiencing as a parliamentary period of surprise. Sadly, however, with a negative sign! And I'm explaining. [[SO]] [[MT]] We are in a four-month parliamentary term with a President of Parliament and with the majority of the government constantly reducing parliamentary freedoms and violating the Rules of Procedure, Constitutionality and the provisions of the articles. And what do I mean: Last night we were all witnessing another irregularity, which was about tabling a large number of SYRIZA Members' amendments, which came unnoticed, roughly and without costing - that is unprecedented! - in a Greece that's crumbling right now. And among them, the amendment to the INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS. Mrs Konstantopoulou disagrees with these amendments, calls them unconstitutional, denounces the procedure and says that they should not pass. But then it refers to a roll-call vote at 16.00 a.m. If that's possible! Then what do we have the Rules of Procedure? Why is there a Rules of Procedure of the House and of Procedure? We'll ban him! In addition, today, on a constant surprise, the Minister comes and presents a person who is unprecedented. He doesn't have a precedent. He is intervening at the time when he speaks to a Member of the Officership, insults him publicly and corrects what he says. Where and how far, Minister, do you have that right? Where are you headed? You're holding a meeting with SYRIZA? This is a House, Minister. You have no right to insult - even though it is not a firm position for a Member who is proposing to the House - in this way and to interrupt. And in the end, he was right to say that you are bringing a fine that eventually reaches the journalists. Aren't there any sports-type cooperatives where journalists keep their status? Isn't that where the fine ends? But that's what I'll see you later. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is on a dry edge. Four months after governance of SYRIZO - ANEL I do not think there is a citizen in this place who does not feel anxious and uncertain. And I am sure there are hundreds of thousands among us today who have regretted the vote they gave on 25 January. Because, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have deceived the Greek people in the worst way. You lied to a Greek people who lived in a difficult environment and had made sacrifices, with a government that was trying in this environment and had turned the economy around. Unemployment was beginning to deviate. We have passed the economy from a recession in growth after so many years and we have housed the Greek state with dozens of reforms, even if you are questioning them. And at the critical moment you interrupted in two and a half years - not in four years - the life of this government, through electoral procedures, lying, falsifying the Greek people with a pityful promise that you are currently going underneath. And that would be a positive development, in that you do not do what you promised. The dangerous one and the most negative one is that today the country is now counting in reverse. We do not count political time in months and years, as the parties used to know each other. Now we know that the next two weeks - and the one we are going through - are the most critical of Greek history since post-Civilisation. And you are responsible through the promises you have made, through the lack of a plan you have. He asks the Greek citizen today: "Would we go to a referendum?" They ask me personally and ask you: "Would we go to national elections? Is there going to be a break? Is there going to be an agreement, that is to say, more forceful measures in this House than what you had come up with as a previous government, the so-called 'third SYRIZA Memorandum'? I wish I could answer. And if I can't be a member of the counterpopulation, does Mr. Tsipras know? Does any of SYRIZA Members know what your plan is? Unfortunately, there is no plan! And that's the worst. The worst is the dubious statements made by your officials and your ministers. But is it possible for SYRIZA officials to come out on TV every day and directly undermine the national effort, play with the pain and anguish of the Greeks, saying that we will go to the drachma, that we will go to a break with Europe and that we will get out of Europe? [[DE]] [[SO]] It is possible that a national split, which is exacerbated by the Prime Minister's own statements, who, with a divisive, unprecedented speech, comes to Parliament, is placed and speaks of the 'internal troika'. The troika abroad is "institutions" and in Greece the three opposition parties are "troika". Reminds the example that someone is in a car that someone else drives, runs too fast, goes in the opposite current, goes forward with a truck, says the co-guide to the driver "watch out where you go" and tells the driver, "but who are you, with me or with the truck?" That's what SYRIZA does. It sets up enemies, new customs and new customs in Parliament. Unfortunately, we are living in a very difficult situation for the country. For us - I repeat for once - in the audacious system of the New Democracy - and it is important to adopt it in SYRIZA too, adopt it - above the party good or interest is the word 'Greece'. Take examples from us, from our parliamentary function. Two and a half years you have not voted for a single provision and you have today - and in today's bill, Minister - a behaviour on the part of the New Democracy which you have never had in the past. We have made proposals to you, added to your proposals and provisions, and we are coming here with a positive attitude to the draft law. But let us say two words on the bill: we saw the Minister standing in a very critical style towards the parties as a whole in the New Democracy. Minister, you don't have the infallible bill, it's not even the perfect bill. That's right, Mr. Bukkokouros just before, that if you get for something good, that's that you always achieve correct titles, which are practically empty content. It is what you said, for example,'relaunch the economy'. The economy is falling apart and the hundred doses - which are a repetition of our own doses, which unfortunately do not have the returns you have said - you called them'relaunching the economy'. Humanitarian crisis: Heavy title. I would remind you that both of these bills have been passed by the New Democracy, showing both our parliamentary positive behaviour and our political morality. Humanitarian crisis, 200 million euros that do not exist. And four months later you come with a bill, which reminds me that in three provisions and one page comes to deal with the humanitarian crisis. And since then, talk! I have never heard any public MPs from the SYRIZA or ministers talk about a humanitarian crisis, as if it evaporated, disappeared, as if there are no now that SYRIZA governs, no suicides, no crisis, no unemployment, no hunger. You have no plan, of course, for any of them. The word "development" is your enemy, the word "operation" is your enemy. You are undermining the workers, you are currently undermining the effort to reduce unemployment with your economic behaviour. And all you're doing is quibble and hypocritical. You're actually doing a bad thing in the economy. And it hits this bad economy the worker himself. So all this, Minister, we see it from another perspective. We want the good of our country. That is why you see a parliamentary behaviour completely different from what you had. We stand with responsibility and patriotism - a word that you have offended all this time - the national issues and the parliamentary procedure. That is why I am saying quite simply - and the rapporteur, Mr Koukodemou, has said so - that, yes, we are positive in the face of the provisions relating to electronic ticketing. Of course, it is a positive development, although it was in the bill that we unfortunately did not have time to submit. It is positive and we support it. We stand positively on the issue of clubs for fans. This is a positive development and we will support it. We are positive about the evaluation and inclusion of sporting players' "underground" and of course we support it. This parliamentary behaviour, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you must adopt it for the future. It'll be useful to you when sometime you'll be counterpopulation again. From there, however, Minister, it opens up a great subject, a huge issue for Greek sport. We have said that the issue of dealing with violence - which exists in our country - must of course be addressed. And, of course, we stand with a positive attitude to your good intention, which we do not question. But violence on the ground with this bill will not be dealt with. It's a light light light! But positive steps are taken. [[AD]] [[4DE]] But listen to the top one. You didn't convince your co-pilot about Article 15. Article 15, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is a huge issue. In addition to the rest of the bill, it is considered whether the Greek sports organisations will participate in international organisations. We are listening to your statement. Is he sufficient? When your co-pilot, the Parliamentary Representative of ANELs, even today from this Step says he holds a reservation, what are we going to do? Will we say 'bravo, does the Minister say so in a statement'? We have strong reservations. You have no right, despite your good intentions, to jeopardise the entire sport of the country and its participation in international sports events. You don't have the right. It is very dangerous, Minister, if you finally bring the bill to a vote, that this risk should be solved without clarification. Secondly, on the question of education, I would remind colleagues from all the countries of the world that the Commission's draft law has become a scary one. The Minister for Education has produced an amendment of a hundred and fifty pages pertaining to the change in the whole education system. Is that your perception of education? Unfortunately, I have to answer 'yes'. Is that how you respect dialogue? Is that how you respect the parliamentary procedure? Of course, under the very great criticism, you took it back and brought it with a bill, but with which you make it even worse, without social consultation, without consulting Parliament. Without discussing those who are interested in education, you come and legislate under the urgency procedure the most important item called "education". But you must convey to the Minister of Education, who is presently absent from the House, even though he has critical provisions within this bill, that he will accompany him and SYRIZA over time and forever the well-known word "excellence is retaliatory". We differ, ladies and gentlemen, at all levels of SYRIZA. As far as education is concerned, we are excellence and the best we want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr Athanasios Petrakos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Brutsi, Greece has long collapsed with your policies over the past five years. This Greece we are trying to raise it from the ruins. Our Government, loyal to the people's mandate of 25 January to abolish the monumental policies and austerity, defends the interests of the country, the people's sovereignty and democracy. We are defending the inalienable right of our people to determine their fate. In these circumstances, therefore, the action of the people's forces is essential as ever to put its mark on political developments. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you must finally understand that the tough negotiation that is currently taking place goes beyond Greece and the Greek people. That is why our government, despite the blackmails, is not going to negotiate and back up to the identities of the Left and its'red lines'. We are not going to back up the blackmail, with which the working and insurance middle ages, which exists in our country until now - and with your own contribution - need to be changed. We are not going to accept reductions in pensions, collective redundancies in the private sector, non-return of collective agreements and lower wages, and dismantling of the insurance system. On the contrary, we insist and fight for the implementation of a productive reconstruction programme in the country. [[MM]] [[AD]] We are fighting and insisting on an agreement with the partners, because that is in the interest of Greece, but also throughout Europe and the European people. However, we stress in every direction that Greece is not one's hostage. The vision of a new, independent, progressive Greece, which leaves behind the memorials and neoliberalism, is the road map of this government and the Greek people. That is why today's bill is very important. Because today's bill strikes, even in introductory terms, the hard core of a hard system that exists both in Greece and in Europe. And instead of saying 'bravo' to this government and this Minister who dares to put them with huge economic interests that are back not only from the football field, but also from the bet and the bet and all of them, you guys come here and say: 'What is this government doing? Does the self-defence of the NGO strike the ability of our teams to participate in the international championships?' Today's sports bill, ladies and gentlemen, does nothing more than to ask Parliament to vote on what is, in many respects, also provided for in FIFA and UEFA regulations, regardless of whether they are implemented, that is to say, to stop the justification for using the NRA and to cover the impoverishment of Greek football. Do you not know, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, and above all you who have exercised government power, that the administrations of the NRA have so far blackmailed the leaderships, the political leadership of the Secretary of Sports for allegedly punishing groups with exclusion from European championships by violating regulations and international organisations themselves? Do you not know that a Committee on Ethics has not been set up? Aren't you aware that no Inspectors' Corps has been set up? Do you not know that the NCA itself does not apply international directives on the fight against scheduled toys? Don't you know she hasn't adopted a code of morality? Especially with regard to the Ethics Committee, I will remind you that FIFA has been forced and excluded from the President of the Asian Federation, Mohammed Bin Hamam, with a life-long exclusion for a money laundering case involving the Mundial in Qatar, while the disciplinary authorities set up by the NCA have decided that there is no reason to punish the perpetrators for their creation and participation in a criminal organisation. This is the real picture. And this real picture you had to call it and support the government. Can I remind you of some other issues? You know that we in this matter, in the case of illegal and stationed struggles, have not only dealt with now that we are government. SYRIZA had been working over time. May I remind you of a few dates? On 7/12/2009, our then MEP in the European Parliament asked the European Commission to investigate the case with the stationed matches revealed in the UEFA Report. Look out! It runs before the Commission responds to FIFA Legal Affairs Director and says there's nothing wrong. The Commission then answers and its answer creates more questions, since it says there will be self-regulation. Self-regulation, however, is a framework completely inappropriate and ineffective, because set-up games are an organised crime with motivating billions played in illegal and legal gambling. [[KO]] [[4KM]] Then, on 28/4/2010 again, our MEP Nikos Houndis asks that the teams involved in the scheduled games be withdrawn from FICHMA. Also, on 22/3/2011, a new question arises in the European Parliament, following the publication and statements of factors for attempts to support competitions, which the Commission is asked to take on initiatives to counter corruption in professional football. After all these revelations, we stress that the SCIENCE has undermined the foundations of football. The self-employed cannot be an alibi to avoid strict measures being taken. What did the NDP do for all of this while cutting off for its self-government? What the NRA has done was to make a decision - collapsing the scandal of the stationed games. That's what the VDU got! To remember everything, this decision was made! And we pointed out at that time, we had denounced, while UEFA was acquitting the teams, and UEFA punishing it, that this is a demonstration of power from the dirty political and economic establishment that rampants sport. Don't you know all this? Don't you know why this is happening? The answer is simple. Because there's a non-existent commercialisation of football. So when football and basketball are converted from toys into one of the biggest spectacles of the show, where in the football field huge sums of money are at stake, it is rather normal rather than strange that the supposed investors seek the maximum profit in all ways. Therefore, there must be full support for the government that is trying to open this issue and hit all these illegally, all those who have created and ejected violence, but also all the illegality with fixed toys. So, instead of criticising the government, you have to go along with the government on this matter, because I would like to remind you of something. An old and beloved...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u261	Where's the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u262	It's all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u263	What is the problem, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u264	Where's the Minister, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u265	It's all right! Cheers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u266	It's okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u267	So instead of accepting the threats made by the NGO, I would like to remind you of what a dear friend and companion has written, a historical form of basketball that put its seal on the foundation of the Pan-Hellenic Basketball Association. So this dear friend and partner has written a very interesting article - which I recommend you to read - in the "Spring dawn" entitled "The hoods with the tie", where Miltos Lazarides, for this is the case, says, among others: "As is known and revealed, various antique laws were written by the Troika Interior and gave them ready to the Troika Foreign, so today the NRA is using as a hood the reactions of the international federations of football and basketball, which they have, on the pretext of threatening their self-sufficientness from the bill to counter violence." “They want to convince us...” says Miltos Lazarides, “that the international federations allegedly examined the bill and found that the “prefectors of democracy” were at risk and intervened on their own initiative. And it goes on to say: 'Let us remember that members of the international federations are many - within introductory - 'democratic' countries in the past for which they are being cut. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And it goes on, ladies and gentlemen: "The subject of the bill is public order, and that is why foreign bodies, who are not going to apologize either for the deaths, for the damage of public and private property, or for the evacuation of social peace and corruption. The citizen will demand responsibility from the state rather than from some UEFA or some FIFA". [[SS]] [[KO]] Is there any in any part of the world - in your opinion - autonomous sports police, autonomous sports justice, autonomous sport democracy, autonomous sports accounts or all of this is regulated by laws that come in this House, laws which must be operated by them? But whoever speaks of self-interest, he must say whether he has democratic processes within him. Because it is not possible for the various federations to be synonymous with arbitrariness, especially when they are publicly subsidised. On the contrary, not only can the state but has an obligation to control and define the conditions required for the acquisition of sporting recognition. The prerequisites must be respect for all democratic procedures, safeguarding control. And here I really would like to stress that a regeneration of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Loyed Footballers and the Pan-Hellenic Association of Loyalty Basketballers, which I had the luck of having lived in close proximity to the first steps of their establishment, is needed to intervene both the athletes and the players themselves and the basketball players, but also to establish other clubs of players and athletes, in order to get their fates in their hands. Because the case of dealing with violence, doping, corruption and interlocutory is all about the Greek people and athletes, who in the past, with the establishment of the PSAP and PSAC, have made a great deal of progress in sport at that time. That is what is required today. The state, then, comes to regulate with this bill matters, which no one before touched. That is why this bill requires - to say so - that I be allowed to express myself - support for all the wings of this House, regardless of other differences, because we need to touch what many have not touched so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Petrakos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and five educational attendants from the 13th Municipal School of Volos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Antigone Lyberakis, Parliamentary Representative of the Party 'Potami'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u269	Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with the rabies attack "The Potami" and Stavros Theodorakis, from the speech of the Parliamentary Representative of the "Golden Dawn" a moment ago and say that we are not so much impressed by this terrible attack. Besides, we have a completely different attitude, philosophy and perceptions. We all know that we believe in cooperation, peaceful coexistence, in the spirit of cooperation between Christians and Muslims on the development of Thrace and on the long-term good quality of life there. The Golden Dawn seems to believe in cleansing and misery. And while the perceptions expressed by Stavros Theodorakis days ago have already created a very positive climate for real people living in Thrace, Muslims and Christians, strengthening the mood for cooperation, various food literature in Athens lose their coolness. I would therefore like to say that to those of you who have the age of having memories or children's memories from the reasons of the dictator Papadopoulos, listening to the Parliamentary Representative of the 'Golden Dawn', I think you were somehow transferred to time or space at that terrible time. [[AB]] [[5SS]] Then a bit looking around you, your adjoining ones, and the continuation of the debate make your cross - literally and transportly - saying that at the end it is not so bad, we are in Parliament, in Greece in 2015, to kiss your political opponents. Memorial, antimony, everyone seems amazing compared to all these views we have heard. I would like to tell you not to relax and not to be very happy because things are very dangerous when such opinions and so horrendous visions and perceptions of what needs to be done in some areas of our country. I would like this step by step in calling on all Parliament's progressive forces to take a clear and sluggish stance against how they face this grim vision of the Golden Dawn of cleansing and misery in Thrace. I think we owe it to our Republic and owe it to the inhabitants of Thrace. Let me move on to the issue of the bill quickly, to say that, as we understand it, POTAMI raises two major issues which the Minister has raised with great clarity in his initial position: the issue of violence and the issue of lawlessness. Both issues are very important. Both are not confined to professional or general sport. They are made up of attitudes, perceptions, behaviours, values that actually poison social and economic life. It is really very welcome that unprecedented position - if you like - and the Minister's decisive attitude when he really opens up with violence and with lawlessness without the usual 'yes' but, it is because of globalisation, it is the bad ones, it is the bad one or the b'. Because we are all aware that when we start invoking abstract theories, we eventually end up condemning violence unequivocally. We in POTAMI will not get tired of repeating that violence is completely unacceptable and reproaching, because there is no bad violence and good violence, as we believe there are no justified unfounded or unjustly unfounded either in sport or anywhere. I think it is unnecessary to remind you of the similarities that exist between fanatic violence and political violence. Besides, they are very often the same people who are involved in both. But that may be the very obvious. The least obvious are similarities with other types of violence, such as violence for religious reasons or racist reasons or for sexist reasons. I'm talking about violence involving both the public and the private space. So what matters is when the Minister, with the law he has brought, but also with the reason for introducing the bill - although it was short, I think it was very clear - said that it is important for Greek sport to ensure its participation in international events, but in a way that also ensures and guarantees rules and behaviour that operate in favour of an open sport, a sport without violence, without iniquity and without infringing. This long-term commitment I believe, Minister, is very important now, because now we are like a society and an economy in a peculiar situation in a Scottish shower. We have contradictory messages every day about the great picture, if you like, of the great subject which is very much the context in which we will have to move in the coming years, namely what will happen in negotiating with our partners in Europe. And it is important to be able to speak clearly and with specific quality objectives so that we can be closer to a clean and honest agreement. Of course we understand that this front - back, the cold - heat, the fact that we are close, the other is a little further than an agreement, that in every negotiation there may be. Each deal has its bottoms, it has its good moments, the bad moments, it has its bluffs, it has everything. [[RG]] [[AB]] And we will certainly be the last to be overlooked that towards the end of the year - the negotiation I mean - there is a tendency to harden all sides. But because we know all about this and because we believe it is very important that we do not lose the essence, not lose the ball, not lose our main goal at the moment, we said that we needed a cool and clean line of walking. At least we have said from the outset that we have been here to negotiate to ensure Greece's best position in Europe, in the European family. We are here to support this effort and we will support it to both friends and opponents and to acquaintances within Greece and to our partners and interlocutors in Europe and in the world, and I assure you that we are doing so with all our hearts, because we believe it. We don't do it to tell us, thank you. So we're in command. We are absolutely activists and activists in this regard. Where there are some questions is whether the entire government is being retired. And when I say the whole thing, I mean the whole thing, I don't mean the Prime Minister and a group of people around him. The entire government, without bumps and no frustrations. In the last few days especially we have learned that while the Greek side is ready, it has reached its proposals, it has cost them, it has submitted them, it is ready with formalities and costing, we are kind of stuck because our two interlocutors, the European side and the side of the International Monetary Fund, have different priorities and cannot agree with each other what the framework is in which the agreement should be made. Because, because I have been an economist for many years, I have been following the approaches, the perspective if you like, and the International Monetary Fund and the Commission, I can tell you that there have always been different priorities, between these two places, they are not even organisations. The sure thing is that Europe, which has borrowed us the largest part, is much more stringent on the issue of primary surpluses and much more comfortable on the issues of structural reforms as a prerequisite, and on the contrary, the International Monetary Fund, which did not believe much in the criticality of our own debt anyway and believed that restructuring had to be made, says "Let the issue of the surplus. Here the important are structural reforms in labour and insurance." I mean, we understand that and we know that, and that's not a news story. What concerns us, however, is that while the negotiation took place, the Greek side and all the institutions in a package called "threesome troika" among themselves have balanced what they are asking for and have come to a package, if you like, now that we see them alone, each one sets their own lines. Red people call them us, so we can get to know each other. They put on them, put on them, and suddenly the government looks around and sees a landscape, a glue full of red lines and has no place to stand literally. So I think it would be of particular value if we thought that what we can get out of it, if you like, the diversity of priorities between Europe and the International Monetary Fund, is not the worst possible result. And what's the worst possible? It is to say what the people are asking for, what they want and what they are summed up, and what a large package is coming out - the union, if you like, of the two regimes - but to go to their incision, that is to say, where they are cut off. It's a smaller package and much more realistic. In order to do so, however, we must firstly have coolness, second consensus, third consensus and fourth, one line of cruising.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u270	There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u271	There isn't, I hear. There is no single cruising line.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u272	Is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u273	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u274	There could be, however. It could and should exist because, in the end, if you wish, it is very important that we congratulate the Minister on his initiatives in the field of violence and iniquity in sport. [[PM]] [[RG]] I would like to imagine the long-term update of the Minister's objectives in a country that is part of the European Union. I can't imagine neither yours nor any of our goals coming out of it. I think that is something that we should not underestimate. Finally, I would not like to complain about the two articles on how much anyone is being promoted at school and whether there should be a Bank of Issues or not. The only reason I mention this is because in such an important bill which can mobilise a wider consensus, its inspiring people are going to put two provisions which are inconsistent. Because the Ministry of Culture, Education, Sports and I don't know what else is automatically associated? No, ladies and gentlemen. Sport could be either in a separate ministry or part of any other ministry. I do not see any special relevance to how much children are being promoted from one class to another. We are actually going to talk about the articles, but I would like to say this: how are we going to resolve the big issues of bringing together and going together and achieving this difficult negotiation, when we repeat and make exactly the same mistakes, with in fact provisions in important and - frankly - I hope that historical bills? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. PASOK Parliamentary spokesman Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause]] I also said, ladies and gentlemen, that we will be discussing today without a memorandum and a memorial. Of course, I was afraid at some point because Mr. Kontonis had taken some time when he analyzed the situation he received and said he would charge it again in the memorandum. He avoided it, so I said we'd have a good conversation about violence. They intervened in procedural terms and I said that our aim is to help and help. But Mr. Petrakos once again involved us in the case of violence with a few memorials and the effort made by the government to strike neoliberalism. I will say that this is not connected at all. Ladies and gentlemen, since the honourable Member and Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA mentioned, can he explain to us? This tough negotiation that says the government is doing, how did it lead us to open matters of particular importance, such as the one in the main pensions, which were not on the table - and I know what I'm saying - to negotiate in the previous phase? How did the government manage with the tough negotiation, instead of about 2.5 billion that was the discussion with the troika before there was a disagreement and a breach for the reasons we have repeatedly explained, to now discuss measures of between 4.5 and 6.5 billion? How can one interpret these non papers of Maximos coming out every three minutes and on Monday, they say that we are close to finding them, until we get to Friday 'we've broken them' and at the weekend Mr. Tsipras has a meeting with the financial staff and the negotiators and we find them again? Last night's peak is yesterday's non paper which told us that negotiations are blocking because they have - it says - different lines for the IMF, the European Central Bank and the European Commission, as if we do not know that every institution - so the government now tells them - has different references. The IMF, for example, from its statute - Mr Venizelos said yesterday - is concerned with issues linked to disbursements if the debt is not viable. The European Commission must at least defend the European acquis. [[EP]] [[PM]] It's known things. It is a joke and we understand that the government has not yet taken the important decision. She's still negotiating inside. But that's not a tough deal. Tough negotiation is to have arguments, to be reliable and to bring something better than what the previous government would bring. That was the message we gave to the government on January 25 and we are still waiting for, but the country has reached the edge of the cliff. Now, since the Prime Minister has decided to open - we welcome this - on Friday, which comes to us at the Prime Minister's time, he would have an ideal opportunity to respond, since the negotiation debate, to Mr Venizelos' question on the course of the negotiation. And he chose to respond to the Chief of "Potamios" Mr Theodorakis on education issues, while discussing the urgent procedure here the draft law of education, after the "retreat" of the relevant Minister, who in the bill we are discussing today, set two provisions, as if violence were related to how children and the Bank were promoted. So there will be a general debate on education. And secondly, he chose to respond to his government partner, the President of the Christian Democratic Party, for the strife to bless their beards for the shadows they are preparing. And last night we had this case with the fifty-seven plus nine, a total of sixteen amendments, which also brought the President of Parliament to the situation of denouncing both the government and the early relocation of the SYRIZA Members from the positions expressed some time ago. I would not have said that because I think we had to talk about violence, because it is not linked to the memorandum and the memorandum and the Minister avoided it. And I would like to say, as our rapporteur, Mrs Christophilopoulou, said, that our intention, which has been apparent throughout this period and at the Commission and at the institutional meetings, is to contribute and support the government in its decisions. I, ladies and gentlemen, shall not say to Mr Kontonis that I have a special reason, since I am a compatriot of the first Olympian, the Coronot of Elios, and because I come from the Olympic land of Elias, the organizer of the Olympic Games, the Sun and Ancient Olympia, to have an ideological and political debate on how the fight has turned into a conflict of hard and impeccable interests. It's probably the merchandise. It is obviously because of the fact that great interests have invested in professional sport. But, ladies and gentlemen, to make this clear and to lay rules is not linked to the fight against neoliberalism, because the most neoliberal in Europe, that is to say, the one that has transferred ralism and neoliberalism to Europe, Mrs Thatcher, is the one that has taken tough measures and imposed order. So we are discussing in the context of a social organisation that works with the rules that we all know and that the SYRIZA Government accepts them. [[A M ……]] [[EP]] We may be being told very nice ideologies by SYRIZA colleagues, but they are basically accepting the framework that the space operates today. We want to put order and hit the space that gives rise to violence. He knows Mr. Kontonis, who is from Zakynthos, as I am from Elias - I see other colleagues here, such as Mr. Baxvanakis - how many thousands of children, and older ones, every weekend in our villages deal with football and put money in their pockets and discipline children based on 'healthy people in our villages'. They may fight - it's not always idyllic, conditions - as we fought when Zakynthos came to Amalada. But, at night, they go to the tavern, they talk, they participate in the same social activity. Why? Because it's not the interest that separates them. It is a rough competition, temporary and so on. So, yes, it is the conflict of interests that leads to violence and that is the possibility of those who have the interests through the fanatic relationships they create, where money is obviously being moved, to have supporters of this fanatic violence. Let us think, ladies and gentlemen, what a society we live in. When a president of an OLAF was charged with tax evasion - if I recall - breaches of the Customs Code and referred back, the team's fans went to support him. I could say other examples of the relationship they create with the fanatic public. So what we need to discuss is, firstly, the message that we give and the rules we are going to make. We, Minister, as our rapporteur has said, will support the measures, as long as it is not a'male authority', because this is risky, it creates superpowers, that is to say, which lead to risks. We don't want any space away from State control. As our rapporteur also told you, there are other measures from the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Finance, such as control, compliance with the provisions of the Treaty. 2190 for anonymous companies, if they are indebted to, where they raise their capital, which is the money they are moving on the football market, managers, coaches, all of this cake. Yes, there are other procedures, such as bets and so on. So we can also take other initiatives and give a message as a House, ladies and gentlemen, together with an initiative that the government we now have, could take to discuss what self-employed means. So there are elections in unions - "mummy" and the delegations in the fucking backpack that are being bought? Is that a self-defense? Is it a democracy? Is it based on the Constitution and the laws of the state? We're going further. However, beware of not bringing our initiatives against what the people's sense requires to ensure with the participation of national groups and associations in Europe. I listened carefully to the Minister in his speech to tell us about the negotiations he had with the "Gods". As we have institutions now in the debt negotiation, we have institutions in football as well, and internal and external institutions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. This negotiation should take place before the bill reaches the Committee of Parliament and not wait for Mr Baltas' signatures to have the official deposit of legislative improvements. There are two topics, Article 5 and Article 15. In the light of Article 15, the institutions of the outside world have a view and we are waiting for an explicit assurance, in order to define our positions, of the Minister that he has ensured that there will be no "majority". (MO) [[AM]] I do not want to use the word used and used for our country's case because I have seen many reservations. We therefore want an explicit position on this. I don't want to be like the ones you accused of sending the bills to the outsiders, Mr. Quick said. I trust the government and the Minister responsible. The second point, Minister, is that you are legal about internal institutions. This list will be approved by the Head of Justice, the Judiciary and the Arena Ice as a proper and constitutional process? You know them much better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u277	We're looking into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u278	Does he, in other words, obey these rules so that we do not have any other kind of involvement? With this, ladies and gentlemen, I will finish my position and wait for the answers to be put with our rapporteur on the articles. Mr President, since we are now adjourning the vote, I would like to remind the House of something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u279	Mr Kutsuko, we are not going to interrupt now, but after the two parliamentary representatives left to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u280	I say so that I don't get the floor again, I don't have to. I would like to remind the House that we have departed from the debate on Mr Katrugalos' bill, for the reasons of the conflict of interest that our rapporteur has shown yesterday and we will not be taking part in the roll-call vote on the amendments. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard Mr Samara's representative speak twice about the 'Surprise parliament'. I will agree with him, because I was surprised when I heard the Vice-Presidents, on the one hand, that the current situation in sport, on the other hand, should be praised for the initiatives, that they should vote from what I understood in the bill, but that their rhetoric should not be proportionate. The same happened with the Parliamentary spokesman who just came down. He talked about the Prime Minister's time, which we had forgotten at least since Constantine Mitsotakis first established, thus upgrading the role of the MP. So today's Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, comes in to launch a process that, while he should be greeted, we heard the President-in-Office of the Step rhetoric anticipating that this will be a shadow because he will come, says, the Prime Minister to answer to one of the issues he raised - rightly - the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman. How's it going now? What's the truth? Are these secondary issues all Mr. Koutsoukos said? I don't think so. I believe that all Greeks and Greeks have the same images and performances. I will not avoid the temptation to say about this sporting factor that Mr Koutsoukos said yesterday and which, just before yesterday, came to Justice for the parliamentary control I have exercised, asking for a few hundred thousand euros. After an interview with Mr Thomas, and after expressing my opinion there, I received his own calls, where he told me that he prevented, ladies and gentlemen, the followers of his group from being in the ditch, because I had taken part in a television debate and had expressed the position of the Christian-Democratic Party on the issues of sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u283	Mr. President, where is the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u284	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u285	The next day, ladies and gentlemen, the walls around my home and from my political office of the Fathers were filled with slogans threatening, abusive, even against my life. This is certainly not only true in one group, but only in one factor. And all this while we have heard today that we need to take other initiatives than what the Minister of Sport is introducing today and while Mr Andrianos, with his position - and again is unprecedented - was applauded by the government's chairs and colleagues in the Co-Population, where you realise that he clearly showed this applause that they were all in agreement with the former Deputy Minister of Sport, with his position, the speech of Mr Samaras' parliamentary representative was as if it were from another party, indeed. He's got the tension. This is where the question arises: How are we really, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the legislation brought by the government, the new government, to enthusiasm and to say, as you said a moment ago, "We voted for the humanitarian crisis", said Mr Brutsis, "the aid provided by the first bill? Have we voted for the other? They're probably going to vote today. How can it be true, voting on them, but on the other hand saying that these lead to ruin? Isn't that absurd? Ladies and gentlemen, of course the broad consensus, as Mr Andrianos said, seems to be guaranteed by this bill and in the right direction, as Mr Andrianos said, is, and honesty and transparency, as Mr Andrianos said, served. I reiterated this for those who, if necessary, by the members of the opposition, want to insist on another rhetoric. But, Minister, I would also like to highlight what you have said here today in your prototype 'to stay on what has been agreed'. You said it yourself. And I imagine that many of my fellow Members, from all sides, have insisted that you clarify whether the word 'internal affairs' may be the synonym of our 'internal' cases if the word 'internal' is the same as our 'internal', their own' assumptions. It is crucial, although I believe that explanations have been given, but by attending the whole meeting, Minister, I note that it might not be wrong to repeat that it is just one and that one. Of course, there is no cause for concern, since, as you assured by this House, let us stick to what you have agreed, and after everyone has agreed, what do we have to insist more? Ladies and gentlemen, violence within the courts is of course a complex problem that the state has to face. We heard from the Opposition that this is a serious reason to change the legal arsenal that the previous government and previous governments had provided their sport and protagonists. The bill under discussion offers such practical solutions, which we are sure will restore the confidence of both fans and of the sports world. Unfortunately, so far, we have not really managed to deal with these phenomena of violence in sport, and proof of this is the unacceptable situation. [[AG]] [[FT]] However, the effort made by the new political leadership of the Ministry of Sport by the reactions of the 'unknown' actors proves in practice that it is moving towards a resolution effort, an effort to respect the law and all this through a substantial consultation with the relevant UEFA and FIFA European federations. Exceptionally, however, we must stress that sport is under the protection and supreme supervision of the state. That is what the Constitution requires in Article 16, paragraph 9. What do we all have to do? So, should we close our eyes to what's happening, to the complaints that every three and a little bit of publicity about set-up games, to buy teams and athletes? Are we going to remain unrealistic in the verbal and racist attacks of fans and actors, in the laundering of 'black' money, as well as in the total immunity of the administration of detainees of federations? The Independent Greeks and the Christian Democratic Party of Greece welcome this difficult effort actually being made by the new political leadership of the Ministry of Sport to put an end to this grim situation and to become a new beginning. Only in this way will the restoration of the public on the right of feeling finally come and we will enter a right path. Finally, it is not possible to lead the UAE people who are currently accused of setting up criminal organisations and who may go through the prison door tomorrow or be those factors that the prosecution investigations have discovered that together with referees are involved in illegal transactions and that the election of EPC administrations is not done in any democratic way or fully in line with the UEFA and FIFA statutes. Did you really hear what Mr. Platinum says? With regard to, he says, the state must have strict prison sentences, deprivation of the right to enter the stadiums and systems for those who enter them. That is precisely what the Minister brings today and asks for our approval. On the subject of violence and security, the Greek Government certainly has a say and a role. Platini says that 'we wish and pursue cooperation'. Ladies and gentlemen, at last, we'll have cameras and an electronic ticket to the stadiums. The cameras will record properly and will examine all attempted violence movements and each one will have a nominal ticket proving his entry into the race. Fans' clubs will be a fact and we'll have the full identification of the members. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been noted by all of us that soccer in its present form is not worthy of it. When violence, corruption, inconvenience dominate in an area that should be a beacon for young people, then the state must intervene and correct bad texts. The Independent Greeks give their full support to the struggle of the State Secretary and the new political leadership on the issue of violence, because we all wonder how it is possible for European struggles to take place in the courts - churches - let me express - and here in the interior to be a mess. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two, three minutes, Mr President. I would like your tolerance as you have done with other colleagues. So on this point we want to say that we support all those initiatives and actions that are being taken in order to combat violence, and that is why we are in favour of creating a more general framework for prevention of violence, which is not yet available in the field of sport. In other words, from the cameras and the online ticket, there are issues of education that we need to see in order to train youth in the minds of the well-being and organisational issues, in which the AOC itself must take initiatives before the competitions are held, in order to prevent problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government shows on all sides that it is moving in practice in a resolution effort, an attempt to comply with the law and all this in a consultation that has brought the results that we all wanted, together with the relevant European federations. [[MT ……]] [[AG]] To conclude, I would like to say again that the effort to restructure professional sport enjoys the support of the entire Greek society. The government with this bill is doing the undertakings for substantial reforms in public life and for the support of social goods, such as sport. In this fight, the Independent Greeks help with all our powers. The aim of all must be to return the Greek family to the stadiums, without hybrid slogans or hooligans in the field. In conclusion, the current government will be judged by the results that this bill will bring to sport, because what it has received does not honor either Greek sport or our culture. That is the objective and from this we will be judged by the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with a very brief comment, on the basis of the pretextful indignation and pretextful sensitivity shown by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, as well as by the PASOK, with the parliamentary group who left, because the current government turns the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament into a rag and brings numerous amendments. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Isn't that what they did when they were government? Same stuff. What the current government does, you did, only now that the roles have changed. They copy you not only on the contents, but on the methods. Of course the President may also have her own priorities and she tries to impose them at times, and sometimes in such a way, for example last night, which touches on or may go beyond the limits of parliamentary cretinism. From this point of view the debate was generalised on the basis of the draft legislation on combating violence in sport. The situation is shattered by the tensions of the government with the troika - apologies, with the institutional partners, as the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Union today - which are at the expense of the people. It is for this very reason and it is no coincidence that, as things show, the time of the agreement is nearing, various governmental non - papers are circulating, which sharpen the tone of confrontation. Also, the great declarations made by the Government and SYRIZA are multiplying in such a way that they function as a method of overlapping the real pursuits of the government. So, what are you pursuing? You are seeking to cover with your tactics the fact that at the heart of this negotiation - now the responsible coordinator of the negotiation is entering - there is a list of old, but also new anti-grass measures, which do not question, but build on the established anti-grass legal framework established by the Memorandums. For example, I just heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman say with great proclamations that the working middle ages will not be maintained. This was said just now by Stepa, when the government itself yesterday withdrew from the provisions of the draft law on public administration reform, the articles relating to collective agreements in public administration. You withdrew them by maintaining this status of flexible and multi-formal labour relations in the narrow and wider public sector. Today the school cleaners were protesting outside the Ministry of Administrative Reform. The hostage of their contracts is maintained, and they cover fixed and continuous, basic needs for the operation of schools and the hygiene of school groups for children who go to schools. [[SO]] [[MT]] You, the government itself, have referred to the benches the bill which the Ministry of Labour claims is ready for the allegedly lower wages and collective agreements. Why don't you bring it? Because, of course, it's in the prerequisites of the whole discussion. While, of course, we must also remind ourselves of the saying of the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, from the United States. He said that the issue with the labour market can be tackled, because there are smart applications on the basis of best practices in the rest of the world, in the developed capitalist world. After all, your advisor is not the World Labour Organisation itself. Will he, for example, inform you of the zero hour agreement in force in Great Britain, so that we can apply it here as well? This is also an optimal practice of'security', which is implemented everywhere in the European Union and not in the countries only where there are memos. We say this because, for example, the issue of flexibility in the labour market is one of the prerequisites that will boost capitalist development. That is why the current government is struggling. That is why you are negotiating, speed up the process of capitalist development. The demand for capitalist growth is flexibility in the labour market, because it is one of the factors - the main one - for how the working class negotiates its price, the sale price of the labour force, under what conditions it sells this labour force. What you want is a very cheap working class and labour force, without structured labour and insurance rights, because this is the main factor, the top and only factor, the shielding of the competitiveness of business groups and, by extension, the strengthening of capitalist profitability. In this context, the agreement, which you have made with the institutional partners on 20 February, was initiated, as you say, by which you extend the loan agreement by four months, and the memorandum, and which you do not bring to Parliament to discuss - not to be voted on, but not even to be discussed. Because in these contexts you are embroidering and shaping the new major agreement. And, of course, in all these contexts of methodology, you want to secure the popular consensus on any anti-grassroots effect resulting from these negotiations. And we say to what result, because whether it is an agreement that has a temporary and uncertain character and will shape the requirements of a new memorandum, with new measures and possibly a new loan contract, or the result of the accident - not a rupture - which, of course, does not call into question the economic domination of the role of industrialists, shipowners and bankers, much more in the context of the European Union. So either the agreement or the accident shapes all these conditions so that the people remain on the sidelines of developments and accept the sacrifice of satisfying people's needs on the altar of the profitability of business groups, capitalist businesses, which you certainly do not question, but you are serving instead. That is why you are preparing the ground for a referendum to make the people's accomplice to this crime. Of course, take advantage of your disorientation - as a government - of the diversity in the approaches which the European Union has, for example, on the one hand with the International Monetary Fund, on the other hand, by saying yesterday about the red lines they have. For example, the International Monetary Fund has, as a red line, labour and insurance and the European Union, the primary surplus and budgetary consolidation. But this diversity in the approaches, known - the role of good and evil was time-consuming in this debate on the basis of the Memorandums - has a real basis. The real basis is to deal with the most severe competition and conflicts between the European Union and within the European Union itself with other imperialist organisations, such as the International Monetary Fund or the United States. [[DE]] [[SO]] At the heart of these fierce competitions, for example, is whether or not to agree on the transatlantic partnership for trade and investment between the European Union and the United States. Germany's role and strength in the European Union are at the heart of it. The sources of supply of energy resources are at the centre, but also the pipelines that will ensure this supply at European Union level. At the end of the day, the burden-sharing for the management of the total state debt at the level of the European Union and the euro area is at the end. While all these contradictions - and you are also taking part in these contradictions - are a common component of both of these differences in the approaches, namely the International Monetary Fund and the Americans on the one hand and the European Union on the other, it is a levelling-up of the rights of the working class and the people in the name of armoring the competitiveness of business groups. That is why both of them together are breaking their clothes for reforms that need to be speeded up and moving to Greece - and not just Greece. They are reforms that form, create permanent, stable mechanisms for reproduction of a very cheap labour force or which form and create new profit fields for overcompensated capital. So no expectation should be given to our people for the outcome of this negotiation. Of course, the large scales of government officials are not limited to negotiating. We have also seen in today's bill the difference in the approach between the Minister, who, in a modest manner, tried to deal with the issue, knowing the extent of the interventions that touch this issue, and the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, who says that "we are hitting the case of violence on the hard core". The hard core, the umbilical cord of violence, as our rapporteur has rightly and fully developed, are the huge economic interests that are linked to football, basketball, where sport, the action of the diverse AUE, has been effectively professionalised, the great economic interests. And, of course, what FIFA or UEFA do in Greece are squeezings in front of what FIFA or UEFA do, financial scandals. They are bits - the others are felonies - because the Greek market is too small for the sizes of speculation, where some are trying to use football to launder dirty money. If you want to hit the umbilical cord of violence, the first thing you're going to do is stop the action of the OSCE, the symphony of the capital of business groups, business and sport. But that's not what you're doing. And you don't, because we understand that there are different approaches within the government. The one you are represented is forcing you to be even more flexible in the matter of self-employed, of course, on the basis of what the SGP and the OSCE want. For example, we know that former President of the main political body, SYRIZA, was also President of the EPP after. We also know the banks that were elected by your candidate region down in Piraeus, in the big port. So there are all these data. You make a little effort to deal with some aspects and yet you retreat under pressure, Minister. Our rapporteur has told you of certain pressures you have made in the case of the self-government or the appointment of judges. We say, on the basis of what the Commission has achieved, bring them and we shall vote on these two points, because we agree. Not that this situation will change, but at least it is a step. So take the step and do not retreat and bring what the Commission has achieved to come to Parliament and not to the legal corrections you have made. However, you do not even take into account those individualities that our rapporteur proposed, which do not change the situation, do not remove this conflict between business interests and sport. At least, at least, you're taking the FAO from the Ministry of Sports to the Ministry of Development to check it out from there. Why don't you accept this proposal from the JRC? Put it on. Our rapporteur has invited you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u288	Who told you we didn't accept it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u289	Put it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u290	Madam President, just a minute, because Mr Karathanasopoulos said something very important and I want to reply to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u291	Minister, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u292	You didn't mention it. It doesn't exist in the provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u293	But they're not in the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u294	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u295	I know it's not. That's what we're telling you. Put it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u296	Minister, wait a minute to finish Mr. Karathanasopoulos, and then you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u297	I shall conclude, Minister, and you will speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u298	No, Mr. Karathanasopus. You'll finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u299	I shall now conclude, Madam President. So the one thing we have told you is that, that is, that the ODPs should be transferred to the Ministry of Development. Secondly, the Greek football and basketball teams must leave SMICHMA. We mean every form of betting, domestic and foreign. They'll all leave now if you want to make some individual recess in this direction. In this respect, therefore, our rapporteur has referred very detailedly to the attitude that we are going to take. We are telling you again this: dare and bring the original provisions on both issues, namely on the self-employed and on the question of the appointment of judges. And we will support them. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u300	The Minister has the floor. Here, Mr. Contonis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, the bill we are discussing does not contain any provision relating to the checks of football companies or all sports public limited companies, because this bill has specific anti-violence measures, Mr Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u302	We know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u303	Well, if you know, why you're telling me here and why you're telling the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u304	We're not talking about... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u305	Wait a minute. You should know - and I told the relevant Commission - that there is already a joint Commission of the General Secretariat of Sports and the relevant Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, to which the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Trade, etc. is subject, to see exactly how the control of these football companies and, in general, of the sporting public limited companies is to be effective and to produce results. So you're getting ahead of yourself. While I have already announced it, you come and say 'Why don't you do it'! But it's in this design we're planning and it can't be done that way very easily and very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u306	For the IMPLEMENTATION? Why don't you take care of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u307	With regard to these issues that you have raised for the IMPLEMENTATION, we already do with this bill - and I'm glad you have it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u308	Generalize it! We challenge you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u309	That's it! Bravo! But these issues, Mr Karathanasopoulos, cannot be solved in a bill on violence. This is the subject of a much wider sport law, which will require wider consensus. I agree with what you say. I can tell you that, in principle, I am in agreement. But we need to see how we are going to face the current problem today. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u310	Thank you very much to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" Hall and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the Carditomagullas Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before we proceed to the vote, we will give the floor to two more speakers, in order to proceed with the procedure until the distribution of the bill is completed, and then we will be adjourned as soon as we have decided. Mrs Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou, Member of the SYRIZA, has spoken for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u311	Why, Madam President, since it's lower on the list?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u312	There has been a change between parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u313	Yeah, but say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u314	Here, Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the bill against violence in sport, which we are called upon to discuss and vote today, comes as an antidote to one of the greatest diseases in modern Greek society. Mostly it is the expression and implementation of the government's popular mandate of 25 January to restore justice. This bill has a twofold role. First of all, it puts transparency and legitimacy on the ground by promoting the democratisation of Greek football and the defence of the working rights of footballers. [[MM]] [[AD]] At the same time, of course, it seeks to put a definitive end to the blind fanatic violence that has been stumbling Greek football for decades. The subject of violence in Greek football has always been a huge problem for the socio-political fabric, always nourished by corruption and uncontrolled operation of various sports clubs, sections of paid athletes, sports anonymous companies, sports federations and professional associations. It is known that many of these legal persons in synergy with various media, not only, have thrown and continue to fire oil in and out of the ground. These phenomena of violence and corruption completely despise the sport of football in the eyes of fans and tarnish the athletic ideals and the fan spirit. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the Legislative Decree of the Minister of Sport brings all Members of Parliament before their responsibilities, especially the factions of the previous Governments, as well as all anonymous sports companies, many of whom were incubators of lawlessness. For the first time, taboo themes are put and discussed in their true dimensions, such as the famous self-sufficient football. Of course, we respect its content, but this situation of arbitrariness and lawlessness cannot continue, which, on the pretext of the self-employed, spiraled our legislation and embarrassed the country's legal order. The ability of the Minister responsible for sport to impose high fines on sporting anonymities, not only for their involvement in cases of violence but also for their refusal to cooperate with public bodies, demonstrates the seriousness with which the government touches the root of the problem. This is also evident in the possibility of imposing similar fines on the media that encourage or incitly motivate violent behaviours. As referred to in Article 2, the Sports Anonymous Companies are directly committed to taking all measures to ensure that, at last, the online ticket, the fan card, as well as the electronic surveillance systems of sports facilities, already exist. These administrative measures have not only been aimed at addressing a problematic situation which has affected Greek sport for decades, but also at the financial support of amateur sport, through the disposal of the collectors of the fines to promote sporting education. What needs to be stressed in particular is the Ministry's plan to tackle the eternal issue of corruption in the field of sport. There is strong faith that the establishment of disciplinary bodies with regular prosecutors and judges, as well as the conduct of ongoing checks on the property situation of arbitrators, their assistants and observers, will contribute to a maximum extent towards the resolution of football and, more generally, sport. Ladies and gentlemen, violence, regardless of a socio-political framework, is not born from scratch, but is recycled. Its response, therefore, requires systematicness and sensitivity, as violence has always been a psychopathological phenomenon with psychosocial and economic political bases. It therefore requires a legal framework for dealing with administrative, economic and social issues. This framework, as proposed in the draft law, will coordinate different social actors, public and private, inviting them to take the necessary measures, in accordance with constitutional law, to combat violence and illegality in sport in particular. I will say a few words, ladies and gentlemen, before I close the provisions on changes in education. It is particularly pleasant for those who have been involved for years in the field of education that a solution is finally being found to the issue of the theme bank, as 50% of the choice of subjects for the high school classes has ceased, as referred to in Article 13. [[KO]] [[5KM]] The above, combined with the reintroduction of the average import of "9.5", as well as the added provision in Article 13 of the Bill on Violence in Sport, demonstrate how committed the government is to rebuild, rebuild the sense of public confidence towards the institutions of society by laying new foundations on sport and education. Because sport and education of a place are inextricably linked and define the cultural character of a people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been distributed. On this point, then, we will suspend the debate on the bill we are discussing, namely the bill on violence in the field, to vote on the articles and amendments of the draft law 'Democratisation of the administration - Fight against Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions' and their vote will be taken separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u317	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u318	What process, Mr. Theochari? I don't know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u319	The procedure for voting. Because the Bureau said it would take a position...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u320	Why do you want to speak on a point of order? The procedure is specified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u321	Because the Bureau has said that it will take a position and does not take a position on a particular matter. Give me a minute's speech and I'll explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u322	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u323	Yesterday the Bureau, through the President of Parliament, not by any President, said that the Bureau is not yet taking a position on the unconstitutional parliamentary amendments accepted by the Minister. And we said we were having the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u324	Do you consider them unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u325	Yes, we regard them as unconstitutional since they have budgetary costs and are not accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. They are contrary to Article 73(3), in which case they are unconstitutional. We therefore expected the President to be here today and to take a position on the Bureau. If she wants to continue fugitive, whenever she is not interested, to disappear in the Acts of Legislative Content and not to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u326	Mr Theocharis, I would ask you to be absent from your report from the personal reports of a person who is not in the Chamber in order to be able to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u327	Good! Let the President come and answer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u328	But I would inform you, Mr Theoharis, that last night at 03:15, the debate was declared final on this bill and the House decided, through the Members present, that this announcement was made by the President of this House itself - the vote on the articles and amendments. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u329	I mean, it won't take a place...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Theochari, I understand your intervention. I believe, however, that this issue is over. In fact, it ended late last night...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u331	At that time, we must state this: the Bureau of Parliament, despite the fact that it said it would take a clear position, is consciously deciding not to take a position on the anti-constitutional initiatives. This cannot go unnoticed by the Greek people, as it will not pass unnoticed and the fact that SYRIZA accumulated will vote to abolish the "Dignity", which it voted against in November.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u332	What dismantling?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u333	That will therefore have a name and each and every Member of Parliament will take his or her responsibilities into account today. The President of Parliament will also take its responsibilities, whenever it is of interest not to be present and whenever it is of interest to remember the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. The Rules of Procedure and the Constitution are not rampant!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u334	Thank you very much, Mr Theocharis, for your remarks and your statement. But I would just like to remind you that last night - very late, of course - the vote was taken on the three amendments, which the President of the Parliament himself pointed out, and mutual explanations were given and the House approved them. [[SS]] [[KO]] Thank you very much for your remarks. We therefore move on to the vote on articles and amendments. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u335	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u336	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u338	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Is this House inquiring? Can Article 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u340	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u343	Article 4 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u346	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u349	Article 6 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u351	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. It's a little growing up - a little bit of a majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u354	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u357	Article 9 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u360	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u361	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u363	Article 11 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u365	Article 12 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u366	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u367	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u368	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u370	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. [[AB]] [[6SS]] Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u372	Article 15 therefore has been accepted as majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u376	Article 16 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u378	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u379	Therefore, Article 18 was accepted as it is unanimously. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u380	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u381	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u382	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u384	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u386	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 21a be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u388	So Article 21a was accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u389	Article 22 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u392	Article 23 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u393	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u394	Article 24 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u395	Article 25 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u397	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u398	Madam President, this article has many paragraphs. Let me tell you that in paragraphs 1, 2, 6, 8, 11 and 12 we vote 'NAH' and in paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 13, 14, 15 we vote 'PAHON'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u399	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Mr Katsotis, all your remarks have been recorded. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u403	Article 27 therefore has been accepted as majority. [[RG]] [[AB]] Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u407	Article 27 therefore has been accepted as majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u411	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. We are now entering the vote on the amendments. We shall begin with Amendment No 87 and number 34. I would remind you that this amendment concerns the abolition of a special supplementary pension account for staff from the Solidarity Fund for Greek Sugar Industry, and there is also a regulation in this amendment on the retirement of mothers with minor or incomplete children insured in the field of photodefinitional and pictogram TV insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u412	For the grabbing of the AAA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u413	This is not the case, you will be placed, Mr Katsotis. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 87 and a special number 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u414	Rule 29, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u415	We won't say that, the services of this House will. Of course, they'll follow all the next ones. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 87 and a special number 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u418	No, and we're denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u419	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 87 and a special number 34 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article, with number 29. We continue with Amendment No 88 and number 35. I would remind you that this amendment, as Mr Voutsis explained yesterday and presented it very thoroughly, concerns the State financing of political parties. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 88 and a special number 35 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u420	Not and we denounce this amendment. We said it yesterday. It is unacceptable for specific parties to take state money at the moment. We stress it once again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u422	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u423	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 88 and a special number 35 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article, apparently number 30. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 106 and a special number 47, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u424	The amendment with a general number 105 and a special number 46, which is the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u425	Amendment 105 will be put to a roll-call vote, Mrs Theleritis. We are talking about these amendments for which no roll-call request has been tabled. This amendment concerns the amendment and supplementation of the n. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I think it was completely explained yesterday by the Minister responsible for this matter. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 106 and a special number 47, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u428	Here you go. Therefore, the amendment with a general number 106 and a special 47 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, and is part of the bill as the same article, obviously with number 31. We shall now vote on the amendment with a general number of 107 and a special number of 48. This amendment deals with arrangements concerning medical on-the-spots in the U.S., PEDY, E.S.A., as well as NIMITS specialists, Egypti and the Hospital Aluminium. It was explained yesterday by the Minister, Mr. Xanthos. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number 107 and a special number 48 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u429	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 107 and a special 48 was accepted as it stands and is part of the draft law as the same article under number 32. We are entering the vote on the amendment with a general number of 108 and a special number 49. I would remind you that this amendment concerns the amendment of the legal framework for the functioning of the subsidiary doctors' institution. It was explained in detail yesterday by Mr. Blonde. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 108 and a special number 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u432	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 108 and a specialist of 49 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We shall now vote on the amendment with a general number of 109 and a special number of 50. I would remind you that this amendment concerns the amendment of Article 14 of the Treaty. Regulation (EU) No 432/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 4312/2014 and Regulation (EC) No 4312/2014, on the daily care centres for the elderly, the two-day and daily care centres for disabled persons and the support centres for Roma and vulnerable groups. The Minister explained it in detail yesterday. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 109 and a special number 50, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u434	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 109 and a specialist of 50 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment with a general number of 112 and a special number of 52. I would remind you that this amendment concerns the amendment of Article 28 of the n. Council Regulation (EEC) No 4033/2011 on the first reception, reception and return procedures of third-country nationals. The Minister responsible was here yesterday and presented it in detail. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number 112 and a special number 52 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u437	Therefore, the amendment under number 112 and a special 52 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number 82 and a specialist of 30? It is a parliamentary amendment to the operation of the EMRP.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u438	Madam President, a request for a roll-call vote has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u439	Excuse me. Your group has requested a roll-call vote on the amendment with a general number 81 and the amendment with a general number 83, not an amendment with a general number 82. [[EP]] [[PM]] The text we have in our hands concerns...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u440	Until the river proceeds...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u441	What am I supposed to do, Mr. Catalan? I don't want to comment. Will this House therefore ask: is the amendment accepted under a general number 82 and a specialist of 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u442	We say 'no' to it and to all the other Members, because they did not come the right way to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u445	Therefore, the parliamentary amendment under a general number 82 and a specialist of 30 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We shall now vote on the amendment with a general number of 60 and a special number of 9. I would remind you that this amendment is a parliamentary amendment, all of which I shall be announcing from now on are parliamentary regulations, and this applies to the provision of provisions for posting of staff by public limited companies in the wider public sector. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 60 and a special number of 9 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u448	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 60 and a special 9 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are voting on the amendment with a general number of 98 and a specialist of 40. I would remind you that this amendment concerns the redefinition of the terms of employment of workers, former clearers, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, it is also a parliamentarian. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 98 and a special number 40, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u451	Today, because we have tabled our own proposal, which solves the issue of cleanliness.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u452	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 98 and a specialist of 40 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. For ministerial amendments 105/46, 122/58 of the draft law, as well as for parliamentary amendments 56/6, 57/7, 66/14, 68/16, 79/27, 80/28, 81/29, 83/31, 90/37, 91/38, 111/51 and 103/44, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the 'Potami' Parliamentary Group. As far as the planned procedure is concerned, we need to remind ourselves. In accordance with Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, 1 in the Rules of Procedure, the roll-call vote shall be taken when a request signed by the total number of Members is submitted from 1/20. At the end of the debate on this matter, the names of the signatories are given for the request by Members. If the required minimum number of Members present by the signatories is not completed, the application shall be deemed not to have been submitted. [[A M ……]] [[EP]] In accordance with Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, If there is a minimum number of signatories, the sitting shall be suspended and a statement shall be made at the premises of the House. The sitting shall be resumed 10 minutes after the announcement. Under Rule 72(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I will read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr Stavros Theodorakis. Abstentions. Mr. Panagiotis Kartsoulis. Here you go. Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis. Here you go. Mr. Gregory Fisherian. Here you go. Mr. Theocharis Theocharis. Here you go. Mr. George Amyras. Here you go. Mrs. Antigone Lyberakis. Here. Mrs. Crossula Antonaku. Here. Mr. Nikolaos Orphanus. Here you go. Mrs. Christina Tachiau. Here. Mrs. Catherine Marcou. Here. Mr. George Mavrotas. Here you go. Mr. Jason Fotillas. Here you go. Mr. Alexander Hadjimitriou. Here you go. Mr. Spyridon Danellis. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Barriots. Here you go. Mr. Kyriakos Charakides. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u453	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. There will be a roll-call vote. In accordance with Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The amendments we accept say 'THE'. The amendments which are not accepted are 'Not acceptable'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Panagiota Dritselis is called on the list by SYRIZA and Mr. Georgios Amyras from Potami. I would also like to inform you that the Bureau has, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, sent letters and fax to Members of Parliament on a mission from this House abroad, to which they give their vote on the articles of the bill and amendments. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u454	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by my colleagues under Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u455	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] [[AG]] [[FT]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to the House that we continue the debate on the principle of the draft law 'Extensive measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions' until the result of the vote is passed. I propose that three Members be given the floor and then the rest of them will naturally follow. Is this House conducive?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u456	It's a conspiracy for this House. Good. Minister, you wanted something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u457	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u458	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u459	There has also been an intervention by colleagues from Officerial Representation and other parties regarding the regulation of Article 5(1). It has been added to Article 5(1) at the end after the point referred to as 'the Head of the Court of First Instance of Athens', the words 'or other competent judicial body'. The same sentence shall also be added to paragraph 2 of Article 5 ‘the other competent judicial body’. I give it to you to share with colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u460	I'm sorry, Minister, what you're presenting is improvement of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u461	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u462	You should do this to us clearly - for the services of this House, I say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u463	I testified them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u464	Well, thank you very much, Minister. So we shall proceed as we have agreed and as the House has agreed. Mr Hussein Zabeck, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor and Mrs Christina Tajau from Potami is prepared. Mrs Triantafel will be followed by Mrs Maria. Mr. Zabeck, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u465	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, sport is an institution for the use of free time and an integral part of the social organisation of modern societies. However, the spread of sports and its merchandise led to the emergence of the phenomena of violence in the field of sport and the field. In fact, if we include the economic crisis factor in the past five years, we will see that the phenomena of violence in the field have been intensified and have been a way of evacuating the world. This bill seeks to put an end to the incidents of violence and racism within the stadiums and to manage the arbitrariness in the field of sport as a whole. The need for such a bill to come is huge enough to think about how many times fields have been transformed into battlefields over the past decade, unfortunately with victims. Thus, this draft law enables the Minister responsible for sport after incidents of violence to temporarily ban one or more racing, transfer the opening time or postpone the execution and fines for sporting anonymous companies for violence in or out of racing spaces. These provisions are part of the smooth functioning of professional sport since they shield both fans in order not to receive violent behaviour and groups whose recognition is affected by such incidents. We are hitting the logic of hooliganism and fanaticism at its roots because, ladies and gentlemen, these behaviours are not an example of either the values of sport or of noble speech. At the same time, there are little cases where we have been faced with racist behaviour within the lands, even with internationally recognized athletes on the site of the victim. [[MT ……]] [[AG]] Young people, with the responsibility of the previous governments, are caught in the vicious circle of violence, intolerance, extermination of the other, because the stadiums have become poles of cultivating racist, even fascist logic, which must be beaten for the sake of the whole society. With the online ticket we seek to modernise the entrance to the stadiums and guarantee the safety of fans. But we do not choose the fan card, with which we were opposed as it contained personal data recordings. At the same time, the imposition of fines on the media for the encouragement or approval of violence is, in fact, served by the code of conduct, which provides for objective information rather than the guidance of fans. With this logic we put an end to the extreme press releases that, as you all know, before the critical games enhance the tendencies of fanaticism. One of the most important changes in the bill is, of course, the change in the status of disciplinary bodies. Over the years, ladies and gentlemen, the disciplinary bodies of football, appointed by the NRA, have been made up of retired lawyers acting under its direction. For the restoration of the judiciary itself, we appoint regular judges with a two-year term, appointed by the Supreme Judicial Council. Finally, the fight against the manipulation of racing and betting fraud, with the cooperation of international professional sport, is an innovation of our Government so that we do not see any more phenomena of corruption and of interaction, such as the recent cases pending, but also to protect professional sport. All the provisions, ladies and gentlemen, are the result of consultation with the European Football Federation, UEFA, with which we share a common will to combat violence and lawlessness that is plagued by professional sport in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, on the left, sport is a very important issue. This bill shows the government's intention not to be afraid to clash with the great interests that have turned sport into a business capital, so that people and families can go to the court and enjoy the joys of healthy sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr Zabeck, who was very precise in his time. The reason for Mrs. Tachiau from Potami is to prepare Mr. Panzas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I come up completely uncoordinated by the procedure. It is exactly what I said yesterday - it did not take a few hours - on the subject of reform. The big problem is bureaucracy, and as an example I have mentioned the fact that in Parliament we are not making electronic votes with our cards. We're in a process that's a little chaotic. We are now trying to count the votes. It seems a little crazy to me, but anyway, that's the way it is. Let's go to the bill. Every time a government bill comes, we hear a reason that always has a social character, a huge humanism or the needs that need to be met. We are all listening to this from the Members of the government parties, especially from the Members of SYRIZA. Then we hear that we are very lucky, because in this country at last there is someone who will cure this whole problem, that it is a principle that will continue, of course, and also, that anyone who does not come to support the bill should be ashamed of, not talking. But we want to make a constructive criticism. We are not coming here to reject, but to criticise. I would therefore like to refer to the famous self-interest, because we are constantly listening to this, but some things need to be cleared up. The self-government of the NDP was legislated in 2006 on the state of the state of Giorgos Orphanou, when there was then a great confrontation with the then president of the NGO. It was the first risk of football grexit, resulting in various contributions to the adoption of the law, which specifically for the sport of football provides that all issues of the operation and organization of the sport of the Hellenic Football Federation and its members are regulated autonomously by the SSU and its organs, in accordance with its statutes and regulations and those laid down by the European and World Federation of Football, even if sports legislation says other things. [[SO]] [[MT]] Issues of procedural control for the State grant of State aid, control of legality, public order and security shall be subject to the exclusive regulatory powers of the State. Yes, very good. But these provisions - to say their name - did not in fact introduce any real reform in the field of football at that time, since the NCA as a trade union, as a trade union, enjoys the self-employed person who enjoys every club within the framework of the union freedom established by the Constitution and the Civil Code and enables it to regulate its own matters of operation and organisation of its affairs. What was important in this arrangement was that the NCA could define the issues relating to football even in a different way than the applicable sports law, Law 2523/1999. This has resulted in the concept of self-interest to be interpreted in a broad sense and to gain the concept of immunity, so that any intervention by the state, with its institutionalised bodies, in the field of football, is considered to be a violation of the NRA's self-interest and, therefore, as a ban, as a result of the creation of corruption and also of violence, as we have seen. Corruption seems to have touched on various bodies and committees, with the final result that the rules applicable to football are not complied with. In other words, the problem in the field of football, as well as in the NGO as an organiser, is not the lack of a legal framework, but the corruption of persons who make up organisations and committees and their control by the interests that may exist. Mr Contonis, seeing this situation, wanted with the bill - particularly in its original form, as he was - to intervene in the internal affairs of the NRA, so that the State can regulate them, as far as the other issues are concerned, where there is an illegality with the existing legal framework, the State has the possibility with its institutions, i.e. through its judicial authority, to intervene without any need to intervene in matters relating to the internal functioning of the NRA. In this context, the draft law provides for the establishment of the OSH disciplinary and judicial bodies with regular, active judges, because it is assumed that the ordinary judges offer more guarantees of impartiality than lawyers. In this way, however, the problem of the quality of certain people is raised in an institutional problem, without any substantial incision being made. Let us say that in the past disciplinary and judicial bodies had worked with regular judges, but there are two problems here. One problem is the huge slowdown in the adoption of decisions. And when we talk about justice, when we discuss the huge problems, we come and say 'Now, regular judges, you do not get the cases you have, you will now get the sports cases'. And let us not talk about it now, and let us not talk about it. There is also a breach of the principle of equal representation, as lawyers are presently involved in these committees, representing the associations and football players of SUPERLEAGUE, FOTBALL LEAGUE, PSAT, which is prerequisites for the global and European football confederacy. It is noted that, as a national federation, the SWR participates in the global and European football federations - FIFA and UEFA - which are also private-law unions, with their own special regulations, with their own statutes, organisations involving both special clubs and national groups of member countries. The participation of a federation in these associations is of the character of a quasi-convention of accession to their regulations, while violations or non-compliance with these regulations have the effect of imposing penalties on the part of the confederations, which have even been expelled from the national confederations. This has very great economic but also national consequences. Mr. Kontonis, if he really wanted to cut into the football field and clean him up, could this bill dare to change, for example, the election system of the OSH, where there is this pan-European peculiarity: It is a pan-European federation that its board of directors is elected by the presidents of the football union of each law and not directly from the associations that make up it. In other words, the board of directors is elected by fifty two people, not by hundreds of unions, by its members. The Board of Directors shall then select the members who shall set up the various committees. That's all I had to make clear. I just want to say two things. [[XS]] [[SO]] With Article 1, Mr. Kontonis makes himself a State Secretary with responsibility not only as a minister but also as a supreme judge, since he is, of course, imposing fines even on the media of mass information. As we had at ERT the Minister of the Canalarch, we have the Minister of Justice and indeed the super-judgmenter. I would like to say about the fan clubs that they are already on the table. There is no fundamental reform under this arrangement, but it is legislation that they should operate legally on the name, non-suspension and conversion of the sentence, as the representative of the prosecutors has said to the Commission. It had previously been implemented on the subject of violence. On the stadiums there have been problems, many young people have ended up in prison, while others have been acquitted, and it should not be, because it is difficult to decide to get someone imprisoned for this crime. However, there are many examples from international practice of how to deal with this issue. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] Also, forgive me, I didn't hear, will the judges finally get paid for in tickets? That's what wasn't clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u468	No, that's not true. After all, we have said it won't apply for two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u469	Is he finally retired? Okay, fine, it's clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u470	My colleague, George Panzas, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of fanatic violence and its treatment should unite rather than divide. That's for everything that's been heard so far. It is a phenomenon with global dimensions which, unfortunately, even takes place in the most advanced and organised states, even in countries where education and sporting education for young people are a priority of the social state. But here, in our country, the country of memorials, social controversies, social automation, is a time bomb ready to explode. The stadiums and stadiums that gather large folk masses have turned into arenas, which live inside and outside of them and reigns a side and parasitic system of lawlessness. I mean, arenes with organized armies inside and outside. So what happens in that country and we have not managed to limit the phenomenon? Why, while the state passed laws and even dragon decades now, they have never been implemented? Why, while in other countries - European and non - are we seeing families on the stadiums enjoying a fight, they are not even going outside the stadiums? The explanation is simple: The mutual service of the two players, on the one hand, of the big businessmen who, with the help of the old two-party have invested in impoverishment, poverty, tolerance and fear, in order for the backs of a sport club to pass its economic interests and, on the other, the policy that the court itself has seen as a spiral of real social conflicts and the field of expulsion of popular anger, in order to strengthen the tough system of customer relations created by it. So we need a great deal of intensive effort from everyone to tackle the violence. It requires the participation of all areas of an organised rule of law. I mean, she needs boldness for a break. So the government and the ministry are making the beginning. It takes a first step in this direction with this bill, a courageous and substantial step, with severe penalties and high administrative fines for those involved in violence. It ends the collective and vague responsibility it acted as a tool to cover criminal offences, contrary to what was heard by previous speakers. The responsibility shall be personified and each shall assume their responsibilities. From now on the fan world will know who committed what, but also who imposed any penalty or fine. [[OR]] [[XS]] The Minister responsible for sport shall be responsible for the imposition of these fines. I am sure that this regulation ensures the continuity of the procedure, since no Minister will want to derogate from the legislation, because he will know that if he does so, he will be given responsibility. So it ends in 'I didn't see, I didn't hear, it's not my responsibility'. Everyone assumes their responsibilities. It puts an end to the immunity of the famous autonomy of the NDP, but without prejudice to the self-interest and the organization of sport on the basis of the regulations of the international and European federations. No NPV, no sports federation will be an island in the ocean against the Constitution and the laws, in particular with regard to Article 15. I am addressing both opposition and coup d'état. The Greek Government and the Minister responsible have consulted and discussed an open line with UEFA and FIFA. The most important issues have been agreed and put to the law. There is therefore no risk of the Greek groups being expelled, as many were at risk. Well, well, we all have to consent to it and go further. The bill puts barriers to the climate of acidification, a climate that is feedbacked by sports newspapers, sports radio stations and administrations. It combines the landscape that has been created with fanatical group organizations. However, the most important thing that this bill makes is the message that goes through regarding the will of the Ministry and the Government for no tolerance to lawlessness and any crime. I close with this: The bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a challenge for all of us. It raises the bar and sets before the responsibilities first - first the state itself. It is in the hands of all the bodies involved that this bill should succeed in its implementation. That's the big bet. We must support the efforts of the Minister, because sporting violence concerns all of us and everyone separately. It concerns our youth, society, sport itself as good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Maria Triantafel from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr President. Before we begin to talk about the bill, I would like to refer to a few points, glossing what was heard in the debate. Firstly, it was heard once again that this was a 'January' government, a two-faced government, but also the multiple voices that are always heard in SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, in SYRIZA, it has not hit an impunity. There is democracy, but there is collective implementation of collective decisions. Secondly, regarding the negotiation, there is a government that was recently elected. There's a lot of explanations. Everyone gives their own version - logical - of what this people's mandate means. However, it is certain that the Government cannot vote for measures that were voted against by the Greek people on 25 January 2015. Thirdly, whether we have taken a stand on fascism, indeed all the wings of the House are taken up and must take their place. But I think we should take a position, say, on imperialism, which in a number of 'democratic' invasions triggers fascism. These are invasions in a number of sovereign countries and violent border change. First the imperialist attacks and then sympathy, activists and NGOs to the suffering peoples! Finally, for the masturbations that have been heard, I fully agree that none of us can use masturbations and no one can use masturbations when they cannot make connections and amend things. And that, believe me, is a hard self-critic. [[GA]] [[OR]] As far as the bill is concerned, the need to treat or at least to mitigate violence that has recently occurred is the cause of this bill. And here comes this bill to put its stone in the effort to restore the law, which is a palatial demand, in the view that plausibility should not be tolerated. Sport as a social asset, and indeed a constitutionalally guaranteed one, which every citizen should enjoy in terms of health, socialism, but also in terms of integrating democratic processes into the collectives of the groups, as well as the rules and their co-ordination, has now changed. It is a greenhouse of corruption, violence, economic competition, customer relations, a nursery developing phenomena of racism and determination, phenomena of disparities between the strong and the weak, between the centre and the periphery, doping phenomena. We have also told the Commission that it is indicative which teams are leading in international struggles and championships. We note that the more popular sport is - for example, football, which has a very dynamic influence on the world and on the people's feeling - the greater the phenomenon of violence. It is well served - and rightly so, in my view - as a cause of these morbid and dangerous phenomena the commercialisation of sport and football, of course. The more commercialization is becoming, the less the identifiable concepts of sport, noble speech, collectiveness, transparency and democratic function. The neoliberal model of traded sport was supported by a legal regime - not only at European, but also at supranational level - which, on the one hand, liberated the sport market and, on the other, organized international games, but also national championships so as to fit and participate few and certainly economically powerful. In this context there is the bet, in whatever form, lending players, economic lawlessness and much more. The criticism that the bill does not touch the causes of the phenomenon is correct, but we all understand how difficult and not painless it is to deal with the consequences. And that is because there will be a direct controversy with progeny and arbitrariness. Apart from the fact that, in my view, there is a need for a broad debate on professional sport to assess its role, its economics, anything and not only in the Western world, not just in capitalism, but also in which it worked - if it worked differently - and then to talk about possible ways of transition, I will stand up to the very draft law based on its aim, in particular, on urgent measures to tackle violence. Its main points are the tightening up of administrative sanctions to sporting anonymous companies, which do not contribute to the treatment of violence, with the fines imposed, it is more severe, if necessary, by postponing matches. It also includes the use of cameras and an electronic ticket, as a prerequisite for participation of teams in professional championships. These are measures that had been legislated in the past. The notified difference, however, is now that sanctions are imposed in the bill, i.e. the fields are not licensed if their establishment is not completed and they are not guaranteed to function. Money sentences are imposed on SMEs that are or are subject to violence. It also shields and strengthens a legislative framework, in order to address the phenomenon of recruitment, that is, fans and hosts by sports anonymous companies. It is necessary to operate the legality by prohibiting the making available of tickets, as well as the ban on the operation and accommodation of fast-track fans when they do not operate under the legal regime. Provision is made for the submission of a statement of property status of arbitrators, arbitrators and U.S. observers to the Committee on Professional Sports. It is a very important point of intervention in terms of sporting justice that football disciplinary and judicial bodies are being reconstructed, now made up of ordinary judges. I read in the legislation that has now come to us that their term of office is three years and there is no possibility of renewal. I think we need to see as best insurance valves as possible to prevent misery. A number of objections have been raised by other colleagues. And of course I must say that because I am personally ideologically and politically in the view of centralising the planning and implementation of the issues of education, health, sport, etc., I think we should insist on that. [[SM]] [[GA]] Despite the different ideological viewpoint, origin and expression of each of us, I really think that today's bill should be supported. It's not easy to say about all the bills. It's not easy to say about the majority of the legislation. I think, however, that supporting the legislation is necessary, because it can put a brake not only on violence, but rather be the beginning, a first brake on what we call 'bizna' in the field of sport. And I think it is time for citizens to be immersed through sport in social virtues, collectiveness and above all in democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague from SYRIZA Mr. Kritsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u475	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are today in the presence of a bill which is somewhat out of the nature and the way in which we have discussed the other bills so far in this plenary Chamber. We see the opposition, but also the media and the rotten establishment that has been speculating for decades in sport trying to deal with this government initiative in a common way. On the one hand, with mocking and deception that everything is supposed to be useless and we have heard it before, and on the other hand, by cultivating a climate of fear and terror, effectively identifying the actions of resolute sport and football by marginalising the country from the international map. Known and familiar, maybe all this is expected. But here, we are all being called upon to discuss and place ourselves openly, in the first place, because the position that Parliament must take must be clear about a triangle of interacting, corruption, illegality between the state, the big players of football and illegal economic activities. Do we want the illegal gambling and the setting-up of the games? Do we want everything to work for the bet? Do we want everything to be commercialized? Do we want to say a few words about the neoliberal version, which has also been transferred to football, so that what we have heard many times about sport - particularly football if you like - I am a society and I look to you? We do not want, we say, everyone, but we see that we are not all together in the debate, but much more in the implementation. Do we want the stadium to be in principle a public place that is guarded not by the fan movement, but by private armies and turned into a field of prostitution and combat with victims? That's what we have to be unresolved about. The state must intervene drastically at any cost, at any political cost. And in a marginal situation that everyone knew so far, but they were trying to spend on it by sanctifications and greetings, they must each take responsibility. The administrations of the clubs are responsible for the association's links with the organizers or to the arbitrators. It is not possible for society to discuss controlled armies and every three years to erupt a new settling scandal and we to hide behind serious - perhaps - arguments. Do the competent bodies and bodies have responsibility for non-compliance with rules and laws? We say they do. The state of professional sport proves the failure of a tactical that was behind such minds as the self-employed, to dismiss its responsibilities. Now the self-interest sometimes becomes autonomous and separatist, but it also has responsibility for the media system. Consider whether there are other programmes of an information nature where an appointment for wood is given between people who have political or even ideological differences. And does the state have a responsibility? It does. The previous governments will be judged both in the process of clearing up sport and today's political will to demonstrate, and I believe it will be demonstrated. I would just point out a few points in the bill: the first three articles tighten sanctions to associations of anonymous companies, associations and media which, as moral experts, are pushing for violent or racist events, clubs that refuse to comply with the obligation to provide an electronic ticket - another measure established and chronic demand from all who have not been implemented solely on account of political reluctance - and links that do not work legally, because something illegal is in their minds. [[AR]] [[SM]] Take note, however, of these penalties, from large fines to interrupting or suspending racing or even revoking licences, must be implemented. The bill says that they will be implemented, the Minister says they will be implemented, but we must look at it. And even more every blow to this establishment will actually feed every man's right to sport. Amounts collected from fines will be allocated to enhance amateur sport and sports education. In Article 6 and 7, the bill attempts to hit the stage of the games directly. On the one hand through the control and notification by the Committee for Professional Sports of the property of arbitrators, arbitrators and arbitrators, on the other hand through the notification to the relevant Minister and the Committee of Professional Sports of the International Institutions' reports on suspected matches, in or out of import, but also the removal of suspicious groups from betting coupons. All this, Mr Minister, but now, today, the investigation into the criminal organisation in the football field is the subject of stationed toys. We now see this in the newspapers and in the headlines. So there seems to be a criminal organization. As things show, the investigation is progressing, but what about the stationed toys if the teams setting up toys are not punished, and indeed in a championship of virtually zero credibility? Along with the pods we have and the departures of two teams from the championship that means sharing to some degrees that can have a nine-point difference from one to the other. We also have those who win some matches in some other ways described in the criminal organization investigation. I'm going to tell you that six or even nine degrees have won and some have lost. And I'll say, what's EPA doing? And you'll tell me, the NCA has the self-employed. What does the state do, though, what does the Ministry do? Because, since it is blind, deaf and distanced, the Ministry must take responsibility and take responsibility, but it must do so. What does the Committee on Professional Sport do? Is there? And if there is, why is it that only on emissions comes out and says and doesn't open the drawers and doesn't start the procedures? Because the championship will soon be over and someone will sign validation and closure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, if it's easy, I ask for your tolerance for a minute. This must not be done. 'Cause if this closes, it's sports business. And that'll be an adjunct if you want. And it goes beyond the case and the bill is good, but reality goes ahead without taking it into account. So let the drawers be opened. The Minister must check, push and activate them. And it says this whole society, even the most fanatical, even those who are not fans, but followers. Especially in Heraklion - and I shall mention this, Mr Minister - it sounds more like the fact that Heraklion had two teams, namely Ergotel and OFHI or OFHI and Ergotel in the first national championship, and there is the belief, not only that, not by objective criteria, both of these teams are outside and that this place is not represented. Ladies and gentlemen, each of us can think of the political position of sport in general, and especially of the individual. But the issues of combating violence, racism, corruption and immunity in football must be found together. And I think that, despite the differences that exist today in the Chamber, there can be a resounding and coordinated effort, since there is the will of the government and of that ministry and Minister, Mr Kontonis, to move forward. But a prerequisite is - and I am ending this, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance - to start now not tomorrow and not to close the championship before measures are taken. That is what I think will be a fountain of stone and a basic criterion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Theochari, wait a minute. The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has asked for the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u477	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very soon, the government has confirmed us, Mr President, and I can assure you that Mr Tsakalotos has not been able to give us any "snake" because he was entering the Chamber at the time of our prototype. We were confirmed by Mr Juncker's joint statement with Mr Tsipras, published shortly later. What does it say in this joint statement? It says that there was a record of the progress made in the talks between Greece and partners on the issue of the analytical package of reforms in order to successfully complete the evaluation. Mr President, the assessment, in the government's view, was not abolished together with the Troika and the Memorandums? It seems that it has not been abolished, just like other things have not been abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u478	Fifth evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u479	In this respect, particular reference was made to pensions and the labour market. So the red lines faded and became pink. So overturns in insurance continue, in the name of sustainability. Each time the viability of the insurance was the pretext, the vehicle to pass on new reinsurance measures. So in this name we will have new reductions in pensions and increases in pension thresholds. As a result, insurance reform is being carried out not to improve the status of retired persons, but as stated in the statement to avoid poverty in the third age. So, what are you gonna do? A net of protection against poverty, such as the so-called 'national pension' of EUR 360. As far as the labour market is concerned, the whole debate is not about restoring the losses from the memoranda, not about taking back the overturns made in industrial relations and collective agreements, but about moving on exactly the same route. What do you mean, what do you mean? To create a modern and efficient system that guarantees competitiveness and meets the highest European standards, i.e. continue on the same line of labour market reforms to shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. Therefore, Mr President, the agreement that emerged will bring about a new anti-grassroots memorial. So no illusions. Today we must organize the struggle of the people, the popular counter-attack, aimed at the real adversary, namely capital, the European Union and the governments that serve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Theocharis Theocharis from 'The River' has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr President. I was very sad to see the Minister responsible, Mr. Kononis, taking a turn of eighty degrees, and while he began with dreams, which proved to be mad and deceptive, to strike violence on the ground and to have the possibility of actually punishing the groups, to force them to comply with the anti-violence actions and to play an active role in fighting it, so instead of doing so, he may leave them to continue the past practices, as in some cases even to encourage violence. So, with great regret, I watched Mr. Nearly succumbing. He succumbed to hearing the voices he was told to be headed by the three institutions, FIFA, UEFA, FIBA, not to do unilateral actions, to do what the conquerors ask him to do, to make Greek sport protectorate, to continue to subject the country to not even a memorandum, but to the statute of the three institutions. With national domination devastated, Mr. Kontonis even held meetings with technical staircases. Listen up! He gave them all the information they asked for, in a spirit of cooperation, the bill sent them, made changes in advance to thank them, but still no matter what he did, it wasn't enough for them. [[PE]] [[CB]] The institutions, loyal to football and basketball neoliberalism and to the new international sporting order of things, insisted on safeguarding their immunity and removing any means that the sovereign people, through their Minister, would have at their disposal to combat violence. In a move made, to morally hit this government, they sent a letter asking for specific changes and deletions from the articles of the bill of the sovereign Greek people - in Article 1, first and third sentences and in Article 5, paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 - and adding a new article to the bill, which was forced to translate from the English that sent it to them. In English, the new article! In fact, the institutions also notified it to the opposition parties, violating the ethics of the negotiations. Incomprehensible things have never happened before! For the truth, I submit to you in Greek and English the letters of the institutions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theocharis Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Kontonis leaned on his head and with him was headed by the Congressmen, the Greek Parliament and the Greek people, in whose name you negotiate, gentlemen of the government, so hard. He forgot his sports program, SYRIZA, about violence, this costly sport saving program, and implements foreign policies dictated. It is a black day for SYRIZA - ANEL and it is a black day for the Greek Parliament! We are calling at the very last moment, and it has happened - fortunately! - to be in Athens and Mr Varoufakis, who returned from Paris and Mr. Tsakalos and Drasakis respectively from Berlin, to hold an immediate meeting with the Minister, Mr Kontonis and the financial staff, to be informed of the techniques we have with the other institutions, so that we can have similar successes here, such as the ones we have with the other institutions in the economic field. It is a pity that this know-how is not fully exploited by the entire government. It's a shame to live in the Treasury. But hold on to this, ladies and gentlemen of the co-government. Mrs Valavani gives tobacco-industrial owners 20 million with the arrangements she has had with you. Mr. Kontonis stayed with the crowns in his hand, not because he could not mess with the international institutions, but because he could not harm the interests of the Greek owners of PAE and OEM. It is not a question of joy given by the national groups, as he has told us in his prototype. And then you want to convince us that you want and you can smuggle it into cigarettes, drinks or fuels, big-grower, smuggling in Greece that has its money abroad, thief and socket? But when the risk is not to pay wages and pensions for one or more months, the government can play it comfortably hard and unstoppable. There's no problem. When it's for the 700 euro pensioner, he's not afraid at all. If you don't get serious immediately, if you don't stop mocking, if you don't really negotiate and not through non papers, the evil that will be done to you and find us will be unspeakable. And it's all your fault! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u484	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u485	Mr President, I was impressed by the aggressive speech made by the previous speaker. And I was surprised, because I have not understood what our colleague is proposing. Does it propose that we do not come to an agreement and negotiate with the international federations? Because I had understood other things in the Commission that his party proposed to us. In the Commission, you have proposed not only to come into consultation but also to follow what we are to be told, because otherwise the Greek teams will find themselves outside the European Championships. [[PH]] [[PE]] I would remind you that in the Commission, Mr Theochra, in other words your party, you have reserved for certain articles, precisely because the position of the International Confederals was not clear. So today that the government has completed a cycle of consultation, which has made these concessions that it thinks they do not affect the core of the bill, will you come and tell us in plenary that we should not have these negotiations? Shouldn't we detect the possibility of an agreement? Because I tell you that this document, which you have tabled and which has come to all parties, has indeed been sent to us, with their specific views. That was their point of view. But from what you have seen from this document and after the agreement we have had, we have brought something else before the National Delegation. Therefore, we, Mr Theochari, did not follow their instructions and deletions, but we discussed with them the proposal they put forward. I do not hide from you that I am surprised, not only with what you are saying today, because other things I had taken as your party's point of view, but I am also surprised by a document that has been moved over the last few hours, which says that we, despite the debate that took place in Geneva two days ago, and despite the fact that what I mentioned to you was agreed, want to follow the document that they had sent out blindly. So I tell you, Mr Theochari, that the Greek Government is not going to follow this line. So it's not a black day. We have exhausted the margins and I think we have exhausted them in good faith. But we are in the face of a situation which is not an interpretable situation. Because the proposal which I have brought to you here today, we had agreed on all points with the representatives of the federations. I'm not saying anything against you, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u486	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u487	Firstly, we have consulted and consulted publicly and openly all the issues raised by the International Federations. Secondly, we have exhausted every margin of agreement with what we have proposed today. And thirdly, can you finally tell us, do you want to consult or do you not want to? Do you want to have a deal or don't you want to? Because as I understand it, you told the Commission that it is right to listen to the International Federations and take their views seriously so that we do not have any exclusions, and here we are told that we have fallen our heads. Mr. Theocharis, I honestly did not expect you to do so, not only because you are a man who moves within the framework of decency, but also because you have nursed the previous government from a responsible position, which you know very well what is going on and you are part of that problem. Well, please very much, at least such positions, which are totally in contradiction with what your party had said, would be better bypassing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u488	Mr. Contony, you do not understand a delicate irony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, since he has commented on me, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u490	Mr. Theochari, wait a minute. Confrontation of this type is not going to allow and I will tell you what I mean. You spoke before as a member of the Greek Parliament and expressed your personal views from Steps. You have not spoken as a Parliamentary Representative of the River. In this sense, the Minister should have noticed, because he did not have to comment on the opinion of a Member. That is why I will not give you the floor, Mr Theochari. Because there is no discussion with the Minister each individual Member cannot do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u491	Yes, but he commented on me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u492	Please. We have fully respected, as President and as a Parliament, the views you have expressed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u493	Yes, but he referred to me personally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u494	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u495	I didn't mean to talk, Mr. President. Just because he commented on me, I ask for the floor. I only need thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u496	Excuse me, can you not talk to me to tell me what I want? I say, therefore, that you have expressed interest in the Step, but in person. In that sense, I say, the Minister should be more careful too. The Minister does not comment on the views of each Member. That's why I was going to tell you not to answer so you don't have a reply and we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u497	I will not answer that, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u498	Good, thank you very much. You have the floor for thirty seconds so they don't think I don't want you to have a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u499	In fact, Mr President, I would like to give an explanation to solve a misunderstanding. I have no intention of explaining my speech because it actually destroys the reason for its existence. I think the Greek people who followed her, understood her. And I'm sure the Minister understood it, even if for his own reasons he wants to show he didn't understand. I will only be content with this: If you follow my advice and have this conversation with the financial staff, Minister, in addition to the advice you will receive, give any advice to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Stylos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u501	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill of the Ministry of Sports: 'Extensive measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions'. The title is communication, general, and refers to something direct and effective. The contents, however, are generally related to Greek football. The question arises as to whether a proper procedure has been followed by the Government. The issue is important and burning. Has the political parties, the bodies of Greek sport, and in particular football, sought to reach a wider consensus? Have the positions and views of the International Sports Federations UEFA and FIFA been taken into account? Has the experience of advanced football and sports countries been used? Ladies and gentlemen, from the evolution of the debate in the relevant parliamentary committee, the hearing of bodies and press releases shows that the government has been raped. A pretext procedure was followed for the main purpose of impressing rather than the substance. It's a turbulence. The bill creates more topics than it is trying to solve. In the news, Greek teams, particularly football teams, were at risk, with the exclusion of international organizations. The expression 'GREXIT of the Greek groups' and not the treatment of violence has been dominated. Therefore, public opinion has received another issue than the draft law seeks. Did you miss it or did you have any feasibility? Ladies and gentlemen, violence is a global phenomenon and has become a tragic scourge with wider social dimension. It is an issue that his approach must and can find all political but also sports forces united. Violence is a wound to football and must be tackled radically. Any new legislation that tightens the rules and normalizes the situation is in the right direction. The anti-violence laws have also been introduced in the past. However, it is a question of applying them. I remind you of the institutional initiatives of the former Deputy Sports Secretary George Orphanou under Laws 3262/2004, 3372/2005, 3479/2006. A more stringent institutional framework has been pursued with the mentioned laws, as well as a framework of measures with preventive and repressive content. I would mention to you some of these measures: support and enrichment of the composition of the IAEA, the establishment of the sporting prosecutor and the award of justice through the introduction of regular judges on top of a draw, the independence of arbitration, the introduction of the individual nominal ticket, the electronic monitoring of racing spaces on the country's platforms, the electronic centralised control and identification of the essence of the fan, the issue of dealing with the links and replacing them by fan clubs with the approval of the ODPs, as well as the issue of registration, but also the movement of organised fans, with the assistance of the Personal Data Protection Authority, the taking of responsibility, security and security of racing spaces by the ODPs themselves, the establishment of the Race Security Officer and other measures. [[LA]] [[IK]] This policy, which has been implemented, has been effective. It was a policy that set order in the space and contributed to a marked reduction in the incidents and the phenomenon of violence. Minister, it is good that with this bill you are trying to modernise, implement and expand provisions, such as the online ticket and fan clubs. I referred to the Commission in the provision on administrative penalties. It's wrong. I believe that an institutional collective body should impose penalties and not only one person and, above all, a political person, such as a Minister. I have also referred to the regulation on the closure of the organisation. Yes, a sentence must be imposed on the person causing violence or on his team. The previous government and the State Secretary responsible, Mr Andrianos, had, after extensive consultation, a draft law on sport in Parliament. We expect this draft law to be used by the Ministry's new political leadership. Ladies and gentlemen, any change needs political courage and, of course, consensus on key issues. Every government's will and work must be to combat and deal with the phenomena of violence affecting football and any sporting organisation. It needs determination and dynamism. It requires a clear political will and a spirit of cooperation with the institutions of sport, FIFA and UEFA. We will be firmly allies in trying to eliminate a phenomenon which does not correspond to an organised society and has nothing to do with sporting ideals and euphemism and, above all, it is only a weapon for the enemies of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a few questions: what makes Greek football better with the provisions of the bill? Does it have as a criterion the progress of the clubs? Does it have as a criterion the progress of Greek footballers? Is it improving the climate for attracting private investment in football? Does it create new institutions, such as the Superleague or Football League that was created in previous years? What does this bill really improve? There are certainly problems and issues to be corrected. But what exactly does it mention and what does it correct? If we want to be honest and clear, the problem of our football is the conflict of business interests that is taking place in it. Everyone knows that revenue and, above all, revenue from European organisations are very large. This problem is not dealt with in this bill. Undoubtedly, in recent years - and until the emergence of the economic crisis - Greek football has made great leaps forward and has offered joy and excitement to all of us. Who doesn't remember the conquest of the European from our country in 2014? Who forgets participation and qualification in the final phases of world and European championships? These victories have ranked our national team at the first tens worldwide, over major world football powers over the last decade. Minister, don't shoot football. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u502	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the climate of consensus at the end of the procedures of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, it is impressive what is happening today. Some aspects of counter-population appear to be champions of the break with sports institutions, when in the Commission all positions, from the beginning to the end, were in the direction of doing everything possible by the Minister to avoid sports Grexit. In this spirit, the speeches of all three parties in the internal troika were perpetuated. Today I was amazed at the intensity of Mr Theocharis' speech, which first and foremost called on the Minister to cast the sports country on the rocks in his own expression. Let it be. Is there any of these, ladies and gentlemen, who believe that the Greek football championship has a trace of credibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u504	Change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u505	I imagine that even those who are little involved in the space will respond negatively to the question. So we're going to the second rhetorical question in a row: does any of them also think that the Board of Directors of the NCA is unresponsible for this situation? If one finds one responding positively, I think he deserves to win a lottery. However, because that is not the case, the vast majority of the fans are of the opinion, something has to be done. At the same time, this means that the efforts so far - and the previous colleague mentioned the series of laws that have been voted on at times - have not been passed on. Therefore, the Greek state and the current government had to do something, much more so that, at the beginning of almost her term, she was faced with acute and intense episodes within and outside sports spaces. From other aspects of counter-population, this whole quarter has been critical: we cannot have many disagreements with the bills you bring - and this bill is about the same - but we disagree and blame you for what you do not have to deal with. That is to say, the view that, in a bill of any sector, all the issues that concern this sector must be dealt with. The question arises: If all matters are dealt with by the government within four months, what will it do in the rest of the time? Is he going to ride to the House? It is clear and has been formulated many times and the Minister has also stated that this bill addresses specific and urgent issues relating to the fight against violence in sports spaces. This is not a complete sporting law and it was not, of course, this pursuit. The Minister for Sport has therefore been given the opportunity to impose administrative fines and other sanctions on natural persons and public limited companies, i.e. a weapon which the State had deported in recent years and which, in other areas of public life, the respective ministers have as a weapon: to impose administrative penalties on public limited companies in the field of the environment, tourism or elsewhere. Why should the state dismiss this right in the field of sport? But they are the disciplinary measures taken by the NUI and the organising authorities of the championships and other administrative measures which are the right of the State to exercise them. It is known that no legal person is autonomous. Like the other public limited companies, the PSOs will be controlled by the State, as is the case with the Constitution that stipulates that sport is supervised and controlled by the State, which imposes fines if it considers that the conditions of the law are met. Nor will any fight be conducted with viewers if the electronic surveillance systems and the nominal sport ticket have not been installed, so that it is known which natural person is watching every sporting race and even without an extra burden on the public beyond the number - more than ten million - already given for the installation of these systems. Of particular interest is the effort to end the immunity of the AOCs and the AACC to organise private traboo armies. In fact, Article 3 prohibits the making available of tickets to illegal associations and clubs and even for the purpose of a penalty for the members of the boards of directors of sports limited companies that violate it, but also for those who hire property in such illegal associations. Particular attention has been paid to the provision giving the relevant Minister the right to impose administrative fines on newspapers which encourage and encourage - if not even - the committing of crimes of violence in sports spaces. SYRIZA's rapporteur quoted and submitted in the minutes some titles of sports newspapers, euphemistically euphemistically. I would say that the excerpts he quoted are very careful. There's much worse, Mrs. Drittelli, than what you've testified. There are titles that openly call for crimes, titles with sexual, not insinuating, but directly insinuating, that break down every concept of what the old 'fighting' said. Should the state close its eyes to all this? Because there was also the relevant reference to the right to freedom of press, it is clear in the law - and only anyone who has not read it can claim it - that fines are imposed not on journalists, but only on the owners and publishers of these newspapers. [[IT]] [[AS]] As is particularly important for the right of the Committee on Professional Sport to remove groups of bet coupons, because it is well known to all of us that the introduction of bets has collapsed in many respects the credibility of championships and are right for fans to doubt the reliability of the outcome of any race now in the Greek Championship. Let us note that all these measures and sanctions are made after the call and hearing of those responsible at a time. They are run by a range in their scale so that the Minister can impose the corresponding fine on the basis of the gravity of the misconduct in order to respect the principle of proportionality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, the Minister who does so will also be judged as a political person for the way in which he exercises his right within the limits of the penalties laid down. Finally, we see who they are. They are mainly those who pass the gates of the inquisitor's offices accused of forming a criminal organisation, they are basically protesting. What has bothered them in particular is not that the misconducts and penalties, which many of them have already existed before. The new one is that it is predicting what consequences those who violate these provisions will have, and that is what has bothered many, particularly the big players of the ODP. And finish with the famous article 15. I will not read the entire text of the previous law that is being repealed. It says about the sport of football that they will be regulated in accordance with the statutes, the regulations of the NRA, even if different regulations are provided for in the law. 2725 and the general sporting legislation. This is abolished. Read with what it is replaced by:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u506	Mr. Colleague, let's shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u507	Thirty more seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u508	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u509	The previous ones, therefore, will be regulated in accordance with the statutes and regulations of the NRA, which must be in line with the Constitution and the existing legislation. Five dictionaries are changing, but they're completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the result of the roll-call vote. A total of 189 Members voted. Amendment 105/46: In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 153 Members voted. In other words, 30 Members voted against the amendment. 'PARON' have voted 6 MPs. Therefore, Amendment 105/46 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 122/58: In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 153 Members voted. On the amendment, i.e. 'Notice', 36 Members voted. Therefore, Amendment No 122/58 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 56/6: In the interests of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 159 Members. In other words, 30 Members voted against the amendment. So Amendment 56/6 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment 57/7: In the interests of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 159 Members. In other words, 30 Members voted against the amendment. Therefore, Amendment 57/7 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 66/14: In the interests of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 159 Members. In other words, 30 Members voted against the amendment. Therefore, Amendment No 66/14 was accepted by a majority and is part of Article 18 of the bill. Amendment No 68/16: In the interests of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 159 Members. In other words, 30 Members voted against the amendment. Therefore, Amendment No 68/16 was accepted by a majority and is part of Article 19 of the bill. Amendment 79/27: In the interests of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 159 Members. In other words, 30 Members voted against the amendment. Therefore, Amendment 79/27 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 80/28: In the interests of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 159 Members. In other words, 30 Members voted against the amendment. Therefore, Amendment No 80/28 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 81/29: In the interests of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 159 Members. In other words, 30 Members voted against the amendment. Therefore, Amendment No 81/29 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 83/31: In the interests of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 159 Members. In other words, 30 Members voted against the amendment. Therefore, Amendment No 83/31 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. [[BS]] [[AT]] Amendment No 90/37: In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 159 Members. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', they voted 30 Members. Therefore, Amendment 90/37 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 91/38: In addition to the amendment, 153 Members voted in favour. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', 36 Members voted. Therefore, Amendment No 91/38 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 111/51: In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 153 Members voted. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', they voted 30 Members. 'PARON' have voted 6 MPs. Therefore, Amendment No 111/51 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Amendment No 103/44: In addition to the amendment, 153 Members voted in favour. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', they voted 30 Members. 'PARON' have voted 6 MPs. Therefore, Amendment No 103/44 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Is the bill's office accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u511	Consequently, the bill’s office article was accepted. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction "Democratisation of Administration - Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of Jurisdiction and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle, articles and amendments, and its vote in the whole is postponed for another meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u512	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u513	I'm sorry, there are other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u514	We will then continue, incorporating into the second list the colleagues who would speak in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry's draft law 'Emergency measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u516	We, Mr President, say 'OF' in the first place. We're going to vote for some articles in the bill, because we think the basic log is good. But because we do not know what is going to happen with Articles 5 and 15, which are controversial, since they are essentially talking about justice and self-interest, we will see you in the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u519	‘PARTON’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u522	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs "Urgent measures to counter violence in sport and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-06-S1-commons.u523	With the consent of the House at the time of 19:04, the meeting for today, Wednesday, May 6, 2015 at the time of 19: 10, on the subject of continuing discussion on the principle of the law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the basis of the agenda distributed.
