ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC HORIZATION OF THE BULLETIN PLACE Debate, at the request of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House of the issues relating to the current negotiation. I would remind the House that this is a procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure, as well as the procedure for the prior agenda of the debate with which the Government guarantees the Parliament's responsible and complete information. This is the second time that we have been applying this procedure at the initiative of the Prime Minister. As provided for in Rule 142a, I was sent yesterday by the same letter asking for the plenary to be convened to inform the House of the current negotiations. As the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution require, the debate has been scheduled for today. The Conference of Presidents has been informed, which has decided and adopted a procedure similar to that which we held on 30 March, namely a full debate with a tolerance of time and not on the very suffocating margins provided for in Rule 142a. The use of this Rule of the Rules of Procedure is also a guarantee of democracy and transparency. I will give all the speakers twice as much time as the one provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that the time envisaged is for the Prime Minister ten minutes of the hour in protology, five minutes in denology and five in tritology. It will therefore be twenty, ten and ten. The Chief of Officer Response is provided for five minutes in the protology and three in the denology. That will be the case, ten and six. For the remaining political leaders, there are also five minutes of protology and three minutes of denology. The corresponding twice as much speech will be followed. It also appeared from the debate on 30 March that this was necessary. The debate is opened and the President, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for today's extraordinary debate by using an article in the Rules of Procedure, because I believe that we are now in the final straight line of the negotiation, but at the same time also at the most critical turning point. I therefore consider it necessary for this House and the political parties to be informed of the Greek people who are following us, in the most official way, about where we are, but above all where we want to go. If you wish, I understand my democratic responsibility towards the Greek Parliament and towards the parties and to the Greek people, which is why I have made it clear from the outset that in this crucial process of negotiation we have nothing to hide nor, however, to hide from the Greek people. We are negotiating for him, for his sake and with a sense of responsibility, so that we can get the best possible agreement. So we have nothing to keep secret. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first time the new Greek Government has declared to all tons that it is seeking a European solution to the Greek issue, a mutually advantageous agreement, as you will have heard, as we have already pointed out, that will remove Greek society and economy from the mainstreaming string of the last seven years, finally putting an end to austerity, restoring social justice, but also giving a real solution to the big issue, the debt issue. This overall solution to the problem, in the crisis, if you like, that has been arousing the Greek economy for the last seven years and that the years of the memorandum have passed on to the Greek people, it is precisely this European solution that we need. Not only does Greece need it, but Europe as a whole, so that it closes once and for all the dangerous crisis that began in 2008. This very solution could also mean a new era for the prospect of European unification, giving the message that united Europe and its common currency are historical signs of non-return and, of course, that the strategy of the European states participating in this experiment is a united and indivisible one. These clear and fundamental positions have served throughout the long and dense period of political and technical negotiations, at the Eurogroup, in discussions with the political leaders and the leaders of the institutions, but also at the technical level, at which the negotiations were held until the day before yesterday, i.e. at the level of the so-called Brussels Group, the Brussels Group. This commitment and commitment to the European idea proved in practice by tabling a comprehensive and comprehensive proposal - the basis for an agreement to the institutions and European political leadership last week. This proposal was our pragmatic and honest mood for a compromise, and - and I would like to stress this - it did not itself capture the positions of the Greek Government, attempted to reflect the results of the negotiations in the Brussels Group, in short, their common place during three months of harsh and painful negotiations. And in that sense, it was a clear demonstration of our respect for both the negotiation procedures and our interlocutors. This proposal is, to date, the only realistic basis for discussion in order to achieve an agreement that respects both the people's mandate of 25 January, but also the common rules governing monetary union. The main feature of this proposal is the reduction of primary surpluses, a reduction that the institutions now accept, because the high primary surpluses included in the previous programme are in fact the other name of austerity. However, this proposal is only a basis for discussion as a single set. This means that some difficult interventions described in this proposal are binding on the Greek Government and will only be implemented on one condition, that there will be an overall agreement - a solution for Greece, namely that the shadow theatre of the last five years will not continue, which has exacerbated rather than solved the debt problem and at the same time exacerbated the country's prospects of exit from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not fool ourselves, the crucial element of the negotiation is not only the mix of reforms that the partners require to close the programme. The crucial thing is to stop the vicious cycle of self-supported crisis. And that can only be achieved by changing the unsuccessful recipe and ending the harsh austerity that is a recession, but of course that is not enough. It must also be done in conjunction with an essential solution to the problem of the sustainability of the Greek public debt. Because - bad lies - only in this way could the Greek economy become a safe place for investors and markets again. The Greek Government's overall reform effort to implement also requires a substantial solution to the debt problem, a substantial solution and not a mere reference of a promise to a Eurogroup decision, such as this statement of promise that was never realised in the November Eurogroup decision, December 2012, because otherwise, as many attempts to do, we will not be able to escape the vicious cycle of uncertainty, which is the main obstacle to the growth of the Greek economy. I am sure that no one in Europe wants to prolong the uncertainty. No one wants us to continue to walk on a stretched cord of an ever-increasing danger, which often works as self-confirmed prophecy. No one except perhaps some who may have a division strategy. I want to believe, however, that these are minority voices. If that is the case, then the national objective for an agreement can only be the primary criterion not so much the political management of the agreement, but its economic viability. That is why I have often stressed that we do not just need an agreement. We need a solution. After five years we need a definitive solution for both Greece and Europe, a solution that will definitively end the debate on Greece's exit from the Eurozone, which works many times as self-confirmed crisis prophecy, a solution which will put an end to the unsuccessful policy of unrealistic and unrealistic surpluses and austerity, while at the same time ensuring the sustainability of the Greek debt. This, if you like, is the main problem of negotiating today, as the austerity imposed to ensure the repayment of an unsustainable debt was the core of a failed five-year memorandum policy. And failure is not a shape of speech. It is now recognized throughout the world by the vast majority of both intellectuals, economists and political leaders, but, above all, public opinion. This is not only about the rejection by the Greek people in recent elections. It is mainly reflected in the indicators of debt and social inequalities, but also in the indicators of economic competitiveness, which, despite optimistic forecasts, has never recovered in the past five years with the programmes of hard internal devaluation. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I must confess before you and before the Greek people, with the truth that the suggestion made by President Juncker, on behalf of the three institutions, was surprising to me in Brussels the day before yesterday. I could never imagine that they would give us a proposal that would not take any account of its common territory for a period of three months at the Brussels Groups. I could not imagine that the Greek Government's sincere effort to make an honest and comprehensive solution from some would be seen as weakness. Most importantly, however, I could not imagine that politicians, rather than technocrats, could not understand that, after five catastrophic years of the harsh austerity of the memorandum, a Greek Member could find himself voting in this Chamber to abolish the CSCE, that is, this small allowance for the low-retired, or an increase of ten points in electricity VAT. I do not think there could be a Greek Member who voted for these. And if I'm wrong, let me be disobeyed. Unfortunately, the proposals put forward by the institutions are clearly unrealistic and are backwards in relation to the common ground that has been built - with great difficulty to say - during the negotiations. It is clear that the Greek Government can in no way consent to irrational proposals through which what is won, from the end of austerity with the low primary surpluses, returns from the window with extermination measures to the low pensioners and to the middle of the Greek family. I would like to believe that this proposal has been a bad time for Europe or even a bad negotiating trick and will very soon be withdrawn from its own inspirations. I consider it my duty, however, before making the final decisions on the official responses to the institutions, to listen carefully to the parties' opinion at this crucial moment for the country. Essential responsibility is obviously due to the government, but today I would also like to hear the opinion of the Opposition, with a sense of patriotic responsibility and hand to the heart, if you ask us to accept the proposal put forward by the three institutions or if you are against it. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This is because, throughout the past period, you have strongly criticised the government and, of course, we welcome the criticism, because it is the quintusia of democracy. You have, therefore, done a great deal of criticism because we do not sign the agreement and time passes. Now that you know exactly what they are asking us to sign, I urge you to clarify whether you accept or reject the proposed agreement. But it is not just the absurd proposals in the recent text that are a bad time for Europe. On the other hand, it is not only the Greek Government's realistic proposal that demonstrates its commitment to the European perspective, but also in terms of parity and solidarity. I would like to remind you at this point that, once we have taken over governance, we have served external obligations of around EUR 7.5 billion, despite the financial strangulation chosen as a negotiating tactic by the institutions. Since June 2014, I would like to remind you that no instalment has been disbursed from the financial programme, while since 18 February there has been a limitation by the European Central Bank on issues of interest stamps that no longer have any legal basis, since the validity of the loan contract has been extended and the country has been in the process of negotiating in a programme. This is no longer just a legal issue, not even a political issue. The financial strangulation of a country is now also a question of moral order conflicting with fundamental principles, the founding principles of Europe, which raises a reasonable question for Europe's own future. I am sure there will not be many who in Europe are proud of this tactic. It is therefore time for all of us to prove both to Greece, but, above all, in Europe, they are working to find a solution and not to subjugate and humiliate an entire people. Because then - if they work to humiliate or subdue - to know that they will have the exact opposite results. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not a threat, but simply a finding that no one needs to study the opinion polls in order to understand it. As long as he speaks with the people around him in every town, in every square, in every workplace, in every group of Greeks - larger and younger - who with anggression these days discuss the developments and ask us, if you want, one thing: not to retreat from our fair demands, not to give in to the irrational and blackmailing demands of the lenders. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You will ask me, however, perhaps quite rightly, ladies and gentlemen: are we finally close to reaching a sustainable agreement? I'll respond honestly and manually to the heart. Despite the great return of the day before yesterday, my conviction is that we are now closer than ever and I will explain why. Firstly, because it is now clear to the European and world public that the Greek side has proposed a realistic framework for a solution and is not standing intransigently and indifferently against the needs of the other partners, the rules governing monetary union and those of the public opinion of other countries - members of the European Union - are calling on their countries. Secondly - and perhaps more importantly - because despite the opposite predictions and the adverse conditions of recent months, we have endured and insisted on negotiating upright and safely for the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And now, after yesterday's decision of the Fund to transfer payments to the International Monetary Fund at the end of the month, it is now clear to everyone and they all understand - first and foremost, the markets themselves - that nobody wants to break. And time is no longer just shortened for us, it is shortened for everyone. So let us not hurry some to prejudge developments and draw conclusions. The realistic approach of the Greek side is the only serious negotiating line to go to a sustainable agreement. The more it becomes clear that the Greek issue is not isolated, but it is about the whole of the Eurozone and its prospects, the more clearly it is about the future and the prospect of the global economy, the more our partners will grow and our chances of joining the realism and the realistic positions that the Greek side has put forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by congratulating the Greek Government's strategic pursuit in the ongoing negotiations. Firstly, low primary surpluses already accepted and already reduced costs - the account - for the Greek people by 8 billion for the next year and a half and by 14 billion in five years. Secondly, impairment, debt restructuring, a solution to the debt issue. Thirdly, protection of pensions and real wages. Fourthly, redistribution of incomes for the benefit of the social majority. Because, of course, there will have to be an increase in revenue. The question is who will continue to pay the burdens, low and medium-incomes or those who have high incomes, but, above all, those who have not paid part in the last five years did not pay for the crisis? Fifthly, the reintroduction of collective bargaining and the reversal of the path of deregulation of labour relations which, in our view, was a basic ideological fortress in the Memorandum Policy. I can tell you that in consultation with the ILO, the International Labour Organisation, which has gone on, we will be able in the next few days to present the final proposal, which will come to legislation in the Greek Parliament, which is sovereign and will legislate to restore collective agreements in the country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Sixth, what it needs is a powerful investment project that will create a positive shock in the Greek economy, mobilizing its lake potential. These six main axes are for us that can govern, to sum up the prospect of a economically viable and socially fair agreement. Our efforts, obviously - there is no doubt about that - will be judged by the result. The result will obviously be more positive the stronger the Greek people's will to support the national negotiating line. This titanium of the Greek Government is a fair and sustainable solution. But it is certain that in the next few days and as long as we enter the final straight, a lot will be heard. However, it needs cooling, prudence, soundness, social and political support for achieving the national objective, for the best possible outcome. If you wish, now is the time for all, of course, the government, but also for all parties, for opposition. I therefore urge you to give your sincere support to the national effort, leaving aside these critical moments the line of feasibility and riskology. Finally, I want to assure the Greek people that, apart from being proud of this hard work, he must also be quiet. He must be proud, because the Greek Government is not going to bend to irrational demands, but also to be quiet, because our patience and perseverance in negotiation will soon bear fruit. We will best defend the right of an entire people to live with dignity, but above all to live in conditions that give a prospect of prosperity, progress, preparedness, to live in conditions of dignity and hope, optimism. I'm sure we'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u3	Prime Minister, your last words heard them and the new generations, twenty-six students and students, and three teachers attending from the 13th Municipal School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Antonis Samaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u4	The time really has come for truth and responsibility for everyone. The government has been telling us in all tones over the last few weeks that the agreement is coming, that it is being cleaned up. He wasn't telling the truth. There was no deal, and he knew it. Write and rewrite your own proposal. Nor did you tell the truth when you said that you were supposed to be making a proud negotiation. No negotiation has taken place. You talked about what would be called the "troika" for internal communication management alone. Finally, when the time came, the 'troika' - the 'institutions', as you say now - made you a much worse proposal than the one we discussed, and indeed a proposal to go directly to a new memorandum, when we took the country out of the Memorandum. You have been lying for months, pre-election and post-election, about the infamous e-mail Hardouvelis, and now your executives come and confess publicly that after your so-called proud negotiation, what the lenders are now asking you to do is three times more than the ones contained in the e-mail Hardouvelis. Listen: The most important proposal I could make to you would be to continue the negotiation on the basis of e-mail Hardouvelis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But where to find the courage to do this when you deceived the Greek people with a flag the allegedly destructive e-mail Hardouvelis that your people now say was an oasis in front of what you bring! You come tonight and you appear to us as head of resistance to the proposal you yourself have brought. This is your incredible creative ambiguity. Nor was it true that the small surpluses offered to you today are a great achievement. Why are you forgetting that every year we make surpluses of less than 3%, we need to borrow to pay the interest of the year, and that increases the debt, obliges us to new borrowing, leads us directly to a memorandum. You said a few words about the surpluses. Let me tell you that what you are gaining from these lower surpluses has already been lost by the evolution of the economy in the last four months. Since the third quarter of last year Greece has had the fastest growth rate throughout the eurozone. Today we are the only eurozone country in recession. Now that we have reintroduced the recession, the surplus will certainly be much smaller. This is not your success. This is a forced adaptation to the recession that you have already caused. You have been lying for months that there will be no more memorial, and now that's falling apart, because in forced lending, the country goes to a third memorandum. You say that for months, since June 2014, you have not been paid any dose, you are not taking doses. That's true, but it's not the first time. And last year we took the dose a year later, and the country relied on its own forces without a problem, and we came out on the markets successfully, and we did not wipe out the reserves, we did not make a payment stop, we did not, as you did, reduce the expectations of government delays. Do you know what the difference is? That after November 2014, ahead of the election and early elections, the revenues collapsed. And that's what we warned and where the country is paying today. Nor are you telling the truth, when for months you have reiterated to us that you have been seeking political negotiation. And now that the time has come for political negotiation, we have seen what you have achieved: to propose far heavier measures than those proposed to us. So you're asking us the New Democracy party - I'm talking about it - who we are with: with your own proposal or the proposal of the lenders? That's a nerve. Already the lenders know very well that in a number of points from their proposal we have historically opposed it and refused it not once, but many times. We have answered this question you are asking us today, whether we would support the elimination of CSR or a reduction in pensions. And I repeat that we said it not once but many times. Don't say again about reducing the CSCE. We have established the minimum guaranteed income, which you have abolished. And then - right - we anticipated that double aid should not be given in some cases, that is, CSCE and a minimum guaranteed income. But that's a whole different thing. Listen, every year since 2012, we have been asked for new additional austerity measures to catch - it says - the targets, EUR 700 million a year, EUR 1.2 billion a year. What were these additional measures that they asked for? Among other things: reduction of CSR, additional reduction in wages, pensions, abolition of VAT deductions on islands, increase in VAT on energy, increase in income, increase in the extra levy, increase in the advance payment of income tax for free traders. And all that we had denied. Only then the government had the power. Why? Because it kept getting the budget targets, and now you're completely out of the targets. You've lost the ball completely. You're constantly increasing the deficit. You are putting the country in recession and, of course, you are losing credibility, constantly raising the bill. We have taken the country into a difficult situation, ladies and gentlemen. We took measures, but VAT didn't bring him up anywhere. We put him down in the catering room. And now they're asking you to take him back to 23%. And you ask me if I accept the measures when we had imposed a reduction in VAT on the focus. And the solidarity levy, we downloaded it when you yourself are proposing increases. And you're still putting new taxes on consistent taxpayers, and you're giving the debts to big ones, when in our bill we predicted a hundred instalments, but not to the big ones, to the systematic batters. But why don't you ask me something else if I support your own measures? And I'm asking, what can I support? The deduction of VAT on the islands? We were asked for it, and we refused. If - you notice - we accepted the VAT rebate on the islands last November, the fifth assessment would have been closed. We did not accept it because our policy was and remains island. That is to say, support the populations living on islands and having increased supply costs. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would remind you that in Rhodes, you yourself said: 'SYRIZA undertakes to close any discussion on an increase in VAT in the island regions on 26 January.' That's what you said. And now not only are you getting it back, you're suggesting it. And you alone suggest that VAT should go to packed foods at 23%, not creditors. You yourself! Is it what Mr Varoufakis said to find a good to increase VAT and to relax? He didn't finally find one. You found a charge that costs 28% of food and most of the products in supermarkets. Congratulations! Furthermore, by our decision, the solidarity levy had been reduced by 30% to all of us this year. And you come back and restore the solidarity levy that we have reduced, for those who have an income of more than EUR 30 000 per year, that is, a large part of the middle class. The proposal by creditors on the occasion of the special levy is even worse, indeed. But your proposal goes far behind where we were and hits the middle-class that we had begun to relieve. Yeah, it's true. We've taken tough measures. But what you yourself suggested we prevented. And a lot of what the lenders suggest we prevented, too. And yes, it's true. We found the country in terrible deficits. We had to take measures that hurt everyone and the middle class. But we were beginning to relieve her. We had started tax reductions in the focus, in the carpet, in the ENPIA, in the contribution of solidarity, in the heating oil, in the distribution of social dividends, with 50% of the cuts in the uniforms we returned. So we started alleviating ourselves to catch up with the aim of developing the goal. You, despite the fact that you found the country in surpluses, instead of tax reductions, are taking a tax raid. And our differences with you are not just in the tax raid you're bringing us and bringing you. It's also the loss of control you caused. You've kneeled the country inside. You've been smuggling the country abroad. You completely isolated us. All the results on Eurogroup are 18-1 at our expense. And now you see the result. Except the country - and that's what we care about - is the one who pays for it. How can the situation change for the better? Three things need to be done immediately. And that's the basis of a great deal of understanding. First, to put an end to slandering, to admit the truth, to change the climate between us, to stop mocking people. Secondly, change policy because you are mocking the public by sacrificing the private sector. You are still announcing thousands of appointments of a different kind. That's not working anymore. Of course you are being asked for more measures because you have put brakes on the privatisations in which your ministers still say no to everything. The budget gap is still increasing from your obsession to restore the trade unions' privileges. You accept new taxes and demand even more because you do not want to touch the sacred public cow. You deny the evaluation done everywhere in the world when conscientious civil servants, I believe, absolutely, want the assessment. The trade unions and the heterogeneous, the persuasive supporters, are the ones they don't want. You should know something. I am already in contact with both foreign leaders and with European officials to reduce the pain that this agreement brings but in a different direction and logic from you. I am struggling for the relief of the private sector, the businessman, the worker, the self-employed, the farmer, who expects an investment to find the unemployed. That's who I care about. Not the hostess. The delayed privatisations are cancelled. The great state you rebuild is your two great ideological obsession and it is the ones that cover half the budget gap from what you are asked. And vice versa, if we speed up the privatizations, if we move towards the reorganization of the public, this will reduce the gap and prevent the new taxes that are being applied to you. Much more in the next few years. Why don't you forget, even if this agreement is closed, the memorandum comes, the essential, the great, I assume in September, with new measures. So we must change the country's policy and sacrifice your ideas. Apart from stopping lies and changing politics, one more thing needs to be done. It is the third prerequisite for national understanding: to restore stability and, most importantly, the country's credibility both outward and outward. You know how much it costs the country, Mr Tsipras, the uncertainty you impose, the unreliability you have caused. Incalculable. I'll only give you a little calculation. In the first three months of your governance, i.e. until April, tax revenues had been less than 900 million. However, this did not appear in total revenue because Greece was still collecting non-tax revenue, Community funds in particular, for the costs of the Public Investment Programme that we made in December last year and which are paid as you know with three - four months of delay. We somehow donated the country from last December for the first months of 2015. Community payments saved the situation. In May, however, I have been talking about last month, the one about EU payments was over, and the tax revenues went a long way. I hope you don't know that from me now. The new fall in tax revenue has now reached 1 billion, only in May. You have made a payment stop and the taxpayers have also made a stop to paying. The budget gap has been launched, it continues to grow. That is why I insist that the restoration of credibility and stability can greatly reduce the gap. This is national understanding, not lies, change of policy, abandonment of ideas, restoration of credibility. If this is not the case now, the difficulties will grow much longer in September, which the country will have to negotiate on the next memorandum. You're asking us what we're going to do with the final deal you haven't brought us yet. You brought us back here, like next time, again, so you don't say anything. Bring the final deal and we'll tell you. Observations we do tonight. Your party, however - I ask - have you asked what it will do with the proposal that you yourself submitted? She's backing her up? Let me put it another way: Can your party and you make difficult decisions yourself? Can the country come out of the crisis without any difficult decisions? Can you get them? In order not to take you to Thessaloniki that comparison with the MPs is even more painful. Some, of course, were asking a few days ago - now they are not saying it - to support any agreement. If I did this last thing, I would find it difficult to make your position at the most critical time, because if the Opposition pushed you to accept everything, then you would be asked for even more. And this damage to my country, I'm not! In any case, you have never supported the previous government's efforts as opposition. Dynamite all the time. I have already helped to return the SNPs and to reduce taxes previously and publicly and in private. Above all, home! So what I'm suggesting is that you change policy, get rid of your burdens, restore credibility, see what we can save. And the big fight - don't make a mistake - it's not now. Now let's go conquer the dunes. We have a mountain ahead of us later to conquer. And that's the terms of the big deal on the third memorial you're bringing us. Don't forget. That's where the big fight is. The country's in danger. We are already not paying the IMF dose, as you said, which has been the case since the 1980s in some African country. That's where you got us. Did we get to the dilemma, pay the borrowers or pay wages and pensions? Should we leave the euro or go bankrupt? I don't accept the dilemma. We can also stay in the euro and our obligations to pay. I am telling you this because we have done so in a much more difficult situation with always our aim and our attention to development. But not with this policy. And I need another point. All your people have been talking over the last few days about an early appeal to the polls. Even you yourself implied it. I hope you don't think you're threatening us. Let me tell you rawly: we in the New Democracy are not afraid of elections. It's the country that can't stand the election. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The elections that you provoked last January led the country back far. New early elections will take her back even further. The country can't stand it. They'll bring her a lot closer to the accident. And then, tell me, if you don't make a deal, how are you going to make an election? With the country already in bankruptcy? In conditions that are wild, socially resurrected? And what will you ask of the world? Give you approval for a collision? Something like that - to know - would turn the elections into a 'yes' or not into the euro. I do not say to you 'yes or not in Europe', because the break with Europe goes far beyond the euro. Unless - as they very much suspect today - this was your goal, from the outset, to get us out of the euro first with the previous elections, the early ones, and now with the second round, round and elections. And because you will lose this race, because people are in favour of staying in the euro, you will know that it will not benefit the country from such civilisation. And don't forget that you won the elections with the promise to bring a better deal within the euro. And what has already been proposed is a worse deal and a new memorandum. And that's what everyone sees now! And don't forget that you declared last January that you will make proposals to Europeans. Now you're surprised. But then you were telling us that there is not a single case in the million to refuse. Now what are you going to say to the world? That what you told our partners refused everything and you'd clash with them? And don't forget that so far the world has compared the measures we took with the good promises you made. Now even without an agreement you have already proposed measures. And these, of course, have nothing to do with the Thessaloniki measures. Now, however, the comparison will also be made on some other basis. With your own things, with your own results that are gracious, nightmareous, because they upload the account every day. Of course, if you go through the deal, you won't be able to hold elections. Or are you expecting others to make partial disbursements of the sums so needed by the Greek economy while you, after you have made an agreement with them, will you ask the world to give you a break order? The measures that you will take and the situation you have already created will therefore leave you no room for elections. So you're not threatening us with this, you're threatening the country, you're threatening yourself. Finally, I mean, look, don't become the fatal man, the fatal man of Greece! When you told us a few months ago that you were negotiating up, you told us, at the same time, that we were negotiating on four. I'm not going to answer that. Unfortunately, the day before yesterday, you were standing up and everyone was shocked, like Mr. Chakalotos. Leave the majestics! Leave the arrogance! Try to come to a great deal of understanding! Our party is here to ensure that the Greeks have a way out, that the money that is no longer paid will be taken, that the money you have received from the funds and from the hospitals will return, that subsidies will be given this year and in all the years to come, that there will be liquidity, that unemployment will continue to decline, as it has been reduced in the last year, and now growing again and that growth will come back and that in Europe we will not be the poor relative and the pariah. We are here to tell the Greek citizen, to every Greek family, and especially to the new Greek, that the credibility of the country will be restored, as we did three years ago in a much more difficult situation, that the recovery will return, as it entered last year and that the nightmare of suffocation, uncertainty will be overtaken so that there is no anxiety whether or not wages and pensions will be paid at the end of the month, as there has never been such anguish in our own days. We are here to guarantee the return to normality, to the European path of the country that our resignation has founded, to the return, to the growth that we have achieved. And that's why I'm here. You look not to be the fatal man of Greece! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Samaras. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting from the top Western theories is being attended by twenty students and schoolchildren and four of their school attendants from the University School of Pedini Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Yanna do have their honors tonight. The President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, Nikos Michalios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what the New Democracy and PASOK have signed were memorandums. So, what the government is going to sign, today is an agreement. In reality, however, this is also a memorandum. In the Committee of Inquiry on Memorandums said on Wednesday, just two days ago, Professor Kasimatis said: "For the first time, such an agreement was signed in the history of humanity. You don't even sign a gun to the head. Unprecedented in the agreement is the express resignation of all immunities of basic goods, but also of the rights of national sovereignty. The second unprecedented condition is the commitment of the entire public property. The loan is without collateral. All economic rights of Greece are committed for the sake of lenders." That is what Professor Kasimatis said, and I do not know - nor did the Prime Minister state - whether in the new agreement those terms, those that existed in the previous memorandums, namely English law and the assignment of national sovereignty, will exist. Not a word was heard about it. Both Mr Cassimatis and other authors have stated that the reference to Article 28 of the Constitution, on the basis of which the memorandums have been legitimised, has no solid legal basis. For the truth, I read paragraph 3 of Article 28 of the Constitution: "Greece shall, by means of a law passed by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, impose restrictions on the exercise of its national sovereignty, if it is dictated by a great national interest, do not affect human rights and the foundations of the democratic culture". Below, with two asterisks there is the interpretative statement, which shows the intention of the legislator: 'Article 28 is the foundation for the country's participation in the European integration procedures'. In what sense does the service of a burdensome loan, a pillaging of the Greek people, serve European integration and what position can the International Monetary Fund have in European integration? Illegally, then, the memorials and the agreement you're going to sign if you sign them! And it's really worth wondering how what you were saying yesterday, today you've forgotten about it. As far as the New Democracy is concerned and its reference to early elections, which will destroy the country and which, I think, will effectively destroy the New Democracy, I have to say that, in today's deadlock, we have been led by early elections, on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic. New Democracy would put the patriotic duty on its party interest, according to it, in an interest in the nation in Memorandum 3 and would not proceed in early elections, but estimated the political cost. In this respect, it was certain that he would lose the election. But he didn't want to lose them much. It was not even its party interest, but its inner-party interest, i.e. the New Democracy leadership team having a management defeat. I am not going to mention what SYRIZA had to say in an election, and which he did not actually observe against antenna. Four months have passed, which, in our view, were months lost, which did not lead to a solution to the problem and did not pose the key problems at the forefront. With reference to the speech by the Prime Minister, I would like to say that in his phrase 'we have nothing to keep secret' I object. And I object because, first of all, it does not tell us the counter-proposal that the Greek Government is currently making against the Yunker proposal. It also does not tell us whether the new agreement, which it is to sign and which it seeks - even said it was optimistic about it - would be governed by English law and the assignment of national sovereignty. No word about it. No word on the debt, which, apart from the Alps, makes an effort, which, in our view, does not have the institutional significance of recourse to international courts, then nothing has been done. The Prime Minister also said that he managed to reduce the primary surpluses that the European Union put into Greece. 'Cook if you get it instead of the unholy' is a phrase from the Greek mythology. Someone wanted to go through the other world - Menipus specifically - and he didn't have the bullet. Hare asked him for the blur and said "if you get it despite the unfamiliar". "Woman, if you will not have it," so also from the Greek people. As much as major primary surpluses to demand, they are not going to receive them. The Greek people have been "conscious". And to say things with their name about debt, such a huge amount cannot be dealt with by the country. There is no solution to Greece's debt, but its complaint, like some of SYRIZA's executives, supported pre-election and some - to their honour - have been supporting it to this day. Inside the capitalist jungle of the global financial system, there is no solution to undo EUR 320 billion, almost twice as much, as 200% of the Gross National Product. Not a word in the speech by the Prime Minister and, of course, much more, of the President of the Civilian opposition, about burdensome debts. All this money, however, which was borrowed by Greece and which was wasted, either in equipment, or in the famous Olympic Games of 2004, did not go for the benefit of the Greek people. Therefore, the debt is burdensome. And that should be the first work of the Government. It should be from the start. The Prime Minister told us that through his proposal that Mr Yunker always smiled - they do not cost a single cent the smiles - he was sadly surprised. What's the surprise for? For five years what comes from the European Union is unpleasant. Would something pleasant come along now? And of course we fully agree with him in rejecting the Juncker proposal, which includes, among other things, the abolition of the CSCE and the increase in PPC. However, it will be good in his denunciation for the Prime Minister to state what the government's realistic proposal is. Because it can be better than the Yunker proposal, but it's just as bad for the Greek people. The Prime Minister also said that no one wants the break. Is the break finally a solution? How can we rule this out? Where's the situation going? Did the romance with Europe, this Europe, end? Five years holds the Memorandum. In all these five years in Greece the rich have become richer and the poorer. At the level of states the northern countries have become richer and the southern ones are almost bankrupt. In general and vaguely, then, the problems of debt. And within all of this, to continue the disaster, and in a way that is equitable, Marxist, of the middle class of the country. Suddenly people became rich, having a family income of 30,000 euros a year, namely, 2,500 euros a month. A family with two children with 2,500 euros a month barely getting through. That's the reality. Are these the rich, of whom would a solution to Greece's economic problem? No national development plan. And the only predominant is fear, fear of elections, fear of bankruptcy, fear of drachma, fear of the disappearance of the euro and an unprecedented economic poverty. I will remember at this point the great work of Dostoyevski "Crime and Honour" and his central hero, Raskollnikov, who, when he goes beyond himself and goes to murder with the axe the old loan shark, sees it resisting rabies. And she wonders and says, "How is it possible for her miserable life, which was nourished with nuts and water, to defend itself so much?" And he writes Dostoyevski: What Raskolnikov didn't notice was that the more disgusting the existence of someone, the more fucked up by it. So do not rely on fear and misery, which exists in much of the Greek people in the name of a fetish called the euro. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 January 2015 the Greek people voted against the Memorandum and even chose Greece to go to the rocks. A rock is Greece full of honor for thousands of years and not a vulture of subjection! The position of the Golden Dawn is clear: No more memorandum, not a continuation of the assignment of national sovereignty. Finally, a national development plan, a return to the national economy, national protectionism, the Greek worker, the farmer, the Greek worker! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u7	Thank you. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor. We're waiting for him to enter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry for a few seconds' delay. It is indeed a great opportunity today to say some truths at this critical moment for the country. But I am surprised, Mr President-in-Office, that you have just wondered here on the step by step if Mr Junger's proposal is tricky. You speak with him every day - I understand - with Mrs Merkel. You should then give us the answer as to whether it is a trick what our allies, our partners, our lenders are doing. You have to realise that you have the responsibility of this negotiation. You're not the mailman to convey a question. You are the Prime Minister who must give your own interpretation to Europeans' moves. We were expecting - it is the truth - not just us, but I think the entire Greek people today, ladies and gentlemen, a few more truths than the Prime Minister, greater honesty, more treacherous words. We were expecting him to tell us that we really have a few days ahead of us to make a deal. If I am not mistaken, Mr Tsipras, our time ends on 14 June. Until then Greece must have decided. I think that then - and correct me if it is not in your dentistry - we will not be able to reach agreement with the parliaments of the other states. I think June 14 is a date we can't leave beyond it. But there is one question and you will have to answer it. I think our country has lost a valuable time. In other words, you have lost a few months that you have done absolutely nothing while you could do a lot. And I think that only in Riga at the end of May did you realize that lies are ending and we should have an agreement with our partners. In other words, there is a very big question you have not answered: What have you done a hundred thirty days? Because I have heard you mention the world's disposal and often refer to polling, you would see that almost half of the citizens, 47-48% say that you are negotiating wrong and only a 30% say that you are negotiating in a proper way. As also the polls show something else, which I hope you've noticed: People want an honest deal and they don't mind if any of your election lies, against us, go sidelined. What should concern you, however, is that in the same polls your government block, namely SYRIZA and ANEL, does not want this honest agreement. Since February we called on you not to let time pass, to let communication demagogues, to negotiate seriously, by closing the negotiation in March. You were able to do it when you were living a real honeymoon with Europeans. We were telling you that you had to proceed directly to privatizations, we also made some additions to you, that the projects that are meant to go ahead, to be demilitarized, to keep the Greek public 20-30%, but those who put the money, of course, have the responsibility of demilitarisation, to insist on primary surpluses of less than 1%, a key position for negotiation, which you should have cleared long before your last proposal. And, of course, we had called on you since March to prioritise the reforms, the tax administration, tax justice, justice and public administration. And, of course, all these months, you have done exactly the opposite, preferring demagogy, populism, the reform of the wired tourist, the demolition of education and party appointments. Mr. Tsipras, your government likes improvisations, often devastating improvisations, if we notice what has happened to education, migration and the public. What social sensitivity are we talking about when this year's health expenditure is falling to 4.3% of GDP compared with 7% of the Community average? You will tell me that this is a Memorandum of Understanding. So there I think there should be a great deal of conflict, which is why you should fight. And we should be able today to talk about hospitals that are basically operating and not intensive war zone. Therefore, instead of going ahead with reforming and restructuring the hospital map, saving human resources and money, you chose to replace the administrations, to help your ‘children’. I propose this, because as you have already been informed - you will know, I hope - the process of finding staff for hospitals is in the SYRIZA components, that is to say, the local committees are called upon to decide who will be in the hospitals all over the country tomorrow. That is about your policy towards education. That is what we have said some other time. The big question that exists and to which you have not answered, Mr Tsipras, is what your development policy is, what your development proposal is. We hear nice titles and really in this chapter of the ideas exhibition your party and your staff can get excellent. But beyond the titles, what else can we say? I have carefully seen your proposals on these forty-seven pages. I'll be very brief. I will not talk about many small or large inaccuracies in these forty-seven pages. But we are all talking about the big export issue, that this country will never cease to be with its hand if it does not increase production if it does not increase its exports. So I see on page 36, Chapter B, 'Export Promotion', then blank. Even a first-year student of ASEAN would have had to complete two - three more words in this large, important reform to be carried out in our country in favour of exports. On forty-seven pages there are no specific proposals, beyond the very large, fine words. Your biggest problem, Prime Minister, will you allow me to say that your party does not have a plan and a vision for the country within Europe, within the Eurozone. A portion of your party, ladies and gentlemen, your main ministers are anti-Europeans, they are prisoners, they are party guards, they are enemies of creativity, inventivity, production and creation of national wealth. They question the whole private sector of the economy, they despise its factors and they want to drown it. The private sector workers are invisible to them. In other words, many of the SYRIZA's side, unfortunately, is aware of the 'troika', which we call 'destructive troika of the interior, bankruptcy and drachma'. And you should, Mr Tsipras, draw a dividing line and prevent your executives from referring so easily to the country's rupture and bankruptcy scenarios. We have, in other words, called on you to clarify your relations with your internal opposition and with the front against the country's European path. How can you accept your personnel who undermine the European future of the country every day? You will listen to them, we will also hear them, Ministers and executives who, in depth, believe that Putin and the Soviet Union exist and continue, that is Russia today. How can the fates of the country depend on Members who are criminally irresponsible are referring to windows to control the movement of capital, bankruptcy and extra-planning funding solutions? I have to tell you, because some people consider this to be a question of democracy, that it is not pluralism when half the party wants to break and drachma, it is a retreat to darkness. Mr. Tsipras, you chose to be on your own in the negotiation. We have proposed that, from the day after your election success, there should be a national negotiating committee. And when I say 'national negotiating committee', I do not mean a national negotiating committee of the parties, I mean a national negotiating committee with people who know the circumstances both in the country and in Europe. You refused. You wanted to go with your own executives, which you at some point withdrew, you put some more. I say this because it is late for you to make some latest changes, but you must rethink it, in other words, rethink that the next big deal to be negotiated on debt, the next big negotiation to be held on issues that will remain open, such as insurance, should be a national negotiation and not just a negotiation of your executives. However, let's go to the questions you raised: low surpluses, debts, pension protection and low wages, redistribution of income, reintroduction of labour negotiations, and development programme. I think that the overwhelming majority of Members of the Greek Parliament can agree with these fine titles, but you are also obliged to give a content to these titles and do not do so. So, apart from calling in a nice, really, way our problems and the solutions we give you, you are obliged, in a direct period of time, if not until the agreement, but on the next day of the agreement, to tell us how you understand all this. I have to tell you that we are making a constant effort abroad to support the country's effort and I would like, on this occasion, from the Greek Parliament, to address our allies and to tell them that they should not lose the great picture. It's not SYRIZA and the ANELs across from them. The great picture is the Greeks, and Europe should do all it can to keep Greece in the centre of Europe. In other words, our allies, together with you, must find a solution in the next difficult days for the country. Potami, the beneficial movement for the country, without left-wing and right-wing recycles, without left-wing and right-wing ideals, will be present in this last attempt to reach agreement on the country. We're not asking for revenge, we're not asking for justice. We are the movement of progressive logic and we will support the European proposal which will have the signature of the government and the signature of our partners, provided that we have decided to finally leave the ruptured toys, bankruptcy games and move on a path of development and reducing social inequalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u9	Thank you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, today's accelerated debate of the two hours, to which you are due and the emergency character, is, in our opinion, fully integrated into the tactics that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has had since the first moment, to draw the Greek people into subjection, to resignation for which it has fought over all these years, such as the abolition of memoranda and the recovery of losses, with which this struggle has certainly had in these years and even to resign from these few that SYRIZA promised in the election process. Under the responsibility of the government and the lenders, the Greek people are in the midst of a blackmail, of course not unprecedented, but extremely dangerous, that is to say, to choose the Yunker project or the SYRIZA government plan. If this blackmail dominates, the people will live a new long time of even greater poverty, fear, misery. The people will either become a leader in the struggle, collecting their experience, unexploited powers and throwing this raw blackmail into their basket or measuring new defeats, frustrations and even in battles that they have not even tried to give. We in this House will be counting on the complete abolition of the memoranda, the recovery of the losses for our people, the need to be a starting point today for unfolding a struggle with one single outcome: the release of the European Union, socialisation of the monopolies, decommissioning of the debts, which is not being dealt with if you are simply delaying a dose and picking it up with the others, but if you deny the debt, you do not recognize it definitively and finally. But you didn't have any such guts either. Some say that today's debate is a means to 'empty' the New Democracy and the Potami from some propagandaist tactical arguments or to entertain the concern and reactions of a portion, a group of your MPs. But we insist that all this is not your main objective. Your main goal is for the unemployed, the workers, the pensioners, the professionals, the self-employed in the city and the village. They're the ones you want to cheat. Your partners in the European Union have already offered you a strong hand of assistance directly or indirectly, openly or behind the scenes. They put in front of a package of many old barbaric measures in order to show readiness, to resign from a very small place, but to keep a new memorandum on follow-up. And you made a list of proposals, which will eventually lead to a barbaric agreement, something between e-mail Hardouvelis and e-mail troika, which also lives and reigns under the new name you gave it, namely 'three institutions'. You know, the hoja's tactics are known from the past. It was applied to a large extent by previous governments. It puts the European Union and the International Monetary Fund in the bag more than anything worse, to then make some, to make mutual retreat, and to be satisfied and the people are relieved of the fear that there are even worse. You are playing a leading, dramatic, but, for our people, work. You are following a different tactic from the New Democracy and PASOK and you are obliged to do so in order to show that you are responding to the expectations of the people, and in fact there has not been a single day in your mind to be the tortured people as the protagonist of developments. You were able to vote, to convince him to support you in your anti-grass work, in the great compromise that you will make and that you will begin as government. You have already started him as a government from the agreement of 20 February. You trade the hopes of the people, taking advantage of the reactionary, conservative, consensual, in the final analysis, role of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River, even the subtle criticism of the Golden Dawn, in order to get the people to fear something else, if there are any plans to overthrow you. So the heads inside. You dare even say that the JRC remains indifferent and indifferent, that we do not see the fight you are doing. You dare even play - because, after all, you do - with the pain of a people who literally seek to find even 1 euro to meet basic needs and at the same time share the pipelines - the wealth of the country - when in European monopolies, when in Chinese, when in American. You treat them as governmental land. Ladies and gentlemen, four months after the elections on 25 January, the people can better see what was hidden and what is behind the crowns for the proud and hard negotiations, for which the government and today the Prime Minister are asking us to put back and support. What exactly do we have four months after the election? Firstly, there was no abolition of the memoranda that voted for New Democracy and PASOK. On the contrary, you have legalized them. Oh, beard, beard! More than four hundred laws remain in force and the government undertakes that all of this will remain infinite. And, by the way, there is still no discussion about the proposal for a law of our party to abolish the memoranda tabled by the first week of the new government, which is not a form of speech, as SYRIZA officials say, on the issue of the abolition of the memoranda and which SYRIZA himself had as an election slogan. And it turns out that it only had as a slogan for deceiving our people. Secondly, the government has already put these few election promises of the Thessaloniki programme on ice. After SYRIZA turned the program of a hundred days into a four-year programme and put it, now the implementation of the pre-election promises refers to the unknown future and it turns out that the SYRIZA, in an election, played with the anguish of our people and gathered his attention to some immediate measures that would certainly not pay the large capital, but the rest of the workers and who would barely relieve extreme poverty, nor will they. Thirdly, you are making new commitments to NATO. Offers for new naval bases, extension of other Aegean embraces with the United States of America, readiness to participate in new interventions in the region. And let me tell you this: no government since 1974 has dared to speak about the creation of a new naval base on the Aegean island. Another pioneer of the renewing Left that governs us today. Fourthly, the government is preparing to sign this new agreement with the lenders. Whether this agreement is single or comes into instalments, that is, some minimum agreement now and some strategic measures, such as insurance, for later, for October, are a secondary issue. Now you are preparing to legislate on some new anti-grassroots measures to follow the rest. That's probably the plan. And we are not saying this about the proposal of the lenders, which you are currently saying you reject, since it indeed contains a "Armageedon" from barbaric anti-grass measures, we are talking about your own proposal, your government's proposal, if it is passed. What does your proposal really recommend? Is it a good deal for the people? Not even by the way. It is a painful agreement for the people, a new memorandum, which not only consolidates and thus legitimises all the anti-grassroots measures of the former, banning and simply mitigating them, but also adds new measures of looting that are even more massive impoverishment, poverty for the working class and other popular strata. In fact, with its proposal, the government says: it is committed to increasing anti-grassroots indirect taxes, VAT, leading to large increases in basic consumer products, even for basic foods that go to 23%. He is committed to permanentising the carpet of contributing solidarity to people's families with incomes of even 30,000 euros. It is committed to continue the policy of privatisation and liberalisation of areas of strategic importance, infrastructure, such as ports, airports, with negative consequences for both workers and those who will make use of these services. You are committed to raising the retirement age limits by abolishing the remaining early retirement rights and opening the way for further reversals of insurance rights through the integration of funds and proportionate studies that you say you will. Let the crowns be paid for by the rich, the oligarchy and other things to fool the workers. On behalf of them, you negotiate these interests you have in the front line. At the same time as you ask the people - as their patriotic duty - to pay unbearable taxes, the capital remains unavoidable. No tax exemption for big capital has been abolished, while other legislative initiatives are granted debts, fines for big businessmen and undeclared large-scale depositors incomes are undeclared. Even the pursuit of your Government of low primary surpluses, investment packages, debt repayment regulation does not serve the real relief of the people, the increase in wages, pensions, social benefits, but the savings of resources that will support investment, capitalist recovery, profitability, which is incompatible with the needs and rights of workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is mocking the people rawly when it says that the new agreement ensures that there will be no new reductions in wages and pensions, precisely because of the fact that these anti-grass commitments alone lead to mathematically new major losses in people's incomes. The new measures will not simply be added to the anti-language, anti-grassroots framework that exists, in the four hundred implementing laws which remain in force, to the payment position imposed by the government on hospitals, universities and social services, and will also be binding on the cash funds, municipalities and other public bodies with forced internal lending. But the new Memorandum - on the basis of your proposal - will work proliferationally at the expense of the people's labour requirements. It surrounds more dynamicly, because it opens the way for a new round of blackmail against the people in conditions that the Eurozone is difficult to recover from the crisis and the contradictions become more acute. For us, therefore, it is absolutely rejected both of the creditors' plans and of the government's plans. What we have to recognise to the government is, of course, that it has succeeded in covering the real nature of the negotiation and to cultivate to some extent the polluting idea that for the first time it is done and that Europeans have lost their sleep to deal with the SYRIZA and that the people must be proud of the government and the negotiation, regardless of whether their pocket and stomach are empty. We admit that to some extent you've achieved it, no matter how close it is to legs, since the bill will pay him the well-known mortgages again. This is your big offer to the system. At a time when, and it must be, genuine radicalism must be strengthened, which must - and must - be strengthened by mass popular mobilisation, the reorganisation of the movement with objectives, such as the abolition of memoranda, the recovery of losses for the people, debt reduction, the break with the European Union, the socialisation of monopolies, you have assured that the European Union is our common home and you have mocked the people that it can get rid of memorials and trophysms without a break with the European Union and capital, that is, without a conflict with the inspirations of the memorials. You assured the people that the easy way of parliamentary elections and the emergence of a new government - your left - as a new manager - a negotiator would bring another situation to his benefit. You have deceived the Greek people that the European Union is changing. You have scoured false hopes and you are still cheating on the fact that it can within the European Union, in this alliance of 'lutes', that there are relationships of equality and solidarity. You have cultivated the logic of less evil. The smallest evil started from the program of Thessaloniki and which was "not to go below, you guys". Today, we end up with the greatest evil of your proposal to lenders. Above all, you, like the other parties, want to have our people drink water in the name of capitalist recovery, make their lives and future dependent on the profitability of the large capital of the markets - because that means 'capitalist recovery' - and none at all. Despite what our language has haired - and I do not know, if your ear is sweating, we are addressing the Greek people in particular - we will repeat it: Philolian development and philosophical negotiation of capital and monopolies with Greece - a Member State of the European Union and NATO and a strategic ally of the United States of America cannot exist! From this point of view, you are negotiating with the lenders - we have never blamed you for the opposite - but sitting on the same side of the table and being left behind. Because you and the lenders consider the Union's objectives and principles of operation as one of the objectives. You negotiate the terms of service of a debt that is like the heads of Lernaia Hydra. The payment of each instalment gives rise to a new need for borrowing and loans made, a profit for the capitalists. Within these walls the result of any negotiation that you make can only be unpopular. That is why the solution lies in the break with this framework and not in the negotiation of the conditions for the slaughter of our people. Of course, you also have your 'left-population' within your party, proposing a break of caricature, a so-called 'break', in the context of the capitalist road again, where the country and the people will again be blocked by the European Union's directions or other imperialist alliances and monetary unions that may be involved. Then the people will pay dearly for the profits of those business centres that will benefit from either devalued national currency or other double currency. You let the information be leaked that we will borrow from Russia, from China, from the BRICS banks, as if all of them would provide loans without consideration. In fact, if Russia and China want to implement their investment projects, they want Greece to stay in the Eurozone, as they see Greece as their main gateway to Europe. So the damage that SYRIZA does is not only economic directly or in the medium term. It is a multifaceted dissolution, because it attempts to block radical dispositions, every trace of radicalism, so that the people do not dare to think, today or tomorrow, that it can have a future outside these today's walls with itself, of course, in power. Ladies and gentlemen, we call on the people to put their own red lines towards the lenders and to the government. And these red lines are neither identified nor converged nor decayed with the red line you all have - lenders, government, other parties - which is the European Union, the recovery of the capitalist economy with the people tied up by hand. Each of you has its role in this process and, above all, in the integration of the people and their resistance. So, in our view, the people need to oppose their great strength, which has not really been used until now, which has put it on second fate in the hope that only by waiting for elections yesterday, today, may he be able to change his life radically. And we note this particularly today that the elections are being used as a scenario again to make the people accomplice to the new anti-popular agreements. The power of the people, however, lies first and foremost in the organization, class struggle, in the irresponsible struggle to develop the losses, in the preparation and organisation of popular counter-attack immediately, to claim the abolition of their memoranda and laws. The force of the games is multiplying and brings some results, only when it develops and evolves through the experience of workers themselves in questioning the power of monopolies, the European Union and NATO. The Communist Party of Greece is fighting in this direction and contributes to the proposals for legislation, amendments, other interventions it has tabled to the House and which, whether they are not for discussion or rejected by the government. In order to give a definitive solution to the people, a real break is needed. Fight with the power of capital, releasing from the European Union, unilateral deletion of debt. This means that the working class and the people's layers should come to power, that the means of production should become social property, that production and social services should be designed centrally, scientifically, with labour, public control and with a view to popular prosperity. And we address a particular call to the radical world, to the labour, people's forces, who believed in the SYRIZA, and who today also have the opportunity, but also the experience to draw some conclusions, to meet with the KKE in the struggle within the movement, even though they have reservations about individual positions. To meet again at the popular games, at the great rallys, such as the one held on June 11 against the new Memorandum - an agreement. This is the path of a truly proud and dignified attitude for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. First of all, because it has been heard twice that the JRC's proposal - the first - has followed the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, that is, it has been referred to the Ministry of Finance, the relevant reports have already been made and it has already been referred to the relevant Committees for Economic and Social Affairs. The second proposal has also been referred to the Ministry of Finance. I think that the answers are pending and will follow the same procedure, with the prospect of both, to be discussed and not to repeat the bad precedent of the previous period, where no proposals for the law of the parties have ever been discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u12	We will expect to see that in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u13	And I hope that the Members will contribute to strengthening the legislative initiative of both Members and Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u14	Madam President, in practice, we should look at it and not at the words.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u15	I would ask, however, very strongly - I did not want to interrupt Mr Koutsouba - the bomb which is being heard and this general fuss does not seem to be an honour to this House. I would therefore ask everyone to be quiet because the speaker cannot concentrate on all this noise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u16	We're used to it. But we'll do it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u17	I would now ask the President of the Group of Independent Greeks and Minister for National Defence Mr Panos Kammenos to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day, a day that can change the course of history in the last five years, the five years that the Greek people have been impoverished, the surrender of the country's national sovereignty, which we saw running the country by e-mail, which we saw translated bills from the previous government, which we saw with the withdrawal of bills from the previous government, because this is how creditors were commanded. The Greek people in January 2015 decided to change page. The Greek people have decided to acquire a government which will defend national sovereignty, democracy, parliamentaryism, restore these measures which have led the Greek people to impoverishment, the dismantling of the middle class, the youth in unemployment, the whole of the Greek people in unemployment and the business. And this popular mandate was quite clear. The People's Command said that the policy implemented by January 25th must be stopped and enter a new policy, where Greece will acquire a government that will not receive orders, but will be dealt with with by allies and friends, who will not carry out the bills that come in another language, by depositing them here untranslated, that will raise the head and negotiate upright. And he got this government. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen what happened in the Anti-Population area in this period of four, five, six months more than the government of national salvation. We have seen that now the leaders of the parties involved in co-population have been challenged by the parties themselves - conferences, resignations, public debates now about the leaders. So here comes the congressman's time. It's democracy time. It is time for each of us and each of us in this Chamber to realise their national responsibility. And I say this because it has been proved in the past that the MPs can resist and that is how we Independent Greeks were born. I was alone when the Papandreou-Samara and others happened then. Deleted. In the next Memorandum, we were twenty-one. We have set up a parliamentary group. We went down to the elections, to the first, to the second, to the third, to the fourth. We fought, slandered, cut our funding, accepted war from everywhere, but we survived. We survived, because the Greek people united not only the MPs who left the parliamentary group at the time of the New Democracy, but they united the square movements. He united democratic citizens from Central Right, from the Centre, from the patriotic Left with a common slogan, with the slogan of regaining the country's sovereignty within a democracy that will operate in Parliament and a patriotic policy to protect national dignity. When the time came in this House, without conciliation, we supported the government of Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA and supported it until the people's mandate given by the Greek people has been fulfilled, to regain our national sovereignty. At this moment, then, it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to come to us all those who believe that there must finally be a national line not for the country's tradition, but a national line for the salvation of the country, a national line, which says: 'Finally, the orders from the lenders, the impoverishment of the Greek people, the wrong recipe, the end of the austerity! Let's go together to get the future!' The time has come to support this proposal here by the government, a forty-seven-seven-page proposal, which has not been made without any cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u19	Mr President, will you say anything about VAT on the islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u20	"Four" you. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] 'Four'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u21	It's forty-seven pages and you called it treason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u22	A government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u23	You're not going to say anything about VAT on the islands? It's forty-seven pages and you called it treason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u24	You're welcome to bookmakers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u25	Mr. Georgiadis, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u26	...a government, which has negotiated and brought a forty-seven-seven-page...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u27	I would remind you that the debate is at the level of political leaders. You're in danger of misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u28	It is forty-seven pages of text in which it is not mentioned that another memorandum will be signed. The memos are over for this country!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u29	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u30	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u31	It is clearly mentioned on page 46, last page.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u32	Mr President, I see that we have many candidates from the right wing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u33	Candidates and candidates.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u34	In the latter reference, the predictions that the terms of this Agreement, to be signed, shall repeal any other agreement, any other memorandum, any other written or oral obligation. So it's not a memorial! It's the liberation of the country. It is the Greek people's joint decision to leave the policy imposed by creditors and to take the national sovereignty of our country in our hands! That is the proposal here for this government. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Of course, there are points in which the negotiations have been very difficult to deal with within our own parties. Of course, we do not agree on much of this. It is the folk line, however, and we will not leave these limits neither a party nor a single stigma nor a perfect one! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Whether the proposal of the government, which I propose to make the Greek people's proposal, the proposal of the entire Parliament of the Greeks, or from there, will take on their responsibilities, which will have strengthened the effort of dialogue and negotiation. Because things have been heard about this proposal in relation to the islands, read point 5 of page 27 of the e-mail Hardouvelis what he said. It was the continuation of the Mousouroulis mandate to leave the islands under two thousand inhabitants, because they are not in the interest of them. That's what you were negotiating for. To leave the islands under two thousand inhabitants!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u35	For VAT on our islands, Mr President, it was treason!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u36	And in order not to worry, this government is not going to make any agreement to violate Article 101 of the Constitution on taxation on the islands. Of course, be careful. In chairs lying down at 'Nammos', when they drink 'Dom Perion', they will pay it in VAT of 23%! We protect the islanders.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u37	But you have given Nammos five million, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u38	If you proceed to see the rest of Hardouvelis, you will see that on page 3 for the islands, VAT was set at 13%. So leave the fairy tales for the islands. They know who supports them and they have proved it to you in these elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u39	They had a 30% discount, you don't know them well. You don't even know that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that yesterday's parties have entered a reasonable choice of a new leader.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u41	What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u42	I also realise that there is an effort being made here to present himself for the next conference. That is why I am addressing the Members and the Members who will take the decision this evening to tell their voters clearly. Do they support the proposal of Junker and lenders to abolish the CSCE, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u43	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u44	No, we're talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u45	Do they support the proposal for 10% in PPC, which means bracelets and dead, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u46	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u47	Did you say no, Mr. Bourra? Tell the rest of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u48	Be careful not to vote for, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u49	We're right, we're not a paparate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u50	Mr. Kaklamani, you're Vice President of the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u51	Come on, let's talk about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u52	Some of your other partners in the so-called 'European arch', as if we are not Europeans, say that they vote for what they are brought. That's another originality! Whatever agreement it may be, we shall vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u53	Will you tell us anything about Carpathos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u54	I thought you were only interested in Mykonos, Mr. Kaklamani. Let me tell you about Karpathos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u55	We want the base in Karpathos!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u56	Let me tell you about Karpathos and answer the KIC. There is no question of creating a new basis anywhere. We suggested air transport from Souda airport to Karpathos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u57	Prime Minister, do you agree with Carpathos? Why don't you talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u58	The air activity will leave Souda and go to Carpathos. If you do not understand what the existing activity means to move from Crete to an island of the Dodecanese whose air garden has Kastelorizo, I am sorry, but I cannot explain this now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u59	What to "expand" on an island? What does that mean? You spoke of a new natural base. But expansion is no less bad! You're making fun of the Greek people, that's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, to decide today, we must compare what the proposals are, see what primary surpluses mean. The primary surpluses have a huge role to play in the process of development. A percentage point lower primary surplus is translated into 1,8 billion euros, available in the real economy rather than in the black debt hole. What, then, is the comparison of the Samara - Venizelos Memorandum Policy with the proposal of lenders and the government's proposal? In 2015, the proposal of the Samara-Venizelos co-government was 3% surplus. The lenders suggest 1% for 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u61	With less than 3%... You don't even learn numbers from a kid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u62	It's 0.8%. For 2016, the Samara Memorandum of Understanding proposes 4.5% of the creditors, 1.5% of the government. For 2017, the Samara government proposed 4.5% of the lenders, 2.5% of the government. For 2018, the Samara government proposed 4.2%, 3.5% of the lenders, 3.5% of the government. Overall, in four years' time, the benefit to the Greek economy is about EUR 14 billion, even if we do not calculate the growth and growth of GDP that is growing even further. We therefore compare the current government's proposal, which needs to be made a national proposal, with the creditors' proposal and your proposal. Secondly, as far as VAT is concerned, let us see what comparisons are in the VAT of the three proposals, of the past, of the Samara-Venizelos, of the lenders and of the government. The lenders suggest 11% in medicines and food and 23% in energy and feeding. The government proposes 6% in medicines for the survival of the Greek people and in culture, 11% in feeding, newspapers, energy, magazines, hotels, fresh food and water, 23% in a special category of food and meat products. And because the issue of the islands comes, the whole VAT between the lowest and the highest index is 80m euros. We did not vote for the 100 million Grand Music! So much for the islands to survive. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Well, we're not going to give it up!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u63	After the government voted!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u64	The government voted for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u65	The government has voted for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u66	So you don't have the 100 million!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u67	We're the ones where we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u68	After the government voted well or badly and you're Minister to this government! So, you're lying! You're making fun of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u69	You're losing votes now screaming! Please! You're losing votes like this!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u70	Let me lose votes, as long as I see you doing a sardam!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u71	It's important that people see and understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u72	What do creditors propose with regard to pensions with CSR? What are the differences? What do the lenders suggest in their proposal, which you support in here? They propose a pension at sixty-seven. Pensioners who retire after 30 June 2015 will receive a payroll after they have completed their sixty-seven years of age. The government is proposing a reduction in pensions. What do the lenders propose? Gradually abolishing the CSCE by the end of 2016! It should be noted that the abolition of the CSCE was among the prerequisites signed by Stournaras, that is, the Samara - Venizelos government! [[Applause from the ANE wing]] This government clearly says: 'They will not affect mature pension rights! End!’. Thirdly, as far as pensions and the ECHR are concerned. The lenders propose cuts in pensions by 1% of GDP per year, 1.8 billion euros. The Government proposes to suspend application of the zero deficit clause. These are the differences that exist. There are also differences in the insurance system and in the solidarity levy. So here, ladies and gentlemen, we have to decide whether to take measures that are really hard, but which are within the people's mandate and the possibility of survival of the Greek people, or whether to proceed with the decision to accept what the lenders say today and tomorrow will increase. So the answer from this government is: 'We do not accept these orders, we do not follow the recommendations to an independent state. We have exhausted the Greek people's potential with our proposal, which we will also serve, and of course, most of the international analysts support this proposal. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] I have in my hands the text of three economists from the International Monetary Fund, Jonathan Ostri, Atis Gos, Raphael Espinosa, who warn that efforts to curb expenditure or increase taxes will be afflicted very quickly after the crisis. In fact, they propose their immediate abolition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u73	After you've increased taxes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u74	Here we should still see the behaviour of our allies in the European Union. Do you know how much Austria received from interest until 2014? More than 100 million euros. It received interest, 101,73m euros by the end of December 2014, Austria from Greece, for the participation of Vienna in the first aid package. And as mentioned in data from the Austrian Ministry of Finance, published by the Austrian News Agency, the Greek Government has extended them up to 31-12-2014. It is not, therefore, the policy that affects the partners, but the policy that we continue to implement is the policy that breaks down the European Union itself. I still want to make it clear, because there are things on the TVs about the OECD toolbox. Who ordered her? Mr. Hatzidakis, are you here? In response, therefore, to the MEP of the Independent Greek Dimitris Kammenos, it is stated that the OECD toolbox is not an OECD text. It is a paid work of IOBE, which received EUR 100,000 to prepare this toolbox. It is a work confessed by Athanasopoulos himself to the House, which was done by the previous government. Finally, let me move on - and close with this - to the Greek people's scripts of terrorism. Today the International Monetary Fund has not been paid. And today's Friday. They terrorized the Greek people on television that banks will close if the International Monetary Fund is not paid, that we will have tails to the ATMs, which frightened the Greek people out and in violation of all logic. The tornadoro in the first Memorandum in Chania was arrested by the NGO, because he dared to say that ATMs would not have money, and here former ministers are not ashamed to threaten the Greek people and go out publicly and defam the country. The country's not in danger. And it is not at stake, because since August last year, the country paid until May 17,533,000 debts to creditors plus the costs of the same state and did not get one euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u75	Permission Fundes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u76	If you want to see them too, I submit in the minutes the official data of the DPRK. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because Mr. Samaras said he also made it out, I'm filing him with the comparative data on how much was paid in 2015 and how much was paid in 2011, 2012, 2013. In 2015, it is 38,323,000 euros of interest that this government pays, without even missing 1 euros. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] So Mr Samaras should answer by leaving politics if it is true what is written in the newspapers, such as the "PARAPOLITICA" of 29 May, that he asked Mr Juncker not to give a dime to the Greek Government. Mr Samaras should answer the Greek people for the results of his policy. Tell her what she said to Mrs. Merkel on the Chancellery roof. To say 'I'm sorry' to the Greek people - and not to the Chancellor - for his policy. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] And you should all come along. To leave these kinds of policies of subjectivity and diet, the barriers to the application of orders by lenders. To unite as Greeks and decide that the nation will negotiate and not the government. Let's all go together and tell them. This is as far as the Greek people can stand! And then the Greek people will see that they will not accept you with the accompaniment of policemen in public events, but with love, as we and this government accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. He has the floor... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Can you make a little quiet, now that the candidate ward has been quiet?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u78	It is unacceptable what you are doing, Madam President. You insult an entire party. You may be a candidate but speak for yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u79	From the Chair, he mustn't say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u80	The President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Mr Venizelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, today in the House the following fabulous happened. Mr Tsipras asked to inform the House yesterday. Instead of coming and saying something new, something specific, something essential, something that has not already been said to the media, Greek and international, instead of saying something that goes beyond the stereotypes of the government's speech, the Greek people have come and reiterated with metaphysical certainty, what the Greek Parliament said in the election and the first post-election weeks, that an agreement will certainly be reached, because everyone will retreat before the firm attitude of the Greek Government, because in the end, the Greek people, alone, decide. This, as you can see, is not part of a reasonable negotiation unless what he wanted to say to us was the amazing plan, which according to popular arrogance is called the 'hoja plan', which he presented to us. In other words, if you noticed, you mentioned only two of the tough measures of the Juncker text, the abolition of the CSCE and the ten-point increase in the value added tax on PPC electricity accounts, only those! It can be reasonably assumed that since the house is full of animals and the government is suffocated, if we take the cow out, we will breathe. So if we manage to keep the EASA and not to increase VAT too much on electricity, we could be satisfied. Unless Mr Tsipras wants to tell the House today that he is committed - and the House wants to commit him to - that he will not take a step behind the text of the forty-seven pages sent by the government to the institutions, that is to say, the troika, which he considers to be codifying the spirit and the meaning of the negotiations that have started recently after Mr Varoufakis has been removed and the change of the group of negotiators. So it is worth seeing this text of forty-seven pages and comparing it with the "cursed" mail Hardouvelis. I told a TV show "Keep the mail Hardouvelis. You will see that it will be a children's trip in relation to the infamous deal, which will be the train of terror, because it will begin with the first wagon of the small agreement now, by 30 June, and will continue with a great tremor, the third memorandum. Because we have not yet talked about the financial needs since August, we have not talked about the new loan, about how much money, who will give them, on what terms, for how long Greece will still be staying in the memorandum, how many years. For the months that the government has been eating late, so many years we need for every month of delay, a year of extra stay in the memorandum. The amazing thing, then, is that the government, after four and a half months, appears to be in the situation that I said was in force from the second week, since the debate on the programme statements. The ultimate strategic entanglement. Nor is there, of course, a breach of responsibility by a majority. That's why there's a three hundred sixty degrees turn, that is, the full rotation around the axis, which makes you dizzy, neutralizes you and is dangerous. And instead of telling us whether it has a line as a government, if it has a declared majority, if it can agree to its government partner coming out of the 'left' - since they now have a common nationalist basis, and so the'super-right' has become 'exceed-to-left', with a common denominator of nationalist irresponsibility - instead of telling us whether there is a complete plan, if the country has a perspective, it comes and tells us how to place the opposition. He doesn't tell us how he managed to bring the country into a "rue match" position and how he managed to stick it with his back to the wall. He says we'll be the ones. What are we to put on? What does he want us to tell him? Has he told us what he is introducing into the Parliament, what he proposes to the Greek people as a result of the negotiations, as something practical and concrete? Are we saying the ideal, the desired one? But the desire was always extremely mild and friendly to the Greek people. But that was the dilemma we had? What if we choose the good or the bad? The dilemma was whether we're going to go to tough measures to save the situation or to complete destruction. And I don't know if Mr. Tsipras really realised his historic, personal, governmental and party dilemma. If the country goes, even by mistake, to destruction, how should this behaviour be characterised and what impact? If his Government leads to a policy change and a retroactive acceptance of our own policy, without being able to effectively implement it in favour of the country, what is it called? There are two words I do not want to say, despite the fact that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling, were saying them easily and with hatred and you are still telling them to the Committee of Inquiry, which started as a committee of inquiry for the previous governments and therefore the Greek people's previous choices, but it will develop into a committee of inquiry for this government and these choices. You now want an anti-population contagion. What Opposition? The slandererer? The surrogate? The pervert? And who's calling for consensus? Mr. Tsipras, the 'first time in democracy', the 'first time in the left'? Mr Kammens' partner, in the way he previously appeared here, attacking everything, and in particular the institutional environment of the parliamentary system? So what's going to happen? Can you tell us? Do you have a line? Is there a government in terms? Is there a declarant majority that supports the government and in what direction? Is there a plan or are we just eating time, thinking that we are winning it, so that we can go from even worse to the next stage of negotiation, and indeed, of the big deal? Because the country, unfortunately, wants a Memorandum of Understanding 3, a new loan. Ladies and gentlemen, in November 2014, the Eurogroup decided that Greece would go through the precautionary credit line and therefore, the gradual and protected return to the markets. This was because the country was presenting thanks to the great sacrifices of its citizens, positive growth, primary surplus - as a structural surplus, the best internationally, great investment interest and a positive employment balance. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. At the same time, the commitment of the 2012 Eurogroup to further parametric changes in the debt, in order to have a further haircut in terms of net present value, as a follow-up to the damn PSI. I saw today publish a document related to the Greek Government for the restructuring or the new portrayal of the Greek debt, with radical good ideas: "This is the implementation of what we have gained in 2012 with the PSI and restructuring". This document has been drawn up by the 'LAZARD'. He's written it on my command, I've discussed it in depth with Mr. Piggas and Mr. Cohen for too many months before the election. All this is based on the logic that Greek debt as a net present value, due to the long duration and small interest rates, is far less than we think and therefore we can illustrate it differently, reduce capital, increase interest rates. The cost of service is the same. Do you know how many interest we paid in 2010? We paid 14 billion euros. Do you know how many we pay this year? We pay 5.5 billion euros. Do you know what that means? Substantial debt haircut by 60%. We pay less than 40%. These measures, which were reflected in the notorious ‘Chardouvel’ mail, did not include cuts in wages and pensions, only a commitment to maintain pensions in 2016 and 2017 at the level of 2015. There were no group redundancies, there were fiscal measures of about one billion without an increase in VAT, with the exception of hotels. Now what does the government's document say after all the sizes have deteriorated for four to five months? Now the government's document is what it says increase in VAT everywhere, on the islands, on hotels, on packaged foods. It's what says changes in pension, important changes, integration of funds, changes in relation to early retirement. It is what brings back the extraordinary contribution and increases it significantly for incomes of more than EUR 30,000. He's always targeting middle-income. Of course, we are talking about maintaining the ENPIA, making an emergency contribution to businesses, about privatizations, and what is that? It is the starting point, obviously, of the final phase of the negotiation. Is it possible for a government to say 'I wrote the deal myself to get a loan'? It doesn't make any sense. Therefore, measures will be added, they will not be removed in the government's document. Take, ladies and gentlemen, Members and compare the document of the Greek Government forty-seven pages with the "Hardouvelis mail". The big argument is the primary surplus. But the primary surplus has been agreed in 2012 numerically, in the debt sustainability study, so that the International Monetary Fund can lend us, because it must have the same formal argument that debt is viable and therefore, the country is funding. Now, the primary surplus is falling because? Why has the debt been reduced? Why have growth rates increased, or why cannot we have more? We can't have any more. That makes sense. We can't, and we shouldn't have any more. However, this means many years of stay in the memorandum now, because we will need a new loan for debt refinancing and to cover the new deficit. Because, of course, a new budget deficit is being produced. It's not about success. This is the result of the deterioration of all the sizes of the Greek economy. What have we done four and a half months, ladies and gentlemen? What have we won? What's the tough deal? What is the political negotiation? Now that the real decisions have begun, we are excluded from everywhere. We're not invited to Berlin. "The technical negotiation has not been taken into account," said Mr Tsipras. "What was discussed in the Brussels Group has not affected institutions in any way". That's a big success. What are you talking about? What happened to the troika? Is he gone or is he alive and reigning? The Tsipras - Kammenos government, saying that it will not accept any real measures - with pride and lips! - it has already led the country to a recession and to a loss of the primary surplus, before we even enter into a debate on measures and measures. The government said at first - do you remember? - that he does not want to have left-handed doses, he brought the country 'in the amen'. And now she is threatening that if she does not receive the instalments, she will not fulfil her obligations towards the European Central Bank and the IMF. But, from the European Central Bank, we are expecting the ELA drop every Wednesday. And the expectation was that we would get a lot of ELA so that banks would buy Frankfort's money with government bills to finance the public at the expense of their depositors. The government "blocked" the Greek society for four and a half months with false threats, with election and referendum scenarios, with inner-party bumps, with personal agents from its officials - governmental and parliamentary - and presented us with an amazing account of who is good and who is bad internationally. Model of geopolitical and geoeconomic analysis! They're the good Russians against the bad West. We'll get an advance from the pipeline. The Chinese will also be helping by buying bonds. Then there are the good Americans against the bad Europeans. Then it is the good Mrs Merkel - now it is not Madam Merkel - our friend, on whose shoulder we touch and say our pain towards the evil Mr Shoeble. And Mr Yunger's 'baller'. [[Laughers from the wings of PASOK and the New Republic]] He was the good Yunger, while the others were bad, like Mr. Dieselbloom, but now he's become Yunger bad. That's a great analysis, that is, of a shocking level, of theory and politics! And after Mr. Varoufakis went to the Easter of the Catholics and met Mrs. Lagard in Washington and told her that we would pay ad infinitum, in the biennial, our obligations, yesterday became the great move before the "Kugie". We lit the finger! [[Laughing and applause from the wings of PASOK and New Democracy]] We have asked Mrs Lagard to agree to make the payments with the Zambia model, that is, all together at the end of June.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u82	The finger was made by you with...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u83	And he said the International Monetary Fund 'yes', of course! So, what's that? Does it strengthen the country? Is she helping her out? It shall disturb the members of the Board of Directors of the IMF. It is disturbing, for example, the Brazilian representative or India to the IMF. It shows us as unreliable and shows us as a government and a country that makes cheap internal consumption tricks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u84	Is that what you told them outside? Is that how you were negotiating?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u85	The logic is that they will be afraid, that we are threatening them with economic suicide, and we have put the gun to the forehead and their fear that they will not spit on the blood, they will rush to help us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u86	That's a good analysis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u87	Yes, yes! The government, of course, has abandoned the election promises of the Thessaloniki programme. And all this because? What's the forty-seven-page document? Have you read it? Is it a complete and comprehensive agreement? Is there any solution for the investment project, for the development future? Does he have a solution to the debt? There's nothing wrong with it. It is a small, incomplete agreement in order to pay the instalments of the current programme, without any provision of debt, as I have said, except for theoretical discussions in our own logic. "Where they spit, they will lick. They will admit that everything needs to be measured in net, present value and they will admit that we have cut the debt by 180 billion in net present value, 100% of current GDP." No development projection, because this is where the Yunger package is a theoretical one. No provision for financing needs and when the country will come out of the memorandum. When will the country come out of the memorandum, Prime Minister? When? What's your plan, your pursuit? What happens after June 30th? Are we going out on July 1st? We wanted to go out on March 1, 2015. Are we going to wait until the IMF program is over? Even though, are we going out in March 2016? Talk, what's the country's horizon, the plan? When does the country claim a protected return to the markets? What are you cutting her? What are you telling her? What do you say to the Greek people? I'm afraid so. Remember what the government said in the election and in the first post-election days, easy to do. Now, there is no solution to the completion of Memorandum 2 and there is no preparation for Memorandum 3. We're still on the foreword. And if it is intended to be served, eat flesh, national time, in the intervening period the Greek economy will have been weakened even further, our position will have become even worse negotiable. Everyone can assess the results, compare the preliminary words and practical results. It turned out to be a double political fraud. Maybe for some naive people it's a delusion. Some, though, knew or should have known. Firstly, it proved to be an election fraud. False promises were made in cold blood. Lies proposed, lies voted. Secondly, it proved to be the post-election fraud of alleged negotiation, while it turns out that the only negotiation that is taking place is internal and communication, with the country rounded, with the back on the wall. Who will pay, Mr. Tsipras, the cost of the lost semester, the six-month retreat? Tell the Greek people, your ministers, your MPs. You are addressing us again and you want us to support you. Tell us officially what you think of the elections and the referendum. Let's support you. How? What strategy? Is there a government with a declared majority to conclude an agreement and present a comprehensive plan? We didn't see it. From Mr Kammenos's speech, in fact, I believe that there is a direct issue of a declaring majority in the House. You moved on completely different lines. You are sure of a compromise agreement. The other preached the revolution! Pick up the banner! [[Laughers from the wings of PASOK and the New Republic]] Where do you agree? With what growth model? What is the view of the institutions, Parliament, foreign policy, education and public administration? There is still room for manoeuvre, because we have two pillars in our policy. The truth and responsibility. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Yeah, that's what we pay! You will pay it not because of responsibility but because of objective responsibility. You'll pay for it! Don't laugh! Prepare politically and psychologically for what will happen to you! The first condition is that you apologise to the Greek people for the election lies and for the post-election complaints. You must expressly accept the framework of our strategy. Clearly, this is the only possible, the only safe one. And if you have a government and a majority in the House, then we are enough to inform us, to tell you our opinion and, of course, to help the national negotiating team, so that we can take a step, so that we are not inclined, so that we are not all inclined. So you're here to ask us to place us. We're in position. That's our place. Are you ready to answer? Are you ready to choose with the Opposition, based on national need and national strategy, national consensus on the basis of truth? If you have a government - and I do not question it, but it will appear in the critical votes on the final, final agreement and the third memorandum, we want to be in the opposition, but to participate in the national effort, because my language has been hairy since 2012, to speak about the national negotiating team. I visited you on 18 February, two days before the infamous agreement of 20 February. I gave you the texts and told you, read to know what commitments your Government will sign. And I told you: 'Why didn't you do the simple thing from the outset, ask politically what you want but within the schedule of the second extension, until 28 February?' We'd win a lot. You are being treated much better than we have been, much better, scandalously better in Europe! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Worriedly better! Yes, yes! Worriedly better! If Europe turned against someone, that was the previous government. You'll see that soon. In addition, I said to you: ask what we have been dealing with to make use of experience in a national logic and in a national negotiation. The arrogance, complacency, irresponsibility, clandestineness didn't leave you. Now it's hard. Mr Kammenos said - and I agree - that today is a historic day. Keep her in your diary. Remember what is said here and recorded in the minutes of the Greek Parliament, which is the body of national history. Every word counts. Every sentence counts. Any omission counts. And here we are, making the final account before the Greek people and history
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories we attend our meeting twenty students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Thessaloniki Municipal School of Vineyards. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Because it also matters what is heard in this Chamber and with what things some people laugh at, the fact that some people have been sacrificed in the history of this people to be free, cannot cause laughers or be ironic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u89	We don't need lessons. This thing is incredible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u90	The President-in-Office has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I had decided to speak only on the substance today, so that Parliament and the Greek people could be informed clearly, as we are at the most crucial point in the negotiation. I have chosen not to raise the tone, because I believe that at this crucial point, it is important to place all political parties honestly in the face of the great risks that we have before us. And I chose not to raise the tone, despite the obvious criminal responsibilities of the previous governments, who have accumulated so much problems with their political choices and which make the negotiating effort extremely difficult today. From the positions of Mr Samaras and Mr Theodorakis and Mr Venizelos, I note that there is a thread linking them, rather a expectation, I would say, that the country will be led - and soon - to a third memorandum. And, indeed, this memorandum will sign it and bring it to this Parliament by the new parliamentary majority that emerged from the struggles of our people against the logic of the memorandum. I understand your expectation. I understand your secret desire in this way to be justified but also to be able to hide your great responsibilities for the course of the place. But I want to assure you. Don't look unjustly at it. This government and this House are not going to vote for a new memorandum. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And if we give a battle for four months, and if we give a battle hard in adverse conditions, it's because we don't come to sign - as you used to do five years now - what they're bringing us. You signed without negotiating! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I will not forget the tragic confession of a Member of the then government, Minister, that he did not have time to read what he voted for. This is the reality and this is the difference between the attitude of the current government, which makes Greek women and Greek proud. Because we are fighting in tough conditions, in credit terms, which you have never had - because they have rushed to reduce even the Greek government's right to extradition - which cannot make anyone proud in Europe who chooses them in order to knee down a whole people and a government, in a policy that has nothing to do with the founding values of Europe. In these circumstances, we are negotiating. Why? Not only to close your own accounts. Because your bills are trying to close, your commitments are trying to close. We're trying to close your commitments from the memos you signed. This is where we are. But that's not all we're fighting for. We are struggling to give a perspective for the next day. That is why we have tabled a clear plan concerning the restructuring of the debt. No one mentioned this one of the forty - seven pages leaked. You're right, Mr. Samara. You have spoken, you have today defended the high primary surpluses. Unreasonable, but you defended them. And you are right to say that smaller primary surpluses, if there is no debt restructuring, means a new loan to repay the debt instalments we inherited. That is why we demand debt restructuring. But make up your mind. Will you join us in this national effort, demanding restructuring or join the lenders, who require greater surpluses, in other words more bleeding in the private sector, for which you say you care? Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the Chief of Staff Representation once again saying that it is the sacred cow. I would like to remind you, Mr Samaras. In Greece, only Switzerland and another country, from all OECD countries, have a lower percentage of civil servants as a percentage of total employment. And who is this sacred cow to which you refer? Did the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance who fired them and where Mr Mitsotakis had the courage to say that it is a withdrawal from the obligations and that will lead us out of negotiation and will the lenders reset us? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, I would also like to refer to the private sector you are supposed to be protecting. You protect the private sector that you have broken up for five years and the last two and a half you with your choices. Protection of the large private sector: 30% official unemployment. Protection of the large private sector: Thousands of business enclosures. Protection of the large private sector: Lack of development plan, the frozen NSRF. Is that how you protected the private sector? That way? Of course, I heard you say that we are going to bring weight to the middle class. Mr. Samaras, it is important that you do not only circulate to Kifisia, because if you are circulating in the rest of Greece of the memoranda, you will understand that 30,000 atomic income today does not characterize the middle class. I'm afraid so. That is why we tabled this proposal. Because we really need to catch targets, balance budgets, have these low primary surpluses. But, to catch these things, we don't want to lay the burden on the poor, on the poor, on the flats, on the people who endure and take all the burdens on their backs. We have a redistributive logic. We're redistributing the burdens. That's why we said an increase of 0.6% from 30,000 to 50,000, an increase of 1.9% from 50,000 to 100,000 income and 3.2% from 100,000 to 500,000. That is where we want to increase burdens, not the poor. As far as VAT is concerned, our logic is to increase revenue. Yes, indeed, we need to increase revenue. Revenue will, of course, be increased mainly through increased VAT collection. Don't hide behind our finger. The big thing is collectivity, and we all know that. That is why our models at the negotiating table are models that provide for increased collection and flexibility. Watch out, though, what did we testify to the table? Reduction of two units in electricity from 13% to 11%. The electricity is for each household. Reduction of two units in the focus, from 13% to 11%. Of course, we have proposed an increase in hotels, but not above the European Union's average, so as not to affect competitiveness. I would like to point out, however, that we have seen a different aspect of you today, which we had at least two and a half years to see, the antimonetary Mr Samaras. We had forgotten you so since the time of Zappee, or with a short election break that you said you were tearing up the memos. I note, however, in positive terms, your refusal to accept the proposal of the three institutions as it stands. This placement helps me. I would like to tell you even more about what you said about VAT on the islands. Indeed, in the next round of negotiations, I will refer to your position and say that since the Chief of Anti-Population says that we must not reduce, abolish the discount, I cannot do more than Mr Samaras says. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So, Chief of Officer County, I'm recording your position! I'm recording your position!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u92	That's a great deal of negotiation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u93	However, I would like to ask you: When did Mr Hardouvelis send the infamous e-mail, didn't he ask you? Because you are making a big mistake here. You compare the proposal given to us by the lenders with the proposal you have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u94	Oh, no! Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u95	The e-mail was Mr. Hardouvelis of the Minister of Finance, it was your government's proposal, it was not the creditors' proposal. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You will be able to answer. You have Chief to answer. You don't have to answer. So it is pointless to compare the proposal of the lenders with the proposal that you have made. Of course, it is pointless, because you will see that it is almost identical, with the difference that creditors' proposals have lower primary surpluses, that is by 8 billion less than your own policy. By EUR 8 billion less burdens on the Greek people's back than your policy, compared with the primary surpluses for the next two years and by EUR 14 billion over the next four years. I would like to remind you that in this infamous e-mail, which was your suggestion to creditors, you also anticipate the abolition of the VAT deduction on the islands, you also anticipate the abolition of the CSR allowance from 2016 onwards. I would also like to remind you that Mr Stournaras, first of all, brought the issue of the CSCE, if I am not mistaken, was your Minister. So what do lenders do? What exactly did they do the other day, which gave us a text that surprised us? They included in a proposal all the proposals you had at times tabled and negotiated with them in order to implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u96	Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u97	I am pleased, however, that today - and I do not want to comment on this - I do not want to criticise it, nor do I wish to mention it as an important element - you are along the line that it is not accepted as the basis of this text, and that is why it helps the government in its negotiating effort. Ladies and gentlemen, because you have referred to what this government has done these four months and some of the previous speakers have said that the government has brought the country into a worse situation than it was last December, when the elections were held, you are obviously trying to argue by making use of a mistake, both great and the notorious success of the memorials you have been carrying out. What's that error? That the country would come out of the memoranda immediately, that the country would be removed from the strict supervision of the International Monetary Fund immediately and would even enter the most famous Preventive Credit Mechanism. Only you forget to mention that as soon as you dared to visit Mr. Hardouvelis, Mrs. Lagard, in Washington, to report this to her, after your visit to Berlin, you saw the spread orchid coming up, the markets showing the teeth and charged them to the opposition SYRIZA. And of course you knew very well that there was not a chance you could achieve this, with a debt of 180%, which you never put on the table the need to restructure it. And while you knew that, precisely because you had decided that we would go to elections because the majority of the President did not get you out and you planned the so-called 'left parenthesis', to have arguments afterward, you continued the story that you allegedly took the country out of the memorandum. Well, we tell you that at this time we are negotiating hard to finish with your bills, so we can finish with the memos. And there is no way for us to accept an agreement that does not include the prospect of debt restructuring, so that we can safely get out of the market in a short time. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's not easy. It's hard. It is a difficult and hard negotiation, but I am sorry that you do not even have it in your sights. And from Mr Samaras' and Mr Venizelos' position, I realized that there is not even in the perspective of restructuring, impairment, one way or another. That is what we claim. And it is clear that for us there is no prospect of a new memorandum. So in the time we are negotiating, dealing with and implementing policy in difficult circumstances, we have passed a law on the humanitarian crisis, which is already in place and is constantly expanding, despite the fact that the creditors have told us that it is a unilateral action. We voted for the measure of a hundred instalments, which you did not dare vote on, and which the creditors said is a unilateral energy, a measure which gave a breath to hundreds of thousands of households and businesses on the verge of despair. You are talking about a lack of money, because it is about when the recovery procedure opened, but you are not talking about the receipts we have, according to the general Secretariat for Public Revenue. Until June 5, until now, seven hundred and four thousand debtors have joined the arrangement, with an overall regulated amount of 5.65 billion. 368 million have already been collected. As far as the insurance funds are concerned, there have been two hundred thousand debtors, 4,4 billion euros regulation and 163 million euros have been collected. So don't ask yourself why people support perspective, effort, negotiation hard. It is not just the sense of patriotism of a government that is negotiating hard. It is that we have also implemented a policy that thousands of our fellow people have relieved them at a difficult time. We have restored huge injustices that were accumulated in the public sector, with the law on the democratisation of public administration. We've moved on to restore the black to the ERT. We blamed the television stations' debts, what you never dared to think you could charge, because some Greeks have other rights than others, for many years in this place. You've never dared to touch those who were on the Lagard lists, the big public suppliers, the big-workers, the channel owners, to pay what the law says they have to pay. We proceeded to the law for the immediate treatment of the phenomena of violence and corruption in sport and, at the same time, with a multi-dimensional and active foreign policy, we have made Greece a central country in developments in Europe and our region, things that you have never dared to think about, namely that small Greece, indebted Greece, will be able to play a central role in the energy game, but only to implement, implement, implement. We do not implement, we plan, within these four months, and of course under suffocation. However, I would also like to make a reference to something I have heard from Mr Theodorakis. You said, Mr Theodorakis, 'our time is running out'. The time alone of Greece ends, not of the partners. We're on the excerpt. It's like it's only Greek. You are fully adopting - it seems - the view that there will be no impact on Europe, on the Eurozone, on the global economy. But you put a limit on the negotiation on June 14th. Why? Obviously because on June 14, the German Parliament is closing for a few days' holiday. But is it possible, Mr Theodorakis, that Germany's procedural problem has not so far been raised by Chancellor Merkel and you put it in the Greek Parliament? I would therefore like to address and reassure you and the Greek people: the time limits in the negotiation do not exist. The limit for us will be to reach an agreement that is sustainable and fair. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The limit for us will be the dignity and the law of the Greek people and the prospect of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Antonis Samaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u99	Informing, ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, we did not have the substance for these. We had a return to Mr Tsipras's well-known Root, extreme demagogy, insults, nothing specific. And the point is, unfortunately, he tried to get through a fraud. In trying to distribute our own position, he said about having common positions, and so tomorrow he would be able to use this position of the New Democracy, not to make national contact with us, but to make European consultation with others, saying that 'The New Democracy is with us'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u100	Aren't you finally?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u101	I told you, Mr. Tsipras, and don't do anything you don't understand. We will either make a national agreement under the three conditions that I have set you or you will bring the agreement here. Bring the agreement to see it - which we have made today - and then we will tell you exactly what we are voting on and what we are not voting on. All the rest, they're flammable and funny. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And don't ask me if I support your proposal, which you consider to be the only realistic one. What do you want me to say? We do not know what you support, what you support, if you have it declared to your party. For example, do you want me to tell you what it supports and what does not support your party? Would you like me to list for privatizations, PPA, PLAT, TRAINOSE? Ask here if they agree. Do they want it or do they exclude it? Is it excluded by more of the people who want it? Is your proposal so realistic? And you're asking us to support what your people don't want to support? And what do you think we are at last? The most obedient component of SYRIZA you think is New Democracy? And no worse! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you said a series of things incredible. That you've been collecting from TV stations. Are you telling us how much?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u102	We'll collect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u103	You have not put 'will'. You told us we didn't vote for the hundred doses. I'm surprised. We, Mr Tsipras, and we voted for them, and I remind you that our own hundred doses - because we were the first to do so - you fought as much as you could. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're talking about debt. You, in your own statement, said February that the entire debt will be paid by Greece in full and in good time. What's changed since then? Are you coming to tell us words now here that there will be no supposedly new memorandum? And where are you getting the money from? And how are you gonna make the money after August? Until 2017, Mr. Tsipras, is around 45 to 50 billion. Can you tell me where you'll get them without a new memorandum? But, I'm sorry, you won't say a memorandum. You have other words, you'll say a deal. And as a result, you're allowed to make a deal. Memories are forbidden to do. You keep working the world. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And for debt, clear things, you came to our position. We were talking about restructuring, and you were saying debt write off, and you suddenly come to say that you have a view on this issue of restructuring. It bothered you to say about the private initiative. We will continue to be in favour of private initiative. I have explained that a number of taxes that have been introduced do not belong to our ideology. It was an obligation, it was necessary for the place, and we took the place back to development. While you are in favour of taxes, you have no problem. What you do not want is structural changes that lead to a modern, truly European Greece. And I will therefore be with both the self-employed and the investor, and with the small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece, with all. And there cannot be a party, New Democracy, which defends social liberalism to support a tax raid that you maintain and which you want to have. For what? To build the great, your own, the superfood, the party state with which we disagree. In any case, I told you: we called for a national understanding. Of course, I can't get insulted. We have talked about distortions leaving the middle at last, about freedom of private initiative, entrepreneurship, but we have said no slander, stability, credibility and another development policy, which is unfortunately unknown - a word for you now. So bring an agreement to tell you whether we agree or not we agree. But finally say a truth. Because here I see in the letter of the Prime Minister you made on February 20 and you say "It is an agreement", Eurogroup, you, your own words "which effectively cancels the previous government's commitments to wage cuts and pensions, redundancies of workers, increases in VAT on food, tourist infrastructures" and so on. You fooled and you continue today and you're laughing. That's the reality. And don't talk about unemployment. Because if you want, we put the numbers down, but you never talk about numbers, only talk theoretically with many rhetoric variations that touch the slander line. When I, Mr Tsipras, took office as Prime Minister, unemployment was 25.4% and at the highest point that reached, at my own time, was 27.8%, because there was acquired speed. When I handed over, they were 25.3% less the unemployed we delivered than those we started. We found unemployment. Nowadays, in four months already, 25.3%, you did 25.6%, with your official figures, and you are not going to reduce insurance contributions anymore or actually bring the NRP. On the contrary, public works are constantly curtailed. And, of course, you have reached the other point to say that I - the MEP since 1977 - have not only been in Kifissia. I would ask you, once you increase the VAT, to take a walk to the islands together, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you did not understand that, as you said, I accept and agree with you 100%. As you said, if VAT does not come into the islands, the New Democracy and Samaras will be credited, if VAT is finally in place, it will be all yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u104	It's gonna be win-win.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u105	Four months ago you were talking about 1.5% primary surplus. You did it after 1.2%. Today you did it 0.6%. Why? Because every month - and people understand this - revenues are falling despite the fact that you have made an incredible, unprecedented internal payment stop. The economy is sinking into the recession again, the targets are being removed, the budget gap is growing, the citizens will therefore have to pay more measures, so more measures for a third of the targets, which leads us to a new loan and a new memorandum. And because you spoke of 'clean, criminal responsibilities' - your own words - on the policy of the previous government, I would like to say to you again that you are lying. I will read to you, not what Samaras or New Democracy says, I will read to you what the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr. Dobrovski, said earlier: "In recent years Greece has made a maximum effort to adapt and the results began to appear last year. Greece has returned to growth. It was one of the economies with the highest growth rates, about 100 thousand new jobs were created last year, financial stability was ensured, Greece looked forward to returning to markets. It became attractive to investors. It is therefore a pity that we are in this situation now.' I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is what the Vice-President, Mr Tsipras, of the 'good' Communion says. Some of the bad guys don't say 'cause you every single one of you paint who's good and who's bad. And that is what everyone recognizes, only you deny it. Or you probably don't deny it. I will read you another passage, which your experts - your own, I stress - of the Ministry of Finance a month ago: "The progress made in recent years has been reflected in the fundamental macroeconomic sizes and is the result of the important structural reforms that have taken place. The shift towards an extroverted model appears to be achieved both in 2013 and 2014.’ I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what your people say and you haven't got anything wrong yet. So that's what yours say on non paper. I don't want to give any more. There are other things Mr. Varoufakis has said. Speaking of which, then I will. As soon as you sent to the lenders yesterday, a non paper on debt restructuring reads: "In 2014 the deficit fell below the 3% of Maastricht threshold," says the Ministry of Finance, "In structural terms, Greece achieved a budgetary surplus of 1.6% according to the International Monetary Fund". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I repeat that everyone, yours and foreigners, underlines the successful policy of the previous years that brought Greece out into the open. You admit this achievement outside Greece, you say it, deny it to the Greeks within Greece and systematically destroy it. One final word: Do not be surprised at the measures of the Brussels proposal, the hard measures of creditors. Has Mr Varoufakis not proposed the same in his letter of 24 February 2015? I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Did not the letter of Baroufalis include VAT reform, with the exceptions and consolidation of rates, and the abolition of tax exemptions, and the abolition of parafiscal charges, and the reform of insurance, and the continuation of immigration? He's your minister. So what's the surprise for? You were expressly committed. You had it in detail. What didn't you understand? From your great creative ambiguity the tire of Mr. Varoufakis came. You said at the end of the day about 'Zappy'. You often have this conversation. I want to tell you something. There was for the first time the question of the need to have an agenda for reforms in Greece, which, at the time, nobody supported, and now most of them are adopting it, even you. The use of the public property was then first heard - you sign it, too - and then it started. We proposed the abolition of taxes in favour of third parties at that time. We started it then. You now have to accept it, and you too. The elimination of deficits and surpluses were declared at that time. You are now trying to adopt them in your own way. The electronic state at that time, in Zappeion, has declared it and you are now adopting it. And most importantly, because you said before about the Samara opinion that is changing. Since Zappeion, we have said since then that the first memorandum was wrong and we had detected the multipliers in particular that was wrong. He came after the IMF officially in a public report and admitted that these multipliers were wrong. That is what you invoke today, only in the meantime we had corrected it in the second memorandum. So don't talk about the Zappeion. I'd like you to talk, because I have to answer. The question is what you will answer when we talk about Thessaloniki from now on, Mr. Tsipras. I would like to say, therefore, that one thing, perhaps the most serious of all, which you did not understand, was when I heard you talking about the regulation before, how many people got in, and so on. You've also put in Mrs. Valavani's evidence. Incredible things!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u106	Mrs. Savvaidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u107	But what's going on? Citizens are leaving other arrangements, they are not paying other obligations, they are not consuming. I told you, and you probably haven't figured it out. With the arrangements in May, taxes fell out of EUR 1 billion and all five months about 2 billion. Is that the success? Let me not remind you that in these arrangements you are now putting some big-fashioned guys, for whom you have not answered me, with a name. So, Mr. Tsipras, look at what you can do. Every day that passes is at the expense of the economy. Every delay is at the expense of the place. It is no longer the case for the world, and we really believe that the only way is to make this change of course with great understanding. Don't you want the big deal? Your right, of course. Bring over a particular handshake, an article, an agreement, and tell you exactly where we agree, where we disagree, and why we agree or disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Samaras. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u109	I would like Mr Tsipras to be here to give him a personal response to this personal attack, but you too can transfer it to him. The truth is, we have interrupted our contacts with Mrs. Merkel, because we feel betrayed by the many hugs she has made with Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the river wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] To be serious, Mr Pappas, because I saw you laughing before, when Mr Tsipras said that, I must tell you what our source for June 14 is. Our source is the socialists of France and Mr. Pappas. We met just now. I am not used to making personal speeches public, but a moment ago, before entering the Chamber, we met and said: 'We're done'. I say to him: 'When do you finish?'. "Sure", he says, "before 14" and coincided this "before 14" with exactly what the French socialists said to me, that at 14 is the limit, the limit that Mr Tsipras knows, and he boasts he does not know it. Now to go to the other answer, which you must take seriously, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The river is not a tributary to the old system. It is neither yours nor yours, as some of our opponents often show us, nor is it, of course, a tributary to Mr Samaras. The river has a clear flow of its own. I'm going to go to the government and tell her to be careful. We did not vote for memos. Memorandums have passed a number of close colleagues from Mr. Tsipras, some ministers from Mr. Tsipras and some Members from Mr. Tsipras. And they should be twice as careful on the part of the government about the memorials, because I fear that at some point they might be asking us to vote on the next Memorandum. As they have done, that is to say, the votes will not come out, we will be asked to vote on the memoranda that they have named a little differently. 'Development agreements', I hear, 'Reconstruction agreements'. So I move on to keep about time, as I did in my first speech. Mr. Tsipras mentioned the achievements. As a major achievement, it insists that it is to tackle the humanitarian crisis. For the first time in the world, a humanitarian crisis of 200 million is being faced. One of them is a lie. Of course, Mr Tsipras also mentioned as a big achievement, a left achievement, the regulation of debts with a few instalments. We had said that before, but Mr. Tsipras was not in the Chamber. It's not right now, but tell him. I ask, why are you sometimes confusing us with who you are? Was there any reason to regulate the millionaires' debts? Not even the previous government tried to do it. We have asked you to set specific criteria for the regulation of debts. Not all doses, but doses for those in need. And what did you do? You have arranged the debts even for people who have in the banks or their property multiple assets from the ones they owe to the Greek State. Debts were set on people who owe 10 and 20 million to the Greek State, when their properties are multiple. And you are showing it to us today as a left-wing policy! I would like to ask two - three questions, which have not been answered by the President-in-Office's second speech. I ask, and I was very noble, I asked in my previous speech, but I would like to ask now a little harder, a little more clearly: what is the relationship that Mr Tsipras wants to have with the drachma troika? That needs to be made clear. The drachma troika exists in the country. It's half the SYRIZA. The last decision of the Central Commission confirms this. They are, of course, the ANLLs and, of course, the Golden Dawn. What is the relationship and what is the tolerance limit for a Prime Minister who wants to be the Prime Minister of a European country with the drachma troika? He'll have to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u110	(Secretary of State): You are a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u111	There's one more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u112	(Secretary of State): You are a liar! Not one... (Didn't hear)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u113	There's one more thing. When will it end?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u114	(Secretary of State):...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u115	Please contact the Prime Minister if you have any questions. There is one question that the Prime Minister should answer today and does not answer: When will the negotiation end?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u116	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u117	Mr. Fisherman, don't make gestures!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u118	You can watch your right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u119	Come on, come on, Mr. Theodorakis! Because this is where we see a lot of things, and we see what others don't see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u120	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u121	Mrs. P.B., Mr. Quick got up first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u122	Mrs Constantopoulos, you have also proved in the past - and you should not be exposing yourself - that you have a problem with your vision on the extremes right. You don't take very care of them. So I ask the government: when will the negotiations end? It won't be June 14th.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u123	I look forward, Mr Theodorakis, to your party participating in the committee to claim German debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u124	What are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u125	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u126	Mrs. Konstantopoulou, I have no mood...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u127	Because you have a serious problem participating in this claim that goes to Nazi crimes in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u128	Mrs. Konstantopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u129	Christ and Holy Mary!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u130	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u131	...I'm not that old in this House, but I think what you're doing is at least unacceptable. But since you put it, I have had the courage in Berlin following my meeting with the Vice-Chancellor to raise not as a moral issue posed by the Prime Minister, the issue of the mortgage. I did it in Berlin, and that's the position of the river. [[Applause from the river wing]] I did not speak with another language in Berlin and with another language in Athens about internal consumption. That's the river. I will not continue with Mrs Constantopoulos. But I have many stories to remind her - another time - of the defence of human rights, of women. You say we don't know each other's history in this small Parliament. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u132	What can you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u133	We... (Didn't hear)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u134	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u135	You want answers to that? Oh, no. Let's leave it. Mrs. Constantopoulos doesn't want to. Another time. Not today. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We have collected the announcements from the women's organizations a few years ago - we will talk about them then - and some SYRIZA officials, who were then writing in "AUGY", for those who cover the rapists. But I'll see you next time. I asked before the government when it intends to end the negotiation. Time is unlimited? What's the limit? There's no limit or we can talk, talk, talk, go out on the windows, drink buffaloes, tell the newspapers that the debt will be lost, it's air, so there's no need to negotiate. You know the government, you know, left-wing comrades - I address only to you and obviously for good reasons I do not address your far-right allies - that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u136	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u137	Do you know that every day sixty businesses are shut down, six hundred businesses are closed every ten days, and that they lose their jobs five hundred, six hundred employees every day? Is there a private economy for you, or are there only a few voters who need to give them an account, not to mention the one who keeps the country alive, that is, the private economy? Next question: Mr Tsipras said at the outset that he would change Europe. He didn't make it. It's a little bad. Who are our allies today? Can you tell us one of your allies in Europe, Mr. Tsipras? Who's left? It's old, it's also on facebook. You didn't even get the twelfth of Cyprus. Is there a country, a minister who supports us in this negotiation? How'd you make it that way? How have you even achieved socialist parties that are in power to express their doubts about this endless debate you are having and to say that you are going there without a programme, without positions, without an objective? You insist, Mr Tsipras, that you are amazed at Mr Juncker's proposals. You have the right to say that 'we have been surprised by Mr Juncker's proposals. Hugs, hand - hand, conversations, coffee. Didn't you know what we're being prepared for, if we're ready? Is that the role of the Prime Minister? Shouldn't he have realized in this case four months now that we're stalling, something's coming? You know what? There is the big question, Mr Tsipras: what is your proposal? Is the article in the paper 'LE MONDE', which you said there should be no early pensions, that you are progressing privatisation? Is this your party speech after Riga? Is that what you're saying to Mrs. Merkel? What's your proposal? You cannot be three-sided, because I fear, in addition to others, that you are dizzy with your MPs. My last question: do you accept the National Trading Team, Mr. Tsipras? I'm not talking about now, about the five, six, seven days left. Do you accept the national negotiating team on the big debt case, on the country's new financing needs? Allow me, but because you are not very famous for the choices of people you make - I will not talk about certain persons, but if you look around, you will understand what I say - I think this is a golden opportunity that gives you the River. So grab the opportunity, because out there are people who can help. I do not mean - and I have said so before - Members of parliament or representatives of the river, of the PASOK or of the New Democracy. Alas! But I am talking about a national of Greece that can be formed and can help negotiate the country. A responsible government should not be confined to 35% and should think it can solve the major issue of the country, what will stifle our children, only with some amateurs in politics and some former members of other parties. The agreement, Mr Tsipras, is not a "crowd" that will eventually come out of the hat. He wants a job, he wants a plan, he wants a bold. You didn't. I hope at least you are aware of your historical responsibility and wish you will not stay in history as Prime Minister of "Unfortunately we have failed", but of "Fortunately we have survived". We, in spite of the attacks that we are under attack - and we are under attack, are writing on "AGE"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u138	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u139	You know who. The advisors of Aki Chohazopoulou for years have been writing on "AGEY"... [[Applause from the river wing]] ...and they say about us, who have now entered politics, about our political responsibilities. So we can be eaten daily. We will do our national duty. And I say it and I say it again. We have no reason to play with the Greek people. We don't want to avenge any government. If this agreement comes, we seven humble members of the River, once this agreement has been approved and approved by the European Union, our allies, the country's long-term allies, will vote for this agreement. This does not mean, however, that from us you will get a white check. From the next day we will be in the field of real policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u140	Because a lot has been said and because they will not, of course, be left unanswered, in the committee for claiming German debts, which yesterday listened to the Committee of the General Accounting Committee of the State which determines between EUR 280 billion and EUR 340 billion on the Greek claim, your party does not participate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u141	You cannot answer everything, Madam President! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u142	You're a party leader?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u143	And it is unexplained why, of all the committees alone, you do not participate in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u144	You're not a party leader yet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u145	You are welcome to participate and contribute to this claim.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u146	It's challenging what you're doing! You're insulting the process now. It's out of order what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u147	Read the Rules of Procedure better. Second one...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u148	You're not a party leader yet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u149	Since everyone's history is well known to the service of rights and truth and to the service of slander and pimps, my own contribution to human rights is to present in the Minutes this debate the official announcement of the UN independent expert who came out three days ago, and it proves that it is not the Greek Government alone and that the memorials destroyed human rights and threatened democracy. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The President of the KIC Parliamentary Group, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u150	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u151	Are you President of the House, or are you party president?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u152	You are a Member of Parliament who has not voted for the memorandum, Mr Psariano, according to your President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u153	Make your party first and then say what you have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u154	Madam President, what will happen now? What's gonna happen? Will you speak with MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u155	Mr. Koutsubas has the floor. Time begins now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u156	I would like to start with this comment, anyway. I wanted to say this at the beginning of the debate. Because we're all busy. Not everything depends on the programme of either each Government representative or Prime Minister, nor on anyone else. In other words, it also wants a seriousness in this process. Continue unsatisfactory, with fast track procedures in the House. You, too, become synonymous with one function in the footsteps of the previous ones. You're doing a process that you have both the knife and the melon. You are not aware of anything in good time. You are only aware of all the e-mails you have exchanged from Greece - or personally at meetings where you are going - of all the discussions you have had between you and your partners, knowing your "pink" now, because the red are over. You know both the 'black lines' and the views of your partners, lenders, the troika, the institutions. You know who has one and who has the other viewpoint. The House, in fact, has midnight. You're supposed to let us know today, by the way. Of course, you also had the requirement from the beginning to place us. Of course, we are. We, as a komb, were clearly placed on a number of issues. Until yesterday, when your Members were asking you 'what is going on with the negotiation and what is the proposals of the lenders and what your proposals', you told them that at this stage it is good not to know much about them. Of course, not that you especially enlightened us tonight with what you said. You didn't say anything new. We read these every day in your statements, in your articles, in interviews of your staff etc. You don't even let your people know. Of course, how we are interested in your inner-party function, the level of your inner-party democracy and consistency. That's your business. Let us solve this on your own with your parliamentary group. But you cannot behave in this way against the other political forces of the country. If you want substantial information and debate, if you really were interested in the views of the political parties, in particular the JRC, you had to take responsibility for having all parties informed in good time. We personally did not have as a party information. The JRC didn't have one. It would not be difficult to send us these forty-seven pages instead of reading them from the leak in German newspapers or I don't know where else. You could have sent us the creditors' suggestions. After all, they went public too. We heard from the reporters. Fortunately the media are in place, and we are informed from there, so that we can come and place ourselves tonight. Because I don't think anyone has the requirement either of you, Mr. Tsipras, with a 20-minute, 20-minute speech, of what you say and what the lenders say, and what Juncker told you the other night, to put us in place and, as you say, to "supply" to help your line and your proud negotiation, as you say. However, I would like to say again that we have been placed - and we have been - responsiblely, and let us not have the opportunity needed for such a serious issue. In addition to the fact that we do not know exactly what you say and what the proposals are, except for the press, we learn and that the House is convening while, for example, we are in Cyprus. And I don't know where else the other political leaders were or what other commitments they had made. Of course, we weren't in Cyprus for recreation. Yesterday, we went to the start of the 22nd ACP-EEC Conference this afternoon. Of course, we had a programme for meetings with the Cypriot leadership there, with the President of the Republic of Cyprus, which we did, because there are developments on these issues too. Of course, you still have the courage to talk about consensus and ask for a minimum consensus limit here in this House from everyone. You cannot help agreeing to the procedures that we are going to follow, the years we are going to have, and when there will be a substantial debate here, anyway. Mr Tsipras, we believe that you have not raised the tone, as you said, because you have been in the footsteps of the previous ones, which, of course, you have convicted them from election. In fact, you admitted that you are preparing a new agreement - a memorandum. You'll get it. You may not bring it now, until 14 June - which will not close from what it looks like, as Mr Theodorakis said before - but that is what your partners have agreed, even if you do not call it that. Because the partners have agreed on this: they will not call it a Memorandum. They've done you the favor. You did not want to see a troika and everyone is now told by three institutions, as you requested. Good for you. You don't want a memorandum, you want a deal. They'll call it a deal, too. But the essence for the people will be the same. As for the recovery of the losses, which is a request, we are also putting it to the Greek people as a party and no talk. Since you have already admitted today - not directly, that is to say, but you have said so - that you have agreed that you will not hurt any of the previous memoranda, namely the applicable laws, and they are four hundred as a whole. The JRC will neither enter into the logic of what is best, the e-mail Hardouvelis, the e-mail Varoufakis, the new agreement that the government is preparing and suggesting, etc. And only what you have told us today is that you propose or have as red lines, as a limit, etc., to prove the truth. And just to get 23% of VAT, for example, which will go up to a number of foods, we understand that it will be paid by the unemployed person, the frontier worker, the retired person. He will be burdened with this 23% of VAT on basic foods. I'm not talking about the rest. And that's not all. Basically, you have started a dangerous game in acute contradictions, in competition. In fact, you put the American curators in the Aegean Sea, the sovereign rights, the territorial integrity of our country, the curate at the EEZ, for which treasury, "partners" in the exploitation of the Aegean, the main wealth of our country. We believe that the government is talking about a proud negotiation, and basically means the game with these contradictions, with these competitions and differences, which exist and the dispute that is taking place within the European Union, namely the three institutions - the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, etc. - in the context of the troika alliance, so that we can get to know and understand the Greek people as well. We have neither questioned nor questioned that the government has tactics and strategy. She's chosen her. That's her. Of course, the others also have tactics and strategy, they have lenders, they have partners, and they are not less experienced, nor less intelligent than the governors, than Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. The substance is one in our opinion. Government and partners are actually paving the way for a new agreement - a memorandum, which will also contain anti-grassroots measures and anti-grassroots commitments for the people in all areas, but others will, obviously, be in a more direct position in the next few months, but they will be longer in time. This policy is a dead end to the people. The way out, in our view, lies only on the JRC's proposal, and in this respect we call on the people to support it more decisively, more forcefully in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we have once again seen from the point of view of Officerial Representation not to mention the real debate that the government has asked for today, with regard to the proposal of the lenders, with regard to these measures, which are essentially the tombstone, both tombstone and to the Greek people and to the Greek economy. We have seen that there is no debate on the government's proposal, on a proposal, which is measured in every sector, at percentages, at costs. It is a proposal which could be adopted as a national position and constitute a national negotiating document, a proposal which could, having been adopted by the entire Greek people in this Greek Parliament, also represent the end of this era. On the contrary, we heard incredible things. Mr Samaras came to us today and told us again that the Memorandum of Understanding was wrong. But he had gone to the Chancellor's roof, Merkel, and he apologized for the wrong policy, which he exercised, and voted against the first Memorandum. And if it was wrong the first memorial, why did he vote for the second one? Why did he vote for the third? Why did he become a partner with PASOK and Mr. Venizelos? Why did he become a partner with all those who voted for the first Memorandum? Why did he put his parliamentarians' representatives who voted for the first memorandum and not just voted for it and supported it, but now they say that they do not regret and that the first memorandum was the right move? With these far-right elements, which he took to the New Democracy, he basically adopted the support of the first memorandum. He is again with Mrs Bakoyannis, who voted for the first memorandum and was deleted from Mr Samaras for the first memorandum. So what's wrong? Is it wrong to have the whole group that got the sign of a party and turned it, not into a SYRIZA component, but to a PASOK component, a crumbling PASOK? I told you good, I'm telling you bad. And here's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u159	Mr. Kammenos... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u160	Can I tell you something, Mr. Venizelo? I with PASOK have no particular problem with that, because you're stable in your positions. You followed the line of George Papandreou. You supported him, he abandoned you, and you supported this policy so far, from the first memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u161	Come to the conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u162	Is he coming to the conference? Now we're making news!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u163	Don't interrupt, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u164	I told you about Papandreou, but you didn't listen to me at the time when it was a good time. We have heard Mr Samara say about the policy which he has pursued and which he has proposed to the Zappeli. It has, as a first example, taken advantage of the real estate of the public. At the Ministry of National Defence, the ETHA, the National Defence Fund and the three arms funds have 34 billion euros, 32.8 billion euros. Do you know from the use that Mr. Samaras has made of what the N.S.S.S.A.'s time brings to the military commanders of the Armed Forces? A million euros. In other words, such use is an example of international economic literature! No use of public property has been made. But you know what they did? They bought some real estate by the banks, according to the government, some contractors and some publishers, in order to support them in the dirty war, to use them as "foots". As far as the other editor, who continues to carry out the opposition's work, is currently pending a decision by the Court of Auditors to give back EUR 4.5 million in a bag to take it out of the street, and while the group has cleared it from the criminal group, the Court of Auditors is pending the decision. But the son of the judge who has the case was appointed to a hospital board. That's the connection to the complication. They are still the ones who are using to hit that government by filthy means. And of course, next to you is the phenomenon called Potami, Mr Theodorakis. They came to ask whether I paid out of my pocket the expenses I had at my wife's feast to table with relatives, while I gave my own card and the expenses I paid for at the hotel. You want me to file my card to the House? I'll testify! It is shameful to collide, a new party, and even to use the word that the Independent Greeks are "neutral right". Who's right-wing? Mr. Mavraganis is far-right? Mrs. Kundura right-wing, Mr. Burned far-right? Am I right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u165	It's Nicolopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u166	Nicolopoulus is right-wing. Yes, sir. And because he's Nikolopoulos far right, according to you, they're all the others. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. It's the right-wing ones who were born to become the winners of the system. Top right are those who go to interview Michaeliaco when the Golden Dawn was excluded from all the media. These are the right-wing ones who today say about Chohatzopoulos and they were the advisors of Yiannis Papantoniou and Mr. Simitis! Open the internet and put: "Theodorakis - Simitis, Theodorakis - Papantoniou". You'll find a hundred pictures of hugs and whole shows to support the Shiite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u167	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u168	So, should you be careful of your words a little? And because in the anti-Cancellor you told him about German compensation, you told him in his ear. Because you can talk to him in the ear. But when the time came for the committee, you did not participate in doing the good and attacked the President of the Parliament. That is the truth and that is the role you perform. And you come here, as a birthplace, from the birth of the party - paternala, without needing you. 'The time will come', you say, 'please beg us'! It's not time to beg you. That's the myth of the lantern! [[Applause and laughter from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You said: 'Start the opportunity'! What should we grab? What chance to grab? "Let Greece seize the opportunity to bring you," he says, "in a patriotic government". With what position on Skopje, German allowances, on national issues? Consider, then, how you speak and what you characterize people. And when you have the courage when we take you to court, come. Do not beg from last week and say "My lawyer will be sick" next week! I mean the trial we had last Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the President of PASOK. He said repeatedly twice that there is no evidence. That this government cannot go through its decisions. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! Now put forward a motion of censure, see who has the declared and who does not have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u169	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u170	Let's see who the Greek people support and who does not support. And if you do not have the courage to table a motion of censure, do not press too much. Because, at times, demands for elections are accepted. (Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u171	Thank you to the President of the Independent Greeks and the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos. The President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Mr Venizelos, has the floor. There has been a self-restriction, which I hope will be confirmed by the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u172	Madam President of Parliament, because you are a model of self-limitation, I will follow your advice and example.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u173	I really appreciate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u174	Me, too. In fact, it is mutually and evidently appreciated. Ladies and gentlemen, let us ask ourselves what message Mr Tsipras sent today by speaking to the House, provoking this debate. Who was he addressing? Did he address the international audience? Did he send messages to creditors, partners, European governments, to international institutions? Unfortunately, it was addressed only at the inner audience. Not in society, but at SYRIZA's inner-party audience and next door, the Independent Greeks. In fact, he has today raised Mr Kammenos as a custodian of rigid radical left policy. I wonder how the SYRIZA officials feel, the ministers, the MPs, seeing Mr Kammenos as a rule, to guarantee their orthodoxy and their consistency. What's happening now - note it! - Mr. Tsipras will pay very much in a few weeks. To think: Has the country's negotiating position helped today's debate and Mr Tsipras' attitude? Has it helped to change the internal political climate, to form a single national front? Has it shaped the conditions of consensus or has it finally repeated challenges? I heard him in his denture. I have heard - and I am sorry to say - the clever way in which he was addressing the President of the New Democracy and with this in the Civilian Opposition. I heard him say: 'In any case, accept what we have said' or 'in any case, thank you for helping me to say that I will not accept a change in the VAT of the islands', a change in the VAT of the islands proposed by the government two days ago with the text of the forty-seven pages and that Mr Varoufakis had actually proposed in his text of March 2015, when he analysed the content of the agreement of 20 February, the one which many of his colleagues in the government have said to him: we have badly signed it. We didn't understand. We had to ensure funding. We got a memorandum without money, and they took us all 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund. What we heard from the Prime Minister's mouth was a responsible national position for the Prime Minister of a country, which is in the situation where Greece is and is negotiating and having financial needs, development problems, which must sometime come out of the markets and become sovereign and independent and not dependent on the loans of its partners? Or was it a miserable, petty, micro-participatory management of the juncture? How long will today's debate last? What is its added value? For how many hours will we remember her as a contribution to a national effort? Mr Tsipras is proud to say: 'This government will not sign Memorandum 3!'. Yes, sir! Will he sign the Small Completion Agreement on Memorandum 2? Will it take the remaining instalments, so that it can meet the urgent and urgent financial needs for July and August? And when is that gonna happen? In what terms? Unless he means he's not going to sign a Memorandum 3, as he meant he wouldn't sign the extension of Memorandum 2. Because we have listened to the proud statement and the pre-election and post-election, 'We will not sign an extension', but Mr Varoufakis has signed up to the extension of the main financial facility agreement, which refers explicitly to the programme, which expressly refers to the Memorandum, which is, of course, the result of the agreement of 20 February and constitutes the legal basis for the ongoing negotiation. He recalls the other proud statement: 'We do not want to see doses. Is it enough for us to have an ELA and an increase in the threshold for interest rates?'? We are now making a 'crash' for a dose and saying: if the dose does not come, we are not paying our own obligations. And we also send a message of proud and rigid attitude, calling on the IMF to get all payments to the end of June! The end of June is coming. It's June 5th. The 19th and 30th of June will be here. Did not the ministers of the government and SYRIZA say the same thing about unilateral actions in the indebted debt, about an international conference, about a haircut? Now? Parametric changes, the 'Lazard', to look again at the data as we had shaped them. Unless all of this is a trick that is aimed at naives, if Mr Tsipras - I will use a term - 'nominals' - is said - he means he will never sign a memorandum 3, because memorandum 3 in the new world of Orwell is called a new development agreement. In fact, it's called "New Economy Development Plan", SANO! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] I am therefore addressing Mr Tsipras who is absent - especially when I have received the floor - but I imagine that he is being replaced here by his top ministers, and I say to him: Mr Tsipras, when you will bring an additional EUR 1 to the debt, come and tell us, say it good! When you bring smaller interest rates to one tenth of the unit, come and tell us, say good! When you bring in an extension of the average debt period by one month, come tell us, say you good! However, I do not accept questions from the press: 'Will you support the government in its efforts to restructure the debt?'. You join our policy. I said it in my initial speech. You're licking where you spit. Because you blamed what happened in 2012, the haircut, the restructuring, the "cursed" PSI. And now, with our advisors, 2012, you are trying to restore our texts, our arguments, that is to say, to use the framework that we have shaped. And Mr Tsipras has to reconsider what he said as a heavy insult to our patriotism, that creditors draw arguments from e-mail Hardouvelis. What? From the text by which we refused to accept the pressures of Europeans and the IMF, from the text with which we wanted to draw the main political argument that additional budgetary measures cannot be taken, that wage and pension cuts cannot be made, there can be no changes at work. However, the basic question arises, and there is also the opportunity of Mr Tsipras' tritology: Can he present to the House as Prime Minister an elementary timetable? Well, he won't sign Memorandum 3. When will the country come out of the memorandum? What is the aim, the objective, the commitment? No, from the memorandum as a word. From the Memorandum as a situation, even if this is called a development policy plan. When? What's the target? When will we return to the markets? When are we going to stop relying on a new loan that sets terms? I said a month and a half ago that the existing funds will be repacked and presented as Memorandum 3 on new terms. Now it is not enough for the existing funds in Memorandum 2. What are the financial needs of the country for 2016, 2017, 2018? What does the Treasury say, assuming we need support for 2018 as well? And I wish we could stop there. The amounts that the country needs internationally are, unfortunately, estimated at 50 billion if it does not come out of the market. Good or bad, it is a sovereign state that borrows at reasonable rates. This is why the debt is called "principal" and the "principal" bonds in most of the languages of the world. Say something to the House, to your MPs. Why are they fighting? Why do they get passionate? Why do they support you? With what perspective? Say something to the market, to the entrepreneurs, to the unemployed who expect a job. We had the plan. And the plan was not ours, it was a Eurogroup decision. Kuveda, a question of psalm bex, to my report that the exit to the prudential credit line was not a pursuit of the government, but a decision of the Eurogroup of November 2014. And, practically, you present this text of forty-seven pages, the proposal of your Government. We have seen the contents, we have seen the burdens on society, on citizens, on the market and on the economy. We have seen the tax measures. Is this text an inalienable limit for you? What do you think? What do you want the House to say today to support you? What do you want from us? Your government partner is swept away and tells you "we have declared". Do you have a statement? Go ahead. We have said that we are supporting a national effort, but we will not make it easier for a government to implement these policies, not just in the economy, but in foreign policy, in security, in education, in institutions. Mr. Tsipras comes in and says, "But is it possible? We are in credit asphyxiation." When? In 2015, with the country just before the exit. What credit asphyxiation was the country in 2009, 2010, 2011, in 2012? You imagine the tough negotiation, don't you? Come on, let's tell you, let me tell you personally what it means to deal hard... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] ...to put you on a discussion table about whether the country will come out of the euro tomorrow, whether there will be a participation in the debt cut voluntarily, supposedly, throughout the whole private sector worldwide at more than 95%, as to whether the plan of exceptional conditions for the banking sector in Greece will be implemented or not. Come and answer these. Come and speak, representing a country with 12.5% of GDP of primary deficit, which, if it were to be steadfast, outside the eurozone and outside the economic system, could not really meet the state's operational needs: neither wages nor pensions nor hospitals nor schools nor welfare. Now we're experiencing credit suffocation conditions. Nothing compares to what we've experienced. You have slandered all this, you have contagious it, you have altered it in the consciousness of the Greek people. This will be paid dearly! In order not to pay, however, the country and the cost to be just a political cost your own and not a national cost, you can use the debate as it is in all the parliaments of modern parliamentary democracies, without smiling, without arrogance, without this complacency that democracy was first expressed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u175	You to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u176	Yeah, I'll do it to you. Personally, you are exposing, insulting and humiliating the country you are enjoying, without your consciousness of your responsibility and politically and personally. And you have the nerve to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u177	To us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u178	To you. Yes, to you and Mr. Tsipras, who appointed you and held you in this position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u179	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u180	Yeah, listen to what the Opposition says! Respect her!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u181	Calm down, Mr. Venizelo! Mercy! You're pulling our fingers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u182	Because if you do not respect dialogue and truth, then unfortunately the omens are very bad for the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u183	Your swan song is that, Mr. Venizelo! Your swan song!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u184	I would remind you that the government has taken a vote of confidence in the House and this is called the 'Political sovereignty'. To remember sovereignty in its democratic sense too. The 12.5% deficit, I feel, is subject to criminal investigation, which is currently under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u185	I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u186	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u187	I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u188	You don't have the floor. There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u189	I want the floor on the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u190	You spoke five times as much as you expected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u191	You have no right to deny me that. I want the floor on the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u192	Have a seat, Mr. Venizelo. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u193	No, you will sit in your seat and be careful! I want the floor on the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u194	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u195	I have the floor - and you will give it to me - on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u196	Do you want the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u197	On the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u198	On staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u199	On the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u200	I give you the floor on staff for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u201	Listen, Madam President, the Rules of Procedure state exactly when and how the President of Parliament is addressed to the House, what content is and how the President's announcements to Parliament are made. These interventions, the so-called charming, the so-called threatening, the allegedly hypocritical, are made in violation of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and of the Constitution. You must honor your position. If you fall too big, please adjust your behavioural sizes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u202	We will also invent the forward position in order to adapt to your prerequisites. However, Parliament's Rules of Procedure state that the President speaks from the Chair - read the Rules of Procedure - and when he wants to speak about the substance of the matter - unfortunately what has been heard before was not a substance of the matter - then speaks of the Step. It's over with the staff, which I gave you the floor. For his teratology, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, despite the irritation of the last minute, I think it was a parliamentary procedure which deserved the trouble to happen. And I think we all have to point out that, despite the fact that we are in a critical negotiation process, we have already called on the House on the basis of the Rules of Procedure to inform the House of developments, of the ongoing negotiation process and of the positions of the Heads of State or Government, something that has not been done - and I would like to remind you of it - not even during the first negotiation procedure - perhaps I am wrong, if it has been done for once, I do not remember from George Papandreou - but certainly did not take place in all subsequent procedures during Mr Samaras' term of office. The House met only after the end of the signing of critical decisions on the future of the place. As far as our efforts were concerned, I think it was a useful process, because all the parties' leaders were given the opportunity, with responsibility for being placed, to give their opinion on the critical problems of the next period, to put themselves first and foremost - and I am taking this - in terms of the proposal that the Greek Government has accepted from the three institutions. And it's not the Juncker proposal, it's the three institutions' proposal. I can conclude from all the positions, that we are rightly making progress in not accepting this proposal as a basis for discussion. Of course, there is evidence that there can be substantial convergence, such as low primary surpluses. The Greek Government will, however, continue to negotiate with a view to reaching a socially just and economically viable agreement, with the main objectives of the low surpluses, which means ending the harsh austerity and debt restructuring. That is the objective that can lead the country safely and soon again to the markets, to have, that is, an agreement that will mark both the investors and the markets that this self-evident and self-esteemous prophecy of exiting the country from the Eurozone ends. At the same time, however, this agreement will protect pensions which have been affected in the last five years, the wages, which will have a redistributive effect, but with a redistributive logic, which will protect labour and enable workers who have seen labour relations falling apart, at least, from struggling to fight through collective bargaining. This agreement will also have a strong investment programme, because, finally, we must end the logic of budgetary discipline and that Greece, and Europe, too, should return to development. The development agenda needs to be restored. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting hard, difficult, in order to defend the Greek people's right to progress with dignity, to restart to its feet, to re-establish the productive base of the place that has been dispersed in recent years by a programme that failed, the programme of internal devaluation, which has not been able to compete with the Greek economy. We are fighting the Greek people to stop being Europe's experimental animal! But we are also fighting for the whole of Europe. I do not agree with some who have been placed, saying that Greece is isolated. Greece is not isolated. The Greek people, in this effort, are not isolated. I do not just want to talk about support for our efforts in this Parliament, which is not the left-wing party, the small left-wing party. I will not go into the posts and visits of Members of Parliament, Heads of Parliament, Gianni Pitella, the ecologists, the green ones. However, I would like to talk about the unprecedented support we receive - the eighteen economists published today at the FINANCIAL TIMES confirms this, among them Stiglic and others - who speaks of Europe's hope. Europe's hope is for the government to relegate Europe to Greece and at the same time consolidate Greece's presence in Europe. I want to refer to two strategies that conflict with this effort: it is a strategy that wants a Europe of solidarity and democracy, a Europe where there will be the democratic choice of citizens, which will not be the same after the elections, because a country is in a programme. If that logic applies, then the countries on the programme must stop having democratic procedures, stop having elected governments, ministerial headquarters sitting in technocrats and decide on the future of their country. On the other hand, it is a strategy that wants a divided Europe, a Europe of tough budgetary discipline, a cruel punishment for the inexperienced. These two strategies conflict in this negotiation. The peoples of Europe see this development with their breath. It is certain that those who really believe in Europe and the founding values of united Europe are not proud of the cynicism of the negotiating suffocation imposed on Greece and the new Greek Government. And it is certain that those who understand - and understand - that evolution in this battle is not only about Greece. The development in this battle concerns the whole of the European peoples and states, Europe's progress towards the future. Those who think that a punishment for Greece will only hit Greece and that the next day in Europe will be like the previous one. Those who think that if the second strategy prevails, the division strategy, the strategy that some conservative circles - extreme conservative circles - have today vis-à-vis Greece - but also the future of Europe itself - will only concern Greece. The 'cambana' will be hit mainly for the countries of the European south, even if they today accept the positive effects of the quantitative relaxation of the Draghi programme, this will last for a certain period of time. In a year and a half from today, Italy will continue to have a debt of about 130% of its GDP and close to two trillion. Of course, it also concerns France, it also concerns Germany. I would therefore like to reiterate that this battle will be carried out with conviction and confidence, in response and in response to the Greek people' s mandate, but also in its continued support. This battle will be fought with a patriotic sense of responsibility. And this battle, we are sure that at the end of the day if we win it, everyone will benefit those who have criticised us today and those who are also going to criticize us tomorrow, because that is the quintreaty of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the procedure and point out that, despite the difficulties, I have my optimism. We are closer to a sustainable and fair solution, despite the fact that in recent days we have had a development that has displeased us all. I am sure, however, that in the next few days, the Greek position and attitude, which is consistent and realistic, will be vindicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been completed during the Special Agenda. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S2-commons.u205	With the consent of the House at 23.38 hours the sitting on Monday, June 8, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
