ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Starting I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme "The Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and a training meeting from the 11th Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Elementary School of Eretria and the Private Elementary School 1st Educational Haidari. The House welcomes them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Articles 43A and 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Mr Ilias Kasidiaris and Mr Konstantinos Karagunis. The reports of 29-4-2015 were announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics. These two reports have been provided by the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics. The members of the committee in the case of Mr Cassidyer agreed by a majority that in the case in question, on which the public prosecutor is asked to give permission to prosecute, it is not the case that is provided for in paragraph 3 of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure and proposes that his immunity be waived. As regards Mr Konstantinos Karagunis, the members of the same committee, by a majority, propose that his immunity should not be waived. In accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases but is only investigated if the act in respect of which the waiver is sought is linked to the parliamentary or political activity of the Member or to the prosecution, prosecution or harassment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall decide by raising the hand or by reopening the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(2). The floor shall always be given on request to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. The provisions of Articles 71 and 72 shall apply accordingly. The House shall decide by secret ballot if this is requested by the President of the Parliament or by the President of the Parliamentary Group to which the Member is a party whose immunity is sought. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote in which each fellow Member lists his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we shall proceed to roll on a roll-call vote as I have described you. The first case concerns my colleague, Ilias Cassidy. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u2	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u4	Since 2012, where the People's Association - Golden Dawn has entered the House is facing an immunization industry. I personally have a double digit number. I've got over ten immunities. I haven't counted them. All these persecutions are purely political, and they do not have criminal content, as the prosecution against the Member of the New Democracy Mikelaki for shipowner money was, for example, at the expense of the New Democrat. The evidence, by the way, was found when they sought evidence of the Golden Dawn and finally found evidence for the New Democracy. It has no criminal content as it had the prosecutor's request to prosecute the current Minister of State Stathakis for irregularities and economic crimes at the University of Crete. In both cases, of course, there has been no waiver of immunity from these SYRIZA and New Democracy Members, unlike all the cases of Members of the Golden Dawn who come to this Chamber, there is a waiver of immunity, we go to court and we get acquitted. I will speak of my personal affairs to date and of the political persecution I have suffered since the first lifting of immunity against me on a case of fraud and slander by a SYRIZA official. At the time, I was charged with robbery. You called me a "speaker" and a "knife" here in the House, in the channels. One was not found to apologize when I was acquitted to the audience. Like the famous slap case where I was once again acquitted. There, the prosecution was conducted on the basis of a journalist's phone call to a prosecutor with the famous "ella, Helen". We reached the point in 2013, to lift immunity of mine and other Members of the Golden Dawn for the terrible crime of spreading brochures on the tolls of Elefsina. After prosecuting brochures, we now come to be prosecuted for a political speech, in which, by the way, I say that there was no urge to commit a crime. I shall read out of the controversial speech I am being persecuted for today, what I urge the Greek citizens to do. So I say to them: 'You must be a fist and you must fight. We need your next gathering not to be in this square. Central roads must be closed." Below, I say: “Get out on the road. Claim your rights and you will win. We will be on your side." So I urge them to make the terrible crime claim their rights and go on the road. Because the channels played with some reference to me with the word "scopies" this particular report concerns those who have loaded you and robbed you, murdered and criminalised. And if one of the robbers, killers and criminals had a problem with my report, he could sue me, because that crime is being persecuted. But I do not urge any citizen to commit any offences at all. There is no encouragement, for example the President of the Independent Greeks, when he said: "Link Pachta". I had not climbed the bars of the ERT, as the current President of the Parliament went up. I hadn't said what Samaras said to recapture our cities. All I said and for which I am being persecuted and persecution is purely political was "Get out on the road, claim your rights". This whole story of persecution against the People's League - Golden Dawn is politics. This is something I do not say first, a previous Minister of Justice, Mr Antonis Rupakiotis, from the extreme left, when he said that the Golden Dawn attempts political management at judicial level. In other words, political power, the government, treats justice to prosecute the third political party in the country. The previous Minister of Justice has said so, Mr. Athanasios, in this Chamber, when he admitted that he called the head of the courtroom. He certainly didn't tell us what the dialogue was, but these will be revealed in the course, because when a minister calls the head of the court and tells her that he covers it to commit a crime, because he had previously told him that he had no criminal organization, when a minister in interrogation calls and says: 'I'm covering you. Go ahead, these are serious criminal offences. The whole truth, of course, was revealed in the famous Baltaku video, for which a persecution was carried out, but not at the expense of the Samara government for committing crimes but at the expense of me for two felonies. Unfortunately, in this country, anyone who tells the truth, who with documentary evidences that justice is being driven by executive power, is being persecuted. Golden Dawn has entered Parliament, with its rapid rise it has ruined the soup of kleptocracy, xenophobia and corruption, and that is why all the political forces have joined us. Of course, the most shocking of the documentaries presented for the political persecutions of our party was the famous Samaras mandate, a sound document that millions of Greeks have heard but power is deaf. The MPs of all parties are deafing up and covering crimes. They have become the tail of the previous government. The present government of Tsipras has become the tail of the previous government of Samaras, because this crime against the People's League - Golden Dawn has fought against all corrupt political parties. So you're all accomplices. I stress this from this here the Step. In fact, we are talking about an outlawing ring, which has altered the country's sovereignty, and in particular that famous Samara command to judge, to confiscate three Members of the Golden Dawn, the two of these MPs are still in prison. It's the mr. Germenis and Ilioopoulos. Young people with families, with babies have ruined their lives. The third MP came out of prison, Bukuras. What day did she get out of prison? The answer to this question is the proof of how terrible justice has been ridden. He came out of prison on the day he came here to vote for the President of the Republic and came to Parliament the next day to vote for the Dima. He understands the most ignorant at what a terrible point Greek justice has been reached. By the way, the two judges who released him are the same two judges who refer the People's Liberation Group to the notorious trial of the Golden Dawn. They are the same persons who, despite the exculpatory suggestion of the responsible year, released Boukoura the day he came here to vote for Dimas. This is the first time in the country's criminal law that citizens are brought to trial, and the recommendation of the competent authority calls for their non-referendum. I should be at home and not in prison when we're talking. We are not just talking about the dismantling of the Constitution, we are not just talking about destroying popular sovereignty. We are also talking about the abolition of free elections with all these persecutions. Because the elections were held with the leader of our party, with all our leading team being in prison, making speeches through pay phones. And it continues today with a 'left' government this illegal political persecution and construction. I'm here in the House. They finally gave me permission to come to the House and talk to me about being prosecuted against me. Later on with my bill, participation was forbidden. In my request to come and talk about the waiver of immunity, my presence in the House was accepted to be persecuted. With regard to my parliamentary duties, my presence here in plenary and the vote on the forthcoming bill, I was prevented from being present by the prosecutor of prisons. The President of Parliament, of course, said that what bills of memorandum were passed by the previous government with the Members of the Golden Dawn in prison, despite their request, are illegal. We're totally in agreement. But even the bills of SYRIZA's neolimonal government are illegal, because you're keeping us illegally in prison. I declare that I will remain in the House. I will not, of course, leave this House. I've given a vow. I'll stay in my place. I will be speaking in the education bill and will remain until I vote for the roll-call vote. Mr President, if you want to call the guardian to get me away, as Mr Drasakis had done before, you could, of course, have done. I've been in prison for ten months because of my character, because some jury judges have decided that I'm kind of disgusting. I've paid by the way and 50,000 euros a guarantee. I must be the only sucker in the world who has paid a guarantee of EUR 50,000 - the whole of my father's only, there I found that money - and I'm in prison and I'm being persecuted for a speech again today. I'm being prosecuted for talking to the world. At the same time, of course, apart from my own life and other MPs, they have reached the point of destroying even my brother’s career, who is a new officer of the Armed Forces, who was illegally released from Special Forces on the day the Baltaku video came out of publicity. The new government, the so-called left government with a Burned Defence Minister, continues exactly the same approach. They destroy, apart from our lives, except for the civilization, even the life of a new officer just because he happens to be my brother. These persecutions against the political speech on SYRIZA have been intensified. We had a gathering against racism against the Greeks after SYRIZA took over the administration of this country. And the prosecutor of racism intervened - he says - why some brochures in Athens said the slogan: "Not illegal immigration". The D.A. has intervened! In other words, we should say: 'Yes to illegal immigration, yes to illegality, yes to drugs', as the youth of the ruling party in the Constitution said and used drugs in the Constitution Square and no one intervened. When the Golden Dawn claims legality and compliance with the law in that country, the prosecutor automatically intervenes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Cassidy, you've exceeded 100% of your time and you're out of the question. Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, at the moment I'm accused - am I not? - and I apologise and the defendant's right to apology is sacred.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u7	No, there is a Rules of Parliament, which is observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u8	So I'm going to need some more time to prove what Parliament's Rules of Procedure say. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament say that the Member must prove whether or not the prosecution is political.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u9	I left you to go beyond your time by 100% and you're talking about irrelevant issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u10	In this case we have a political persecution against my party and me personally. In this context of the political persecution, today's immunity is being lifted, and I must therefore substantiate my view. Indeed, persecution is political. We've felt like George Orwell's heroes since 1984. There is a trial with false witnesses, who, for the first time in time, are not just anonymous, they are not just hoodworms, they do not show up but are heard with corrupt voices from an unknown office of an unknown service. Congratulations to the left government, to the left Minister of Justice for this originality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u11	This has nothing to do with today's debate, Mr Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u12	Of course they have something to do with it. Sure. We are being politically persecuted and I have to substantiate it with all this evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u13	In another debate you can also say this in another Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u14	Give me some more time and I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u15	Please. You are talking about the trial that has nothing to do with today's agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u16	They're completely related.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u17	Please stay for the next two minutes on the agenda today. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, in the end we have another lecture on my speech. Make me another break of immunity. Give me the time. I'll go to jail after here. You know that? I'll go to jail after here. Do you realize that at the moment there is no democracy and Constitution in Greece and are Members of Parliament in prison and you don't give me five minutes to speak and speak of political persecution? Here, my prosecutor is prosecuting out here for a speech. Allow me, please. Despite the persecutions, despite all this construction, we will be present in the country's political life. Of course, in this trial, which is evolving, we will be present. Of course we want this trial to take place away from prisons, to be public in order to reveal the greatest political place in the post-war years of Greece. Golden Dawn continues to resist. Golden Dawn will soon be the only real counterpopulation. I will close my speech, with the exact same words I said in 2011 in Aspropyrgos and for which I am being persecuted today. Then, of course, I was talking to a few dozen citizens, today Golden Dawn is the third political party in the country and is being persecuted today. But today she speaks and her voice is heard in millions of Greeks. So I say to the Greeks: "Resist, question, get out on the road, claim your rights and only in this way will you get rid of the political waste that continues today to rob you, blackmail you and murder the future of Greece".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u19	The second case concerns Mr Constantine Karaguni. On the request for Mr Konstantinos Karagunis's case, is there any colleague asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u22	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u23	I would like to ask you a point of order, Mr President. Perhaps I have failed to notice something, but why not follow what was happening in the previous parliamentary term, namely that the Committee's view should be referred to next to the 'employees' in some way?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u24	Please, you don't have the floor. I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u25	Because it is the committee, and we have confidence in it. Let us not pretend that there can be a real reversal of the evidence that the committee has. I understood it for the first time today, and that's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u26	It has been decided by a previous meeting, and that is what I think is the mandate for the services, not to include the reasoning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u27	It's wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u28	It's not the service's decision, it's Mrs. Konstantopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kikilia, you don't have the floor. Why are you ruining the process? I'll give you the floor later! Should we barely break the procedure? I am aware that the parties are aware of this change that has taken place in the past. We need to finish the procedure and then we have to make the point of order. Let Mr. Lambroulis speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u30	The Minister asked you something...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u31	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u32	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u33	About what? For Mr. Voutsi's question? There is no procedure for answering Mr. Voutsi!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, let us be honest. Tell the Minister that Mrs Constantopoulos has decided on her own that nothing will be said! That's the truth, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u35	You're answering Mr. Voutsi now. I answered and that's unnecessary. Sit down, please! Mr Voutissoure has asked the Bureau a question. He answered and it's over. You have no reason to answer Mr. Voutsi. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I will speak for a second. In relation to Mr Karagunis's case, on the basis of the study of the file, what he told us in committee and the information he presented to the second committee convened on this matter, we consider that there is no question of waiving immunity from this Member. We will therefore vote against the lifting of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u38	The Vice-President of Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I want to make two remarks. The first is the reference made by the Minister. In the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics it was accepted and we decided unanimously not to mention the opinions of the parties. This was done in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure which discusses immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u40	Did you hear that, Mr. Kicilia?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u42	Please, Mr. Kikilia. On your side, he was Mr. Tasoulus in the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u43	You're wrong. This has not been discussed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, please! There's no reason to be no longer an object of nourishing and ruining the process. Mr. Tashula, you have no reason!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u45	My name has been mentioned!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u46	Don't say inaccurate, Madam Vice President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u47	Is there any reason to create a problem from the outside in a formal process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u48	In any case, however, once a matter has been raised by a parliamentary group or by some parliamentary groups, the committee is open to see this issue and to state what the parties say or the view of the committee on any request for waiver of immunity. But I want to make two updates, if you'll excuse me. The first briefing is on Mr. Karaguni's case. Following the clarifications made by Mr Lambroulis, I would like to say that it is unanimous that the committee's decision should not accept the request for the waiver of immunity of Mr Karagunis. However, Mr President, I would also like to make a second point. With regard to Mr Cassidy's suggestion and apologies, Mr Cassidyris very artificially concealed a part of the speech, for which the committee with an overwhelming majority - other than the vote on the Golden Dawn and the New Democracy - recommends that Parliament accept the request for the waiver of its immunity. I would mention exactly why this was done: Mr Cassidyris for the particular act, which he is accused of, did not just mention what he said from the Step of the House. He failed to mention from the Step of the House that he urged the people of Keratea to disappear from their neighborhood "human waste that is raped, criminalised and murdered". That is why the referral has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u50	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade. First of all, the procedure is specific. The procedure cannot be followed, as everyone wants. I have already asked whether there is a point on both cases. Mr Lambroulis and Mrs Charalamupidou asked for the floor. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. It's a false report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u52	Same goes for you, Mr. Cassier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u53	I have asked for the floor because my name was mentioned by Mrs Charalapidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u55	Just a minute, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, there's no need for screaming. We are not going to ruin the procedure for a point of order now. I repeat that the procedure has so far been respected, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Charalabidou took the floor, as she had the right to the stage that she was allowed to take the floor and said her opinion on this. I see that Mr Tasulas, Mr Kedicoglou and Mr Cassidiaris want the floor, in my opinion, outside ethics, etc. In any case, I am responsible. You'll take the floor for a minute, please, out of process and out of any ethics, because I don't want to cause such situations. Here, Mr. Tsouula, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, it has been mentioned by Mrs Charalabidou that, by a unanimous decision of the Ethics Committee, which I also took part, we decided that there should be no written mention of the Committee's recommendations in plenary. I was not involved in any such decision. I still have my memory, because the meetings are fresh. I think it is a great mistake that the committee's suggestion should not be mentioned, because the committee is Parliament's, it is not a secret procedure. It is good that Members should know whether the committee's decisions are majority, unanimous, negative or positive. I would therefore like it to be noted that there has not been such a decision while I took part in a committee meeting. I would also like to point out for the record that I am Tsouulas Konstantinos, if they do not know me, because we do not yet have parliamentary identities. We are in the fourth month of our term of office and the President has not yet signed our parliamentary identities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u57	Okay, thanks. That's not what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u58	What are we talking about? Is it a secret?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u59	Let us do this, it will be a great innovation to obtain parliamentary identities. First time left, no IDs!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula, for the ID suggestions. Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor for a minute, in violation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, it is frankly incomprehensible that the House should not be informed of what the Ethics Committee decides and of how it proposes. I don't understand the feasibility. I really do not want to think that it is intended to create impressions, because when everyone is presented in the same way, you cannot know what is going on. We have heard here that the case of Mr Karagunis is very different from the case of Mr Kasidiaris. I would also like to say something about your sensitivity. We have heard - and I fully agree with the SYRIZA Member - that such designations as 'human waste' are unacceptable. I agree with the positive suggestion. The designation 'political rubbish', which has been heard here, is equally unacceptable and I ask that it be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Kedicoglou. Here, Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u63	It is unacceptable for such lies to be heard by the chairman of the Ethics Committee and Vice-President of the House. Firstly, there is no reference to Keratea. I never went to Keratea. Keratea has something to do with some events before, which I didn't participate in. Secondly, I have been here in this Chamber and have been telling the truth since 2012, and that is why I am in prison. If you look at the Minutes, you see that I have mentioned very specifically the quote in question with the designation 'human waste'. There is no urge, therefore, to throw away the 'human waste'. There is this designation, which can be seen as abusive - and then I should be indicted by the robbers, the rapists and the killers - but there is no inducement. These are lies, as it is a lie - and it proves that Mrs Charalapidou has not even read the file and she decides to refer me to me solely because of her ideas and her party - that I have spoken to Keratea. I never went to talk to Keratea. I mentioned some events that had happened before in Keratea, where some demonstrations were, in fact, literally about garbage, recycling and sewage, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u64	Good. These additional comments were also made. My opinion - if I may say so - is that a decision that has been taken will be able to be re-examined by the committee in order to make a written reference as it used to be. However, I would like to say to Mr Tassoula Konstantinos, if he did not notice it, that I, in my report, mentioned a small part of the relevant decision. I simply note that the'majority' or anything else has been mentioned. Let's move on, then. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the name of the colleague for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person voting for the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference next to the Member's name and to the column 'NAI', that is to say, 'NAI' to the prosecutor's request, which calls for the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the lifting of immunity notes next to the Member's name and to the 'NOV' column respectively 'NOV'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do you have the kindness, ladies and gentlemen, to sit down to continue the process? Each of his colleagues in the ballot will list his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group will sign it, because the vote is roll-call, according to the relevant Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues Secretarys, Mrs Panagiota Dritsel from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u65	The House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you, before we continue, that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which they shall make known their votes. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Parliamentarians Mr Zesis Zanna from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Antoniadis from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and seven teachers attendants from the Municipal School of Karymnos Viotia and the 2nd Municipal School of Kalymnos. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u66	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, before I announce the result of the roll-call vote, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Varis. [[Let the pages in. 40a]] The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on Members' applications for immunity. A total of 225 Members voted. On the case of Mr. Ilias Kassieris. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 190 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 18 Members voted against it. They voted for 17 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible for the waiver of immunity by a majority. On the case of Mr Konstantinos Karagkounis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 14 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'OH', they voted 206 MPs. They voted for 5 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Emergency measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education". The principle of the draft law has been applied for a roll-call vote by members of the New Democracy whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u70	As regards the procedure envisaged, I would like to remind you of the following: Under Rule 72(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the roll-call vote shall be taken when the request signed by the total number of Members is submitted, i.e. when it is signed by at least 15 Members. At the end of the debate on this matter, the names of the signatories are given for the request by Members. If the required minimum number of Members present by the signatories is not completed, the application shall be deemed not to have been submitted (Rule 72(2) of the Rules of Procedure). If the minimum number of signatories is established, the meeting shall be interrupted and the relevant communication shall be made at the premises of the House. Ten minutes after the communication, the meeting shall be resumed (Article 72(3)). I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Mitsotakis Kyriakos. Here you go. Mr. Fortsakis Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Plackotakis John. Here you go. Mr. Dendias Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Karamanlis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mrs. Kerameo Nike. Here. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Bouras. Here you go. Mr. Katsafados Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Andrian John. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Yoyakas Vassilis. Here you go. Mr. Antoniadis John. Here you go. Mr. Giannakis Stergios. Here you go. Mrs Martinou Georgia. Here. Mr. Tasoulas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Koukodimos Konstantinos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote and we can start the roll-call vote. I think we can typically take a minute's interruption - because we had the interruption - so we wouldn't waste any more time. The sitting is therefore adjourned for one (1) minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and two their attendants from the 2nd Lamia High School, Section I. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] There will be a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education". You will allow me to respond to the request made by the chairman of the Committee on Production and Trade, because the meeting has been interrupted twice, that all the colleagues from all the parties involved in this committee should vote to bring them up to the table. Mrs Panagiota Dritsel from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy, in accordance with Rule 72(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, are on the list. According to paragraph 6 of that article, the accepting of the principle of the draft law is ‘NEI’. Those who fail to accept the principle of the bill say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. I would also like to inform you that faxes - fax colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House - have come to the Bureau, which makes their vote known at the beginning of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. I would ask that we start reading the list, starting with colleagues from the list of the Committee on Production and Trade. Just because Mr Kefaloyannis informs me - and he rightly says it - that there are no prefectures on the committee list, we will be delayed looking to find the names on the prefecture list. That's why we'll probably go faster if we follow the scorched one. So I am sorry that we will not do Mrs Amanatidou's favour, but we will probably go faster, otherwise, because the prefectures are not on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, everyone can say the county they come from when they vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Kefaliannis, can anyone listening to their name tell you the county that's elected? Is this so we can help them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, there is 50 colleagues. It'll take time. I'm just telling you in the papers. We'll do whatever you decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u75	Okay. The rest of us can wait a while. So each of the Members of the Committee on Production and Trade, who will listen to his name, will say the county he is elected, so that colleagues can find him immediately. My request is, to hear the name of the county, that we all be quiet in order to be able to finish this as soon as possible. That is what you owe to all my fellow Members, Mrs Ammanatidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u77	Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u78	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter by Mr Ioannis Mikeloganakis, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he was present, he would vote 'NAI'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but is not counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Lamia High School, Second Department. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] MEP XANNA is requesting permission from a short-day absence from Wednesday, 13 May to Sunday 17 May, as he will be absent on a party mission in Algiers, Algeria. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u81	The House therefore approved the requested permission. [[Let the page in. 58a]] The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote, after thanking Mrs and my colleague for the work they have done. They voted as a whole on the principle of the 252 Members bill. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 145 MPs. Against the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'OH', they voted 107 MPs. In accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u83	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures for the Primary, Secondary and Higher Education" were accepted in principle by a majority. We are now entering the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: 'Emergency measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education'. Before I give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Kourakis, I would like to ask him, on his position, to inform us now of any legislative improvements and of the amendments which may be accepted, so that colleagues on the articles and amendments may know what is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u84	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u85	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, on Friday the plenary was decided to hold a free debate with the Members concerned. This morning we were told that this plenary decision was changed. And I wonder how the plenary decision can be changed. We have a plenary decision, which said that today we will be here, registered and placed freely in this Chamber, without our party's previous proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u87	My colleague's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u88	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u89	So we come and stand before a list of speakers again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u90	Unless we're decorative in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, the plenary decision must therefore be respected. And the plenary decision taken on Friday cannot be changed and the list of speakers should be opened and those who wish to join should be registered. I understand the time limitations. Let there be a time limit for those who manage to speak, but it must be free to discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u92	I am sorry, the plenary decision, Mr Colleague, is not that. I read you the Minutes: 'PRODUCTS: He may be enlarged, but the parties will nominate their speakers. Okay? Athanasios PETRAKOS: Five by SYRIZA, four by New Democracy, two by the rest of the parties. It's all right. It is the agreement of the parties and the parties will be appointed. Parliament, therefore, approves this proposal.' That was the final decision adopted unanimously by the House. What you are saying has indeed been put into the debate, but not in this House, but in the consultation between the parliamentary representatives and the Bureau. On behalf of the Bureau, Mr Balafas and Mrs Charalapidou were on behalf of the Bureau. That was the conversation. And that was the plenary decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u94	Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor for a minute, because we have to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, on Friday we were all witnessing this process at the beginning of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u96	I read the Minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u97	If the decision was changed again, a decision taken by this House at the time when all the Members of Parliament were present and then those on the list remained in the Chamber and were proposals from their parties, that - I beg your pardon - is an intercept for the House and for the plenary. We cannot decide something, and then the Bureau will come back and make a new proposal again, because it did not like the plenary decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u98	Mr Varvitsiotis, the word'surprise' is not accepted by the President-in-Office, because nothing has been intercepted at all. I read you on the Minutes of the House. That was the deal, and that's how it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u99	For Friday's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u100	And the parties sent the list. I, as President-in-Office, currently have no opportunity to change, not a decision by the representatives of the parties and the Bureau, a unanimous decision by the House. Here are the Minutes. I read it for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u101	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u104	You're right about the original conversation. If I am not allowed to do so, if you would like my personal opinion, I join you, but I am not formally able to change it. I don't blame you, but I don't think it's been intercepted. No intercept was made by anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u105	Put it back in plenary, since it has changed twice. Here you go, Mr. Petrako. You have the floor for two minutes, and then Mr. Mitsotakis will follow for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, that is the decision. And I think that there is no need for such expressions, as Mr Varvitsiotis said about the Bureau, because, as you quite rightly pointed out, the Bureau announces the unanimous decision taken, because the basic decision, as we said - and there we cannot go back a second - must end this bill at 20.00, to start the next bill at 21.00, because there will also be a roll-call vote from what Mr Mitsotakis has said and on the articles. So we need at least an hour. We can't go back at 20:00. This is the agreement with both the legislative and the Bureau and all the parties, I think. In this context, if they can talk one or two, that's another matter. But the commitment of the Bureau and the commitment of the parties is that the next bill begins at 21.00. That is why everything must have ended in the bill we are discussing today at the Ministry of Education by 21.00 p.m. and voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, on the one hand I understand the thinking of the majority and the government. On the other hand, I share Mr Varvitsiotis' concern. I would suggest to this House - and I imagine there will be no disagreement - a compromise solution. Let us propose that the speakers who have already been declared - Mr President, let us open the list of speakers, because I imagine that there are not many speakers who may wish to be written - and with the limitation that we have agreed, as a Parliament, to observe, that is to say, that the debate has been completed by 20 a.m. today, to see whether the speakers who will be able to speak will also be able to complete the list. I think that with a little restraint from all the speakers - we have six hours, it is enough time, we will go on and on - it will help some Members - I imagine there are not many - who might want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u109	Mr Mitsotakis, I cannot change the unanimous decision that all parties were present. I will leave it shortly later, so will the parliamentary representatives of the other parties. I have no objections. I personally said that if I were underneath, I would have written with Mr Varvitsiotis. If there is sufficient time, please consult Parliamentary representatives to give one or two speakers analogously and to do so. Don't waste any more time. We are starting with the Minister and on the way we see this compromise proposal, which you are making. Minister, you have the floor, with the request to inform us of the legislative improvements you may have and of any amendments you have decided to take.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform the House before giving the legislative improvements to be distributed to you, what exactly do we do, although I did have a detailed report on Friday. It is replaced by an hour of the New Greek Literature with the History of Social Sciences. The High School of Lifelong School of Ioannina now falls under what has been described as pilot schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u111	What about high school?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u112	Only high school.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u113	High school then stops being?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u114	High school will stay as it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u115	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u116	What about primary school?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u117	You want to understand? It's not a discussion process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u118	Let the Minister finish and then when your representatives and colleagues speak, make the remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u119	That's right. It's a announcement before I give it to you. In addition, it is recommended that an experimental school director be assigned a diploma or a post-graduate degree. In addition to the provisions of the Article on teaching service, teaching work in primary and secondary schools is considered to be carried out, pregnancy and secondary education establishments' licences, lotteries, child rearing, school advisor's term of office, environmental education centres, the term of office of environmental education managers, health education of cultural and school activities, and the term of office of bodies responsible for certain bodies and advisory stations referred to here. The single-year postgraduate is modulated with two and a half units. In addition, it is possible to select a third school unit, which is not subject to any additional limitation to claim a post of candidate training directors. This is the one team. There are a few more that will be distributed to you shortly. Another legislative improvement related to research centres for a one-date prolongation, you will see it. There are also some legislative improvements to Article 32. There are two ministerial amendments. There has been a lot of talk of one amendment and I wonder why. Refers to the resetting of diagram elements. We are in the installation and construction of the Islamic mosque of Athens. Here we have a correction to topographical elements, coordinates and nothing else. It is a decision, which has gone very far, as far as I am concerned. We're not getting into the point. This amendment redefined the elements of the diagram relating to a section of the same overall surface, the same public property in the area of the Municipality of Athens, where, in accordance with the provisions of the existing legislation, Article 3 of 2006, as applicable, provides for the installation and construction of the Islamic mosque of Athens. Of course, there is no additional financial burden on the state budget. You'll see her. There is also one ministerial amendment, which states that the term of the unilateral and collective bodies of the administration of universities and TEIs, which is completed in 2015, is extended until 31 October 2015. If, also, any member withdraws, resigns or retired, is replaced by the Senate and falls within the logic of the preceding paragraph. With regard to what Mr Fortsakis said, Article 3 of this amendment, because it is indeed a matter that requires particular debate, this article is removed and it is referred to in the bill that will be followed so that we can discuss it better. With regard to the amendments, let me say that I believe that this is a more correct procedure than at least the one we have seen in previous years, where the Minister mentioned some figures and said 'A amendment 32 is accepted, or Amendment 15 or Amendment 18', and no one understood anything. I shall mention, of course, one of the amendments tabled. I am referring to the amendment tabled by Mr Barkas by SYRIZA, which concerns matters of apprenticeship of the OAED. An extension has to be granted, otherwise apprenticeship schools could not work. This amendment is accepted. The amendment - although it is late - tabled by Mr Fortsakis, which has many other signatures, concerning the association of Experimental Municipal Schools of Maraslios, the National Kapodistrian University of Athens, with the 1st Experimental Gymnasium in Athens, is also accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u120	Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u121	He'll share you. I do not want to go into such detail, because we are going to eat all the time. An amendment tabled by Mr Katsafandos, concerning the possibility of an additional degree in study at seniors and others in the last year of study, since an extension to long-term students is granted, will not be accepted, for any other reason, but because we believe that such issues, as we see in the bill, are regulated by a decision of the Senate. So there's a setup there. So, as it's printed, we can't make it acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u122	What does Mr Barcas' amendment have?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u123	It's the general number 136 and special 24. Also, an amendment by Mr Katsafandou, so that, for the current academic six-month period of 2015, students of higher education institutions may be allowed to study in all the courses they are required, regardless of whether they are taught in winter or summer, we only accept it for students on a degree rather than for all students. An amendment by Mr Georgantas with a general number 123 and a special 12, which refers to the transfer of a building complex of Alexandria TEI Thessaloniki at the TEI of Central Macedonia, as both sides agree, first of all, we say 'yes', but because it requires a little processing, our proposal is to be re-assigned to the multi-brand plan. First of all, our position is positive, because both parties agree. An amendment with a general number of 140 and a specialist from the Member of Parliament Dimitris Sevastakis, concerning the facilitation of the movement of PES students to go to another city in order to be treated in the same way as the other pupils of general high school, because it is costly and wanted a General Accounting Office of the State, is being referred to join the multi-brand plan that will be followed, because it would be very difficult at the moment. One amendment tabled by Mrs Xulidou with a general number of 132 and a special 20, which refers to the amendments relating to the service in a TEMPUS, is to say that she has two cases. In the first case, it is within the framework and we have a legislative improvement similar to that you are submitting, Mrs Xulidou, with the number 24, and for the second part, the lack of calculation of the service for the EDPS is in conflict with the applicable legislation. So the second part cannot be accepted. An amendment by Mr Nicolopoulos with a general number of 139 and a special number 25, which refers to taking into account the moleculosis of those teachers who have nursed at the Ministry's central office, Members and others, in evaluation procedures, is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u124	Minister, what you're doing is acceptable to say so we can get some time. Those who don't hear mean you're rejecting them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u125	All right, I'll keep going like this. The amendment with a general number of 130 and a special 18 by Mrs Theopevtou, in terms of the academic year 2015-2016, due to the earthquake disasters, provides for additional posts in the number of participants to 0.5% in excess, is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u126	Where? In what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u127	Higher education. That's the only way...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u128	From a affected area?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u129	In Kefalonia. It defines itself specifically. It is for school year 2013-2014 students. He'll share you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u130	Because you said you'd explain it to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u131	That's right. For students of the school year 2013-2014 from the Higher Education Department of Kefalonia, who participated in the pan-Hellenic examinations of general and professional high school and graduated and who will make use of 10% to introduce them into the same schools referred to in paragraph 1 for the academic year 2015-2016, there are additional posts in addition to the number. That's understandable. The amendment by the Communist Party of Greece with the general number 128 and a specialist 17 will be considered in the multi-billion plan, where there is regulation, Mr Syntagakis, one point. You'll see that in detail. The Group of the Party of European Socialists wanted the issue of Kefalonia to be taken on this beneficial measure next year. We reject it. We're only saying it should be for this year. Also, with regard to the JRC's amendment to urgent measures concerning the transfer of positions by students who have lost one of the two parents, we can look at this more specifically in the Multiannual Plan. In Mrs Bakoyannis' amendment, with a general number of 124 and a specialist 13, as I said before, we accepted only high school as a model and not a high school.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u132	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u133	Let's not develop it now. If you want, I'll tell you later. These were the amendments. If I may, Mr President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u134	Because it was useful for you to intervene and even though I have given you a dentext, I will put you five minutes, and I hope that by the end of the meeting you will consider this 50% again. It is preferable to reject it in the ensembles and to be no standard, rather than be a model of high school and then go to a normal high school. I'm sure you'll think about it by the end. I'm giving you five minutes more, because the briefing you gave us was useful. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said in the debate on the principle of the bill, the provisions we bring to us are for the benefit not only of students but of the whole process of learning. In particular, we are changing the system of examination at the moment but without surprise to the students who are preparing, because those who want to stay in what would apply to the four courses can do so, while those who want and are prepared can do so and learn an additional lesson to widen their possibilities. I think it's perfectly understandable - I imagine - and it makes it easier for students. What makes it easier for them? In order to ensure that students, who ensure a satisfactory score, are introduced to higher education institutions, universities and TEIs, and in addition, universities will have the best potential. They can thus ensure a place in higher education with a complex system, which is of course weak. We're not saying it's the best. It was impossible, however, to stay in what would be the case if we did not make the intervention. I just want to give you one example. Educational schools, if this system were to apply, would have no students, because the field was just teaching and nothing else. No one would prefer to go or pedagogical or anything. You would say to me: 'Yes, all right, we could make an adjustment to this'. But you couldn't make an arrangement in pedagogicals. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who would like to see the system that was to be followed - and all the educational schools had pointed out - that there should be educational schools without students, so that they should be closed down. I say this because you could say 'yes, do this but do not do everything else'. But if we did this, we couldn't do it alone without seeing a framework as a whole, where, really, we tried to see exactly what is going on. Obviously, there are too many objections, despite many disagreements. Some feel that - let me say very popular - 'have been thrown'. Others consider that industries have been favoured. It was the best we could do. I told you that this was a transitional one, because we are going to go to a comprehensive restructuring, which we hope will be better with the help of many others. That is, of course, summed up, as in the previous bill we had abolished the issue bank, and we are also in the middle of a process of next bill, which abolishes the assessment for reasons that we have explained before. There has been a reintroduction of the fields and specialities of the PESA since the reintroduction and respect of our pre-election commitment to Mr. Katrugalos' bill for the reintroduction of all teachers of Technical Education. We believe that it is very important for too many students, who will finally find their school again, as twenty-two thousand students had lost it and, indeed, were affected with very popular specialities. I refer to the specialties of graphic arts, medical professions, etc. Furthermore, here, as you know, we are separating experimental and school standards and have developed our logic for it. We believe that the objections which have been heard are respected, but I am struck by an argument I have heard and I will try to convey it to the letter. It is what Mr Beremis has developed today to oppose our proposal. On the occasion of this bill, therefore, we are putting the draw - we do not change anything else - instead of the examinations, in order to introduce students, he said that we are effectively removing this right from good poor schoolchildren. "Think" - says - "the child of a farmer, who has a high performance in education, can deprive him of the opportunity to compete to get into a very good school. Because, if he doesn't get in, evolution will be to lead to infraction. Because, as you know, a child who has increased skills and capabilities and doesn't go where he wants is led to infraction. For example, Al Capone - he said so - was "due to infraction, because he was a man of excellent skills and became gangsters". Mr Verheugen also said: "So, you see that it is linked, that we deprive these children of going to a good school by going to infractionality." It's a new opinion, admittedly. I will try to find the exact quote from the 'SKAI' this morning in a debate with Mr Possalte. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] As far as training officials are concerned, I do not understand that when we replace an interview with a subjectivity with an election process, this is a 'partnership'. Unless you consider that by definition all primary and secondary teachers belong to SYRIZA, so they will choose their own. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I think that, with the changes that we have adopted, both with the amendments and with the legislative improvements, the bill has improved in many respects and will work towards the good of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u136	We enter the speeches of the rapporteurs and of special speakers. When the special speakers finish, the first two colleagues to speak are Mr Emmanoulidis and Mrs Bakoyannis. Mr Baxvanakis has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Baxvanakis, you have the floor for eight minutes. I would ask that the time be respected so that we may be able to act on Mr Mitsotakis' proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the last day of the debate on this draft law of the Ministry of Education, which regulates, as we have repeatedly said, urgent issues that are essentially transitional. There was a lot of talk about whether there was a dialogue, whether opinions were heard and whether the government was suddenly legislating. Of course, we have stressed that it is not the dialogue that we would like. Besides, the nature of the bill did not allow it. However, the legislative issues were made public just two weeks ago. On Tuesday, 28 April, they were tabled as amendments to the Sports Bill. So at least 15 days are known to everyone. In particular, high school and introductory examinations had been published in a press release from the Ministry since the beginning of April. In the meantime, we have all witnessed discussions, exchanges of views in the media and here in our emails. So the argument that there was no debate is unstable and it is not true, even though it has not been as much as we would have liked. On the other hand, the Ministry's intention was obvious and it was also demonstrated in the debate in committee yesterday and today with the legislative improvements and the amendments that the Minister accepted that it was - and it seemed - to have a debate, not just in the ears of unhearing, but in order to accept proposals. And indeed, proposals and bodies and colleagues of Members of Parliament and all the wings have been accepted. However, in the vote on the first reading, we have seen that all the forces of the opposition have voted 'Not'. It is impressive, and we will see in the debate on the articles in which the opposition parties voted. In fact, yesterday there was the first big gathering - 'concentration - pot' - I will call it myself - against the Ministry of Education bill. It was interesting to see the first positions of the stadium parade by all the representatives of the Memorandum, the parties of anti-population. In Articles 1 to 4, changes are made to the system of high school and introductory examinations. They therefore voted 'Notice' to extend students' choices. Where they were given the opportunity to report schools of a single scientific field - and therefore, students with a possible high degree in the examinations to remain out of higher education - with the bill, they are also given the opportunity to declare schools in a second scientific field, and they are also being examined in a fifth lesson. In this respect, therefore, the Vice-Presidents of the Committee of the Regions voted 'OH'. They want us to stay at first, on limited options. The degrees of promotion and dismissal in high school are also released from the level of access to higher education. We have all known for years - those from at least the educational area - that all the forces, politicians, socialists and trade unions have defended the self-determination of high school, the autonomous role of education and education and its reliance on the introduction process. This is provided for in the bill. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Van den Broek, for the excellent work he has done. At the same time, the draft law abolishes the Topic Bank as a mandatory tool, not as a tool for students and teachers to look back on, to withdraw issues and to use them freely. It is abolished as a mandatory tool and is rightly abolished because the problems it caused in the first grade of high school are well known. As we have said many times, high schools have been forced by repeated Circulars of the Ministry of Education, to re-educate the results four times, to partially limit the dramatic number of students referred to or rejected. At this point we want to note, Mr Minister, the reintroduction to Article 1 of the free and linear plan as a selection course. It is important that students should be able to prepare for examinations within the public school and not be obliged to run only outside it by paying. We would like to explore in the polynomial design and the possibility that the course of the project should be introduced into the Second Class, so that a smooth transition can be made to the Third Class and somehow the prestige that has been afflicted by the Memorandum governments over the past few years. What else did the opposition parties vote on? In Article 6, the areas and specialities of technical training which were coercively abolished in July 2013 shall be re-established. The two-and-a-half thousand teachers were made available, while the twenty-two thousand pupils were forced either to change their field and specialty compared to what they had chosen, either to turn to the IEK and to the private many of these children or to leave public education. On this point too, the Vice-Presidents of the Committee of the Regions voted 'OHIM'. In Articles 10 to 15, the standard is separated from experimental schools. I understand we might disagree. However, our argument has developed strongly and there has been no response on this point: it cannot be said that the same school plays both roles. To conduct experimental teaching, administration, control of books, methods and so on, the sample of students must be representative. There was no objection to the fact that the examinations, which were in place until now, do not produce a representative sample. There is also the objection that the draw may not produce a representative sample. Let's talk about it. Well, the tests certainly don't produce a random sample. In Articles 16 to 28, the question of the selection of executives shall be dealt with. The main change our bill makes is to abolish the infamous interview with the selection councils. I have not heard anyone - and I honestly in the area of education no one will find - saying that what has happened over the past decades has a trace of objectivity and merit. Trace! Everyone knew and knew beforehand who would become director and what school. We are very well aware of the prefecture of customer logic and partisanism, which, through the interview, represented managers in schools, or the awes of the Minister concerned or the administrative mechanism of the training director in question. Does anyone defend this regime? We therefore replace this with democracy. From some colleagues, friends and teachers there is a very reasonable objection, how it will work. Two answers we have on this. Firstly, let us leave it - for a couple of years - to see it, to be tested in practice, to see whether it is the teachers who deserve our trust. Why are we rushing beforehand to reject it? Second answer. We have experience. For several years, the assistant school directors have been selected by the proficiency councils after the opinion of the teachers' associations. Experience has shown, therefore, from the years that this provision has been applied, that there are no problems and that the associations of teachers fully choose their assistant directors, by 100%. Here we are introducing a provision that gives 1/3 rights. When we have a positive experience in the whole, and we introduce a set of pilots, pilots, for a two-year period, why is this reaction? Who's afraid of democracy in schools? Two remarks, Minister. We believe that in the criteria laid down the second degree should be quantified in any case, except for the one for which it was a nomination. There are no other exceptions. Also, as far as the right of candidates is concerned, we would also like teachers in the TEI sector, who teach the laboratory courses, to be able to apply precisely for the laboratory centres they teach. Finally, a word on Article 33 and the cancellation of student write-offs. As far as it was heard, only one institution has gone through deletions. I think that from the debate and in the committee and here, it has been shown that you are calling 'eternal students', those who would at some point like to complete their studies, is a percentage - as the university colleagues have said - which does not exceed 5%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So all of these are not in any way financially burdening neither the state budget nor the institutions' budgets. Why, then, should this prestige be deleted from these children, when even the percentage of those who will at some point want to get their degree is so small, 5%? So why would these kids cut off the road? There wasn't a real rival. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to see the ministerial amendment on the term of office of the institutions, Mr Minister, added the case of the term of office or the election procedure pending. To add that to paragraph 2 of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing that the Minister has tabled the legislative improvements to the Minutes of the House. I would ask the services, after the initialling I have given them, to be photographed and distributed to colleagues. I would ask Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis, on behalf of the New Democracy, to go up to Step and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed a lot about the principle of the bill, so I shall no longer refer to it. I will just say one thing and make a few remarks, Mr Minister, on the articles and specific proposals. First of all, I would just like to say that. Last night there was a great gathering, which was about changing education. It is impressive that we find that the whole of the university community and of the school - high school - high school - do not consent, is contrary to the changes that are being made. This, Minister, is something that shows that it is extremely regrettable that the Ministry and the Government have not been able to understand that these changes are changes which the mass of teachers, university and schools do not accept. We should, I think, really express our great regret, because the lack of discussion leads us to solutions that are arbitrary and have the whole university and school community toward them. It is characteristic that everyone complained about the lack of understanding, everyone expressed the desire for education to be the subject of consensus and discussion, and everyone stressed that the changes made are fragmentary, that lead to changes in the past and do not at last have a more general plan. Contrary to one provision or all of the provisions of the past, it is the right of everyone and expresses a respectable opinion. But not having a plan or vision for what we are following leads us to a real dissolution regime. And that's really a shame. I would like to focus on comments on the first chapter, on changes in the timetable. In my previous speech at first reading, I proposed - and I think the Minister said that he would take it into account - the creation of a scientific body which will genuinely deal with the way in which the teaching and timetable of schools will be organised. Today at the university we have an event for a great personality for Jean-Je, a great French socialist, who was the Minister of Education of the People's Front of 1936, Leon Bloom. He had a special relationship with our university because he was an honorary doctor. He had visited Athens at a completely symbolic moment, while the dictatorship of Metaxas began and expressed his far-reaching views on education and Athens. I'll be a speaker at the university this afternoon at this event. I saw that Jean Zee had proposed and institutionalised the autonomy of the schools in selecting their programmes, in a more general context which gave the broad guidelines, which was to broaden education as far as possible, access to general culture and professional orientation. I wish this old example to be a model that we too will be able to follow, even with a delay of eighty years. I would like to make a few specific remarks on specific courses, since we do not have the possibility of having such a body at the moment in our country. First of all, the course of physics is not included in the physics and economics and informatics group, with the result that one might be introduced into Departments of Informatics without being examined in Physics. Physics, however, forms an integral part of the study of these departments. For the course of physics, I also note that it is not a lesson in general education, although it is a fundamental stone in all positive sciences. Why, for example, is biology so important, which is part of general education and is not considered the physics excluded? The same goes for chemistry. For the class of Ancient Greek and Ancient Greek Secretariat I have already spoken, and I hope that the Minister will take his great importance seriously. To return this lesson to teaching. I would remind you that today only on the basis of a circular by Mrs Giannakou - an old circular - this lesson is being taught for the last time this year. Surprise is the fact that the course of informatics is not introduced as a lesson in general education, despite the importance it has for our time, where of course computers and the Internet dominate, even though we here, in Parliament, insist that we ignore that we have reached the era of computers and the Internet. With regard to the Sociology course, for which we have even received protests from the universities - the Panteion University has done an interesting note and clarifys its position - it is not a lesson in general education, despite its importance in the preparation of our young people to deal with social problems. And I close this list, referring to the social and political sciences, which is not a universally tested lesson, as the Arvanitopoulos system provided for, despite the fact that this course prepares pupils for their subsequent studies in social sciences of higher education institutions and contributes to the insight into democratic consciousness. There has been a lot of discussion on the subject bank. I will only say that for the third grade, her abolition is negative. The subject bank should not be abolished but improved. It does not mean that there is no question bank in a state where teaching must have a unity, even if we leave autonomy, as we suggest, to teachers for adaptation, depending on the traditions and abilities of that school. However, it is crucial to realise that a wider framework of teaching should be ensured and the possibility of monitoring in this context. I was, Minister, on the weekend in Argos and Nafplio, and I was very surprised to see that there they do not know how to whip and jam the trees our people and are forced to resort to the knowledge of immigrants, especially Albanians who are still closer to the earth. I thought I should suggest that you see the possibility of creating agricultural high school and high school. That is to say, children who will stay close to nature and who do not have the opportunity to move on to their studies otherwise, or who make this choice, can turn to the cultivation of the land, without losing their general culture, and be in contact with the land which we must again produce and not abandon and accept these knowledge, which we have forgotten. For Article 6, for the re-establishment of qualifications in secondary education, I would like to say that we firstly are positive for these specialties, many of which need to be reconstituted. I'm afraid there's not enough study of who they need and who they don't. I am also afraid that the choice of returnees is becoming a little bit mechanical, based on party commitments and a prospect, let's say that, of micro-policy. I think that the previous government, as far as available, had made sure to come back and opened the path of IEKs, hospitals and nurseries. I think he could have absorbed them there. At this time, as far as I'm aware, it's about two and a half thousand out of which three hundred are retired. The rest of us understand that they can either come to the qualifications you open up or go to the three areas that I mentioned earlier. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Article 10 - I am entering the second chapter on experimental studies - to add to paragraph 4 the provision that experimental schools promote educational research in practice, in cooperation with the respective schools or departments of higher education institutions, which is the purpose of experimental schools standards under Law 3966/2011 but is not contained in the bill. In paragraph 6, the provision should also be added that standards and experimental studies cooperate with higher education institutions and the Institute for Educational Policy, for the professional development of teachers in the wider educational community, which is also the purpose of the standards - experimental schools, according to the same law but is not contained in the bill. Also, to be added to Article 10 paragraph, according to which groups operate in standards and experimentally to support creativity, innovation and to develop the students' specific skills and calls, because this is also the purpose of experimental standards, according to the law but is not contained in the bill. You accepted Maraslio for the experiment, and thank you. With regard to the abolition of the tests, I would like to say that I will not come back because we have discussed this. This is a performance, which is from excellent to less than mediocre, because the examinations do not work as a filter for the best in the standards of experimental schools but as a commitment - a contract of cooperation between school and student, and these tests need us because they create a feeling for the student that he claims and wins a good school environment and therefore has a strong desire to contribute to his preservation. In fact, the standard experimental schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Fortsakis, I would ask you to be briefed. I've already given you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I will be very brief. You know, however, the point is to make concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u142	I know you've taken three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u143	Okay, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u144	All right, I'll leave you a little bit more but think about the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u145	Yes, Mr President, I am glad to hear you say something specific. Because coming and saying generics...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u146	Don't talk. That's specific, that's what time is!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u147	Good. I would therefore say, as far as the examinations are concerned, that these work more as a commitment - a contract. I would like to point out here that I do not think that it is the random sample, and that is the representative sample. You, Minister, are talking about an accidental sample, and you would obviously have liked to have ensured a representative sample. However, the draw does not ensure representativeness, because the lotteries are random sample spaces, which do not contain the elements imposed by representativeness. I will close, Mr President, in less than two minutes, saying that the directors of standards and experiments cannot be chosen in the same way as the other directors, because we will end up in these schools with less formal qualifications than the teachers. I would also like to say that it would be better for directors to have increased formal qualifications, so that these and less the result of the education club's vote and the twelve modalities of the teachers' voting, can be replaced by a modulation of the teaching of publications and scientific performances. As far as Chapter III is concerned, I very briefly emphasise that the selection of directors must be based on the teaching experience and on administrative experience, that is, the wider educational experience, because we are unable to use those who have for years consumed their efforts in positions of education administration. Adequately modulate graduates. Today postgraduate and doctorate take five units, while the postgraduate takes four alone. To be able to further strengthen the doctorate's and less to give the teaching qualifications. Let's keep in mind that the proposal I made to set up an administration school should be launched. For the time being, I propose that we leave the existing election process and go to a full-scale competition organised within the framework of the AACC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because time is pushy, I won't make the other suggestions I had in mind to make. I'll submit them in writing. I close, saying it's unfair to limit the nominations of school unit directors only to the two units of school. The election must be opened, although it is clear that when there is no one in the school clubs, they will not vote for it. It is sad, Minister, that we have no more time. We have a total lack of debate and consultation before the bill, we do not have time to discuss the essential issues, and we consume our speeches in general, which are ultimately not useful to the issues that are of interest to us. It is really sad that this is happening in our Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u148	In order not to be characterized by personal favor or party patriotism - because it is known that Mr Fortsakis is my friend - I have taken half the time from his denture and is written on the paper for him to succeed me. Please come to Stepma, the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mrs. Despina Sveroni - Chondosiou. You have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, speaking of education, said that these choices - in other words - are not ideologically neutral. And that's exactly what we're afraid of. The big problem for you, gentlemen of the government, is exactly the excellence and the many standard schools. The war against the excellents has always been a popular sport of populists. For every successful student at the A.I.E., there are at least fifteen who stay outside. If you can now reduce the successful one, that is, the one with excellence and flatter others, then you have a ready social base. We're coming back to the 1980s. What have been the wounds in our country's higher education institutions for the last 40 years? It was self-reporting, impotence in accountability, power of students of party factions, violence and arbitraryness. All this returns powerfully. We have powerful partymen that are necessary to maintain the forces of the leftist block at the AEIs. The aim of the government is the state coalition that delivers education to the party armies of the government, socialist equilibrium - downward - which flatters moderateness and inadequacy and nationalist segregation that is isolated from the rest of the world. With this draft law, medium is, in many cases, being applied and educationally isolated in our country. You know, this isolation in education will do much more damage than that financial damage we're experiencing. Education must be aimed at overcoming its current limits so that the country can escape from the trap of half-heartedness and manipulation in public life. Instead of going ahead with an area where our country has a tradition - our country has a tradition - we are unfortunately putting back rapidly. There's nothing new and hopeful. On the contrary, it abolishes what the previous ones might do, as if it were the reforms, not the communist democracy and the lack of assessment. Instead of attempting to open up a way for the future, it insists on a complacency and a complaint from others and eventually reaches isolation alone. That is why, lastly, we have seen the abolition of English-speaking sections in AEI, which were intended to attract foreign students to our country and to make changes to the system of measuring credits for the award of the diplomas. It's what we said about equality downwards. There is a risk that Greek diplomas will not be recognized by other European countries and our children will be excluded from the student exchange programme, the 'ERASMUS' programme. This whole education system is contrary to the system defined by the Bologna Process, which connects forty-six countries. I shall begin by referring to the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u150	Mrs Sveroni, will you allow me to stop your time, to make a statement to this House before entering the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u151	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, forty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Elementary School of Stylion, Fthiotidas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Sveroni.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u153	As regards Article 1, therefore, general education courses are not available for the Ancient Greeks. Ancient Greeks are the main part of our national heritage. Now, the Minister said: "And an hour of new Greeks". The classic education, however, which we received from Greeks at our school until secondary education, was the one that made us stand out as scientists anywhere in the world. It is what our Prime Minister said, that our scientists are amazing when they appear abroad. Do you know why? There are still some examples of old education. In other words, even high school, we have received general education and specialization has become - or has to be - the universities. However, we are now dismissing it, because we say that we do not need the doctor and the mathematician to know anciently. However, can there be a Greek doctor who gives the oath to Hippocrates or Greek mathematician, with all the ancient ones, such as Calis, Pythagoras, and does not know any elements of the ancient Greek language? Is it possible for a person to be legal and say, "You don't need to know Mathematics"? But mathematics is harmonious. The harmony of the universe is mathematics. And who says that law is not mathematics, since there is the major and minor proposal, and then the conclusion comes? But all of these things we have described in alpha or beta way. We do not think that these are necessary as basic education courses. We believe that we should deviate from what we had, because we regard it as a stereotype and bad. And not too much what do we do? You will allow me a popular expression: 'We play pool' at the expense of our young people. In other words, we have not thought that in the end these generations that come will be at the end of generations of amorophies - generations written, but generations of amorophies - because they will miss this basic, 'the basic of Greek education'. There is a demonification of the issue bank by the current government, as I said, and when I first developed the bill. On the other hand, there is a culture of the theme bank. There is, of course, a re-recommendation of certain technical, vocational and extinction specialities, so that students can come up and push them into private education. What you are putting on very much, Mr Minister, as I said at the outset, is with excellence, with the standards of experimental schools - it is something that is outside your own philosophy and logic - because you are interested in having in the next few days a ready-made party army in the next few years. And the more you care about the ears of the students with fewer lessons and less material and the more you care the ears of the students, giving them the opportunity to handle universities as they think, the more you and others will be sure that they will never leave your classes. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] We are, of course, reacting to all this bill and to articles and what we want to stress is that there is intense nepotism and partitioning. Regional directors, school advisors, school managers as selected and now in thirteen regions, where in fact four hundred candidates - oh of the miracle - cannot be chosen! - those most qualified were those who belonged to SYRIZA or belonged to ANELs, to co-pilots. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In other words, you did not even have the delicateness and sensitivity to squeeze out the horizons, to put no apolicy - if you wish - and not everyone so strong - which is not bad - politically-occupied - party-makered. And that, too, which we cannot tolerate, is that you bring back eternal students. You're telling us there are some students who work. But is there somewhere in the world that has eternal students? Yes, there are some parts in Canada, some parts in the United States, but under certain conditions. When a person is a worker, for example, he can take specific courses. But there's another thing about working students and other students who went as students and careers as trade unionists. Because later after the union, they'll also get a ministerial courtman. That's something completely different. If, indeed, we are interested in what is called 'children', we should put a brake there too. We can't eternally let students fill the amphitheaters and overload, if you like, the university schools themselves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u154	My colleague, because I have shown tolerance to everyone, I also show you, despite the fact that I have given you two and a half more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u155	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm a little late, but you know, I came right here from the Ethics Committee and I had the other documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u156	All right, my colleague, don't worry. You'll have a minute extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Maybe you should give me some extra time in my dentistry, so I can put things in one class. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, as well as all that I have said to you, and when I developed the bill in the first place, we say with pain that we will vote 'no'. Because we really believe in an education in Greek, in a education in which all parties should have, as I told you when I first developed the bill, tie our hands and make a promise that, in fact, we will fight for the tomorrow of our children. And that, unfortunately, I don't see. And since we are all cutting off on what is called public education, I would like a minister, Prime Minister, State Secretary, Secretary-General of the previous government, to tell me if he has sent his child to a public school beforehand. I'm afraid not. None of them know what public school means, because in public schools they only go when they're going to vote. Only then do they ever go. And because we're all cutting off for the public school, do you know anywhere in the world in a developing - not in a developed - even in a underdeveloped country where there is a school in order for our children to go to university? You know that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u158	All right, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u159	You probably don't know that all of you who send your kids to colleges because that's where they don't have to be in school. Do you know that there is another country in the world that, in order for children to get a certificate of language, should they definitely go to a language school? I imagine there's nowhere else in the world but here in Greece. And this in Greece is called the 'public school'! And you, as well as the previous ones, are taking away that you are actually doing what you are doing in your power to upgrade what is called public education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u160	Finish it, my colleague. Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u161	I shall end with that, Mr President. We are not against private education. Let private education be parallel to public education. You are actually upping the public education where she deserves it and from there on, let each one make his choice for the future of his children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u162	Mr Stavroula Antonaku has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country has been living every day in a multi-faceted crisis. Crisis of social, productive, economic, cultural, crisis of pedagogical. A crisis that can only be overcome if we all work together. And in order to do this, one must listen to one another with sincerity and not by analogy. Cooperation and dialogue at least on issues such as education do not conceal weakness but a strong will for the reforms needed by the country. As far as the draft law and Chapter I concerning the change in the education programmes of high school are concerned, we are not accidentally negative. We have told you all over the week at the meetings - the Committee's expressors - that we expect you, even at the last minute, to change your mind on this matter. And we're especially expecting it from you who know that it's the third-largest draft law within three years, which changes the educational programs of high school. We, as a Potami, propose that the teaching programmes be discussed in depth since a new draft law will even be discussed in detail, as the Prime Minister and you, Minister, have said. So we do not understand your rush, especially in this matter, and in this very critical period. As far as the courses are concerned, you are changing the hours, but without explaining why this is being done. Such issues are not dealt with by such procedures, especially in the form of urgency. This should have been a real dialogue with all the educational actors, which unfortunately has not taken place. In Article 2, in the form of an emergency, you change how to promote the next class. Here, really, I would like to ask a question. Can someone with a degree ‘5’ and ‘6’ in the basic courses be promoted because it has ‘16’ and ‘17’ in secondary ones? And if a lesson falls short of the basis, you know that it will be assisted by his professor, that is, '9' will become '10'. In your own way, however, the students will “download the pencils” completely into the difficult lessons, because they will pass through the easy ones. Your purpose is to reward the minor effort? In the same article you remove the theme bank. Let's assume we all agreed on this. But tell us how you can abolish an institution before it is assessed over time, even with any weaknesses he has? As far as Article 3(2) is concerned, we as a river agree, that you allow students to have a choice of two scientific fields instead of one. However, there are paths that are very common, for example from the positive informatics sciences that you have cut them off. The system needs to be better studied, because you are reducing children's choices, unlike what you are announcing. And you will have to see this immediately, Minister, before it is voted on and deprives many children of the option. As far as the PSAs are concerned, you are re-introducing all the abolished specialties and all the teachers of the specific specialties are directly re-introduced, and rightly so, because public education needs support. We agree with you on this, Minister. We also agree on the possibility for the Security Body and the Armed Forces to be able to make it easier for the state to study them. It is a proper act that supports lifelong learning. However, was it urgent to want to change the process of selecting directors through exams and pan-Hellenics? Why don't you do what with the school advisors or the prerogatives, in other words give an extension of office? Have you seen the reactions that exist from all sides of the educational community that protest the lack of dialogue? As far as standards and experimental schools are concerned, we are vertically opposed. Remove the exams and restore the draw as a criterion for admission of students to these schools. The abolition of the tests is not a social assistance measure. Examinations should not be demonised. Examination is an exercise designed to improve the student. If this is a problem today for our country's educational system, then we must all see it together and certainly not in the form of urgency. Standards and experimental, especially under the present conditions, should be a guide to the rest of the education system. And at this point we are proposing to extend this successful institution and we welcome the commitment of the Prime Minister and the Minister to that, but with the ideas that have been expressed publicly, we very much doubt it will be. In Article 16, you change the method of selecting primary and secondary staff, you abolish the interview procedure and enter as a criterion 33% of the teachers' vote in order to highlight the managers. You demand the interview procedure by saying in the explanatory statement: "The competences of the persons assessed cannot be established during a short interview, which has been used in the past for the selection of the "parents" of the respective authority." It is a pity in the 21st century that the most basic procedure for selecting managers throughout the world is being denounced in our country and, indeed, in the field of education. Does he have the system of imperfections to date? I'm sure it does. You could improve me in the existing law to cure them. You did the exact opposite. Everyone knows - and better than all the students - that a teacher can have a series of formal qualifications, but you deprive him of the most basic qualification he must have, the ability to communicate. And if this is required for the simple teacher once, it is even more necessary for a school manager who is addressed to the whole school community, to all teachers and parents. If you consider that there is scope for subjectivity, you could add the security margins, although the current process already has a security footage such as an interview recording. But you're abolishing it. And you bring the election process from the teachers' club, giving this criterion the decisive weight of 33%. With such a percentage, it is certain that a decisive criterion will not be the formal and essentially educational and administrative qualifications of the candidates, but who will be more appropriate to the teachers' club. In other words, we are changing people who are interested in exercising the function of the head of a school to common candidates who are going to vote in favour of them. With regard to the urgency of higher education: is it urgent to restore students who did not have time or did not want to complete their studies in a reasonable period of time? Really, is that considered today the most critical problem of the universities in the country? Isn't it their underfunding? Isn't it the improvement of their facilities? I think it's definitely one of the two questions I asked you. And since on Friday you strongly attacked us on our views on education by making us a preaching of democracy and excellence, I would like to know whether you are proud of his parliamentary procedures "spray, wipe out, finish" followed in the field of education, these processes you have been passionately building up when you were opposition. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, education is a very serious matter for us to discuss it in such a way and with such procedures. The question that remains to be answered in the field of education is one: Are we going forward or are we going back? The changes we need in education so that we can offer more opportunities cannot wait, but they cannot be made in a fragmented way either. We hope that this was the last time and we expect the Prime Minister and Minister to implement their commitment to dialogue and cooperation on education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Antonaku. Please come to Stepma from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Emmanuel Syntakakis, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's rapporteur just now raised the question - I suppose rhetorically - why we are voting against this bill. He is, of course, aware of the reasons why the Communist Party of Greece is voting against. The JRC's perception of the single, public, free education cannot be limited to the fragmentation of this bill, and even when you admit that the critical issues that determine it will be seen in a two-year period, when the sub-funding of education has already made a stop to payments to school units, school committees, when business action at all levels of education is continuously spreading when the unspecified education is continuing, when lifelong learning – wandering about the concentration of certifications leads to a degree without any impact that disconnects them from the profession. In other words, you continue the perpetuation of the dual school network, high school - PAAL, which categorizes students to good and bad, smart students and students who must fall to Kaidas. After all, you have admitted that your aim is to implement the Community directive on the shift of 70% of the school population to training, so continuing apprenticeship, early exclusion from the school of knowledge. Even the free access you announced in advance is the fig sheet in order to lure young people into the first phase and slaughter them in a second phase from the first half of the first half of the year to an EIT or a TEI, when they will be judged at the time through a higher degree of exams, to drink the bitter glass of their rejection and violent integration into cheap training and work wandering, leading them to an IEK, a CEC, i.e. private and cheap training for a paper that leads to unemployment. The bill has a communication target. Something must be presented, since your positions on education do not eliminate nor even mitigate the class barriers to education. These are legislative initiatives that do not abolish any of the anti-educational laws of the previous governments, such as Arvanitopoulos Law 4186, Diamantopoulou Law 3966, respectively, concerning the new school and pilot schools, as the movement of teachers, parents and students was demanding itself. What are you doing? You are taking certain acute angles and at the same time ensuring the continuation of this policy that is part of the strategy of the European Union and the OECD. No one has prevented you from bringing a bill with this institutional framework that you are saying and confronting it in the way it should be done and which you say you will bring in a deep two-year time time and, in fact, prior to dialogue. Don't you know what the educational needs are today? Don't you know the demands of the trade unions? You don't have positions and you're going to shape them now? You know everything and positions you have. But if you dare to open these matters, that would lead you from a very early date to the problems of teachers, pupils and parents, but also for one more reason: You are trying to shake down another year in a phase where the government has already decided on the new tough anti-grassroots measures against the working people's family, the third memorandum, the new loan agreement within the framework of a dishonest and at the expense of the Greek people of compromise. In fact, the next polynomial plan you'll bring, and that's gonna be a fragmentary one. Avoid integrating issues into a single logic, precisely to avoid overall confrontation and, at the same time, gradually to implement measures and directives of the European Union and of the OECD in the context of the four Maastricht freedoms, the Bologna process, the Europe 2020 strategy for growth and employment, which provides for flexicurity, the adaptation of the legislative framework in accordance with principles of smart regulation, the adaptation to labour mobility within the European Union, the provision of labour force to the demand of business groups, lifelong training within a set of skills, qualifications and professions to strengthen business groups. A sample of this agreement with Bologna, with the strategy "EUROP 2020" was given yesterday by the Minister Baltas, addressing with stress, because he had to respond to the urban complexes of the press that rushed to speak about Grexit of Greek diplomas from the European area of higher education. What did the Minister say, giving the credentials? ‘The multi-brand plan for education does not in any way touch or alter, as much as it does, the European system for the transfer and accumulation of credits’. He said "neither touches". We are referring to the bakaliistic assessment of the diplomas that are clearly part of the strategic choices of the European Union and of capital and the field of education. So, on this basis, we answer you that we voted against this bill at first, and we judge it as a whole, not what changes, but what leaves it intact, which is the essence of what has to be discussed. Of course, we are voting in favour of the regulations concerning the topic bank, the degree of promotion and dismissal, the re-entry of teachers and the re-registration of students who had ceased their studies. More specifically: in Chapter I, which refers to the general professional high school, we are voting against Articles 1, 3, 4 and 7 because they are moving in the context of the application of the anti-educational. See Annex 'Question Time'. It continues the bill to separate children from the guidance groups, redefining the scientific fields and guidance groups, continuing to see high school as an exclusive preparation for the exams. We are voting in favour of Articles 2, 6, 8, 9 concerning the reintroduction of the level of dismissal, the abolition of the bank's topics, the reintroduction of specialities, although this law is implemented at the expense of the appropriations for the recruitment of teachers at the time of thousands of loopholes. But I would like to come back and tell you, Minister, that paragraph 5 in Article 6 is photographic. You said nothing today or Friday. Why? Because it overturns paragraph 2 ‘World principles and procedures for labour changes and placements of teachers’. This scripture violates the regular procedure and gives the right to individual school teachers who are stopped from pleading and being placed at any school they want without having a void, thus creating chained workers' reactions. It's photographic and you're not saying anything. So you need to take a seat. We declare here in Article 5 because it repeats the n. We are therefore calling on the Commission and the Member States to take the necessary steps to ensure that the measures taken by the Commission and the Member States are implemented in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and with the principle of subsidiarity. In Chapter II, for pilot schools, Articles 10 to 15 are voted against. It is an unacceptable institution of the school models that is maintained. In other words, there is the foundation of the dovetail schools which are intended to train the excellent and charismatic children who have been condemned to the consciousness of the vast majority of teachers. Meanwhile, the new governance maintains the institution of the model schools and even opened up to four Vocational Training Schools in three months' time, while the proclamations were by way of moderation. For the selection of executives in all the articles, we are voting 'present'. It is attempting to raise this issue to a gentleman, creating at the same time delusion that the contribution of the school club will make the school more democratic. Of course, we are in favour of everyone saying their opinion, but the main thing that remains unsolved and perpetuates is not who will elect the director, but what this director will implement and within what legislative frameworks this director will move. In other matters, in Chapter D', we are in favour of Article 29. In Article 30 we declare'representations'. In Article 31 from a position of principle we are opposed to this European school, in my denology I shall explain. In Article 32, you have brought a legislative improvement which we will examine and say in our second language precisely our opinion. In Article 33, we are in favour of the return of students. Let me turn to the amendments, the amendments tabled by the Communist Party are four, and we believe that you should accept these four amendments concerning students who have lost one or both parents and must be moved close to home in order to complete their studies. For the present year's PSA graduates, who, due to the previous law, had to change their field and specialty and give all over the world, that is, they are senior and do not have the right to give these specialties, why not bring it back and accept the amendment? We agree with the amendment on earthquakes in Kefalonia. Other such parliamentary amendments have been tabled, 114 and 130 if I am not mistaken. We are simply saying that it needs to be extended for 2016-2017 and not just for now, for this school year. We have brought you an amendment to the act of legislation and we have explained to you that this act of legislation on the substance of the matter is coming to suppress the struggle of the students and to prevent them from organising their struggle. We have also tabled an amendment to remove the injustices created by the cessation of supply of the lists of alternates provided for in Article 3 of the Treaty. 3848 and we invite you to accept it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, the other two are the Vocational Training Schools, which close on 15-9-2015 and tell you to bring them back to this bill so that they don't close. These are poor children - I told you the other day - who are from tourist regions, which must and need to go to work tomorrow - and you are closing the door to them in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u167	Finally, with regard to the ministerial amendments and some other Members of Parliament, we shall refer to secondary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u168	I must, of course, inform you that since the speakers in their prototypes take exactly the time of dentistry, there will be no dentistry - it goes without saying - because there is no possibility that Members will not speak, Please Mrs. Stavroula Xulidou, on behalf of the ANELs, come to Stepma. Here, Mrs. Xulidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the words of the Epitaph of Pericles: "The adorable freedom, the well-being of the one." Happy are the free and free are the brave, Minister. The proposal, therefore, to remove the lesson of the Epitaph of Pericles from the programme of the third high school, is a huge mistake, as a lesson is removed that not only confuses the idea of Athenian democracy, but embodies the principles of equality, peace, deserve and love. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible in a country where democracy was born the new generation not to teach the lesson that prepares tomorrow's democratic, as we say, citizens of our country, by creating free and democratic consciences? I am sorry, Minister, but 'you will not have me', as the current director of the ERT Tsaknis Dionysia once said. Is it possible in the third high school, as I now see here, as you have tabled, to have one hour Neo-Greek Literature, one hour Religious, one hour History of Social Sciences and, on the other, two hours gymnastics, two hours foreign language? I do not think it is right for classical education to commit such a crime. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue with a phrase of Socrates: 'Education, every good country, every good thing the good bears'. The Independent Greeks believe strongly that the issues of education must be the subject of substantial and honest dialogue, a dialogue in which the entire educational community will be involved, contributing to the achievement of the common objective, namely the reconstruction of our educational system. For our part, in genuinely wishing to respond to the need to address the issues of education democratically and syntheticly with a primary concern the quality of the education and the future of the pupils, we have opened the dialogue with all the stakeholders at the very first moment, looking at each issue with criticism and intrusive consideration, while presenting our positions and proposals to the Ministry of Education as government partners. In particular, starting with the first chapter of this bill, I cannot express my deepest satisfaction at the re-establishment of the PSC specialities that have been abolished and the return of those trainers who have been made available. However, I would like to make a very important point to the Ministry. This Legislation does not provide for the reopening of the PSC sectors and specialities that operated prior to their abolition. If they are reconstituted, but even where they will work, this is up to the regional training director. Vocational training needs clear solutions. We therefore ask for an immediate reopening of the hundreds of six ESDPs with all their specialities, an immediate reopening of the well-established sectors and specialities in the ESDPs without any other condition or mediation of a decision, a direct conversion of the Vocational Training Schools to PESAL and, finally, a immediate abolition of the apprenticeship from the fourth class of the PESA. As regards changing the way in which higher education is introduced, we consider it to be moving in the positive direction, as it provides candidates with greater flexibility and more choices, which the previous framework has limited, so that they remain outside students' institutions with high ratings. However, we would like more substantial communication of fields and a more balanced distribution of schools. At the same time, we propose greater accessibility to certain schools, such as military and police schools. In particular, for standards and experimental schools, we agree with Article 10 and their distinction. It is not the abolition of some kind of school, but the widest possible dissemination of the good practices applied to them in as many public schools as possible. This dissemination will be an upgrade of public free education. At this point I would also like to welcome the establishment of the experimental ESDP, which is provided for in this bill and is a step forward in the face of vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular Chapter III of the selection of executives I shall now refer to the plenary of the House on substance, as we analysed our positions in previous committees. We submitted our proposals to the Ministry's leadership before the bill was submitted and it is good that many of our comments and objections were incorporated into this bill. However, I would like once again to point out the pilot function of the regulations that are being promoted, without this being an alibi to the failure of the proposed procedure. I would stress that the importance of the results of the vote will also be judged in practice. The work of the directors will be judged by the result, as will the club's vote as a school unit. I will reiterate our proposal to have a weighted psychometric test evaluating personality, administrative and management capacity, as well as the emotional balance of the candidate in education. That is what we are proposing to be preliminary and to be mobilised. I would also like to refer to the amendment we tabled, which concerns the Schools of Special Education, known as the 'SMEE'. Given that the service of special teaching staff cannot be classified as teaching staff, since it is not teaching in a classroom, it needs to be clarified for the sake of equality to teachers and teachers that, for the members of special teaching staff, it is the training service that has been offered to HEIs. Moreover, it is well known that there are four types of special schools at the two levels of education: Special Elementary, Special Schools and High Schools, Special Schools and High Schools, former Special Education TEI and finally the OSCE. In Article 17, then, of the amendment on selection conditions, as mentioned for teachers and teachers, we propose that the members of the special teaching staff also be guaranteed for at least three years in the type of special education and training unit where they wish to become managers. This way, on the one hand, respects the constitutional principle of equality, on the other hand, avoids the possibility that someone who has never served in a school of this kind to become a director of it. Continuing on the same Article, I would like to point out that the wording introduced in the draft'service to CEDEFOP is taken into account in the initial criterion of 10-year service', but is not counted as a pre-service, and indeed in every type of school, the three-year sub-category, since the CEDEFOP is a diagnostic service and not a school unit. Its function is minimally similar to that of the schools, both for teachers and special education staff. The role of the head of the school unit is very diverse, with, among other things, a pedagogical dimension, different from that of the head of the board of directors. That is why we have proceeded with a proposal to reshape this paragraph in our amendment. Finally, with regard to Chapter IV, we are in agreement with the reintroduction of the possibility for members of the Armed Forces and the Security Forces of transferring a place of entry to the HEIs and TEIs in the city they serve. In addition, Chapter IV solves the problem with the deletion of so-called eternal students, which has really caused such an inconvenience to thousands of students and their families. We believe that the Ministry rightly displays social sensitivity and allows this regulation to students who were at risk of being permanently deleted from completing their studies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take the time of my dentistry, to refer specifically to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u170	Officially, no one takes time from his denunciation, because it is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. I'll show tolerance, but please don't abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u171	I'd like your tolerance then. The amendment signed by the Minister of Education, the Minister and the Deputy Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, which concerns the redefinition of the total area of the property in the Botanic region, where it is permitted, in accordance with the provisions of the existing legislation, in particular Article 3 of the Act. 3512/2006, the construction of the Islamic mosque of Athens was tabled in a bill on education regulations, which is the urgency we do not understand. In fact, we are talking about an amendment which, on the one hand, does not relate to this bill, and on the other hand it is timely, since it does not support its urgency. I would like to remind you that this issue is a multi-faceted, multi-level issue, because it involves various components of educational, economic and national importance. By questioning number 434/1-8-2013, on the financing of Muslim mosques in Athens, I raised my strong objection and disagreement with the issue of the then Minister for Education, from which I have never received an answer, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who replied to me that this matter does not fall within his competence. I returned on the subject with a next question with number 4189/25/11-2013, stressing that Article 3 of the L. 3512/2006, which stipulates that the building of the mosque will take place at the expense of the Public Investment Program to an extent that will be granted to the State, is in complete contrast with Article 106(6) of the Constitution, which stipulates that the law may define a public contribution to the costs of those who benefit from the implementation of public works of general interest or of general importance for the general development of the country. Furthermore, Article 17(6) of the Constitution states that a law may permit expropriation in favour of public broadband when public works of general interest or of general economic importance are to be carried out. So you want to tell us that this project is of general interest or is it a matter for the general development of the country? Do you want to tell us that the funding of EUR 946 000 by the Greek public is justified as a public-benefit project for the country and indeed in a bill on education, where there are thousands of irreparable problems left by the Memorandum Governments of New Democracy and PASOK? As Independent Greeks, we believe that at such a critical social and economic juncture for the country and Greeks an amendment that breaks out and gives green light to the construction of Islamic mosques is at least untimely and shows a failure to prioritise the Greek citizen's real needs and problems, even though the financing of such an action by the state budget is at least challenging. Let us first consider and take care of the real needs of education, such as unfinished teachers, school teachers in availability, schools with incomplete logistics, schools merged, fainting students, oilless schools, abolition of part of church education. Problems which, of course, are present. Besides, I note that in our country, where religion is allowed, there are adorable places in Greece that allow our Muslim fellow citizens to be adorable. So this amendment is, at least, provocative and unacceptable and will be even more unacceptable if the current government, after nine years, seals Mr Samaras's present present gift to the big-workers in the country of Bobola, Peristeri, Asturias and Sons. As Independent Greeks we ask that this provocative amendment be withdrawn, as if it were not withdrawn, we will vote against it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The Greek society is an urgent need for reconstruction. Efficient response to the crisis can only be based on productive investments, including human capital. Greece urges to invest in education, education, research, training and training, in order to coordinate and without losing social cohesion to move towards what is called the 'innovation economy' and 'productive relocation'. Let us not sink into the dangers of the crisis. Let us not get caught up in the'red' lines of institutions. It is imperative that we take advantage of the opportunities of the present - because there are always opportunities - and prepare for the opportunities of the future through real, substantial reforms relating to our educational system and allow the young generation to hope again that its studies will not be lost. Thank you very much for the time. I give the Minutes the questions I have already asked and the answers I have received.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u172	With Mrs Christophilopoulou from PASOK, whom I call on her to come to Step and take the floor, she closes the list of rapporteurs - rapporteurs and special speakers - on behalf of all the parties. The first two speakers from colleagues, as I told you, are Mr Emmanoulidis Dimitris from SYRIZA and Mrs Bakoyannis Theodora from New Democracy. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin at the end, after listening to my colleague from the Independent Greeks condemning - because there was another statement from her party - the amendment on the construction of the mosque. It is about correcting a error, a topographical diagram. Now, in front of my eyes, an effort is unfolding between the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Petrakos, and Mrs Xulidou to come to an agreement, to find them. As a opposition I should like to welcome this and make use of it, saying that the amendment is being voted against and withdraw it. But, Minister, if anyone is well aware of the international reports, if anyone is well aware of them and has seen the Minutes of the House, he will see how many efforts have been made to build the mosque and see how far our country is world-widely exposed, that he does not respect human rights, then he will understand that the amendment must be voted on. On the contrary, we are voting for the amendment. Don't withdraw it. We're not going to make opposition with narrow limits. We will not opposition to take advantage of the difference you have at the moment. And how wouldn't you have her anyway? You are intertwined with demagogic, populist, nationalist right. Isn't that right, Minister? It's a big deal. I would just like to say one word about it. Who's so sniffy that he doesn't understand that we need the Mosque when all the Patriarchates are in Muslim countries? Who is such a snitch, who does not know that this issue cannot be a bilateral issue between Greece and Turkey? For God's sake, Minister! We will vote on it. However, I now come to the question of education. I will say specific things, because we are on the articles. However, I shall refer very briefly to something that happened yesterday. Yesterday, Minister, it seemed that a social front should be started against what you are going to legislate with this bill as well as with the next one. I was in the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics and did not, unfortunately, attend the beginning of all the rapporteurs. But I heard that someone reported 'concentration of the pot'. Two thousand, with substantiated suggestions, with passion, (with a multitude) were "the pot"! I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the 'concentration of the pot' will never come and I do not want to go to moments of Argentina. You're the ones who make the connection to Latin America, with the Latin world. Don't laugh at all! So, in the Minutes, the call for the gathering, for colleagues to know exactly what this gathering has done, and I am committed, Mr Minister, to sending to you and to my fellow Members the contributions of the five rapporteurs - two from primary and secondary education and three from higher education - who spoke specifically and had arguments on the articles of the bill and on what other bills you announce, which level education, take us back to excellence - because excellence is annoying them - and, of course, they are dismantling every effort by the Greek universities to become abstract and to act with dignity and academic freedom. They are reintroducing an iniquity regime, a regime of violence. [[At this point the Member, Mrs. Paraskevi, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] We had here from Mrs Fotou last time a lecture of hatred literally. (For whom are we talking? Who are we talking about?) Those who were "built" the teachers in their offices who were threatening, who "did the monsters and the slavery" in the universities, who didn't dare anything and disagree with the NASA or disagreed with someone and became a mess! What exactly was the academic freedom there? What was the freedom of opinion there? However, I do not want to take any more time for these in general - I have tabled the relevant brochure in the minutes and I am committed to sending you the suggestions. I would like to come by immediately, Minister, to the provisions for the introductory examinations that we have seen positively, because - I told you - we will not put bumps on. We won't see it all black. I'll tell you that we told that it's good to have more choices for students. However, as Mrs Antonaku pointed out to you from Potami, and I think Mrs Xulidou, see that students are not excluded. I'll get you an example. Student, today, of the Second High School, who is in theoretical studies and had a choice to go to economic school, cannot now give mathematical direction. He's finishing high school second. Do not exhale. These are complaints which we have and which we consider to be reasonable. So, should this child suddenly be prepared for a whole year - for things that have started two and three years ago - to give computers? One example is how we take back the options we give. As far as the issue bank is concerned, I have been placed. Because I see that my time is limited, I want to talk about Article 6. We intended to vote on it, and I told you so. We also voted in committee. However, see, Minister, paragraph 5 of Article 6. Reconstituting the specialties. You said that it would not only be the regional directors who would agree to define schools and specialities. He should do it too, because I said there are local interests. The central authority should also decide, on the basis of regional proposals, and I would say to the regions that are elected to take account of the opinion of the regions concerned. From there on I want you to see paragraph 5. Because what does this paragraph do? It creates the possibility, opens a door - the Communist Party told you - to place teachers in the surpluses. You'll tell me it's just for once. Once and for the first time means every time. Therefore, if you do not change paragraph 5 to clearly determine that placings are carried out in organic gaps, we cannot vote on it. We were in every good mood to do it, but we can't. At least, for example, we should have voted on something. Now, as far as standards and experimentals are concerned, I saw that you joined the High School of Lifelong Learning. That's good. This does not, however, change the general rule, which deprives all of Greece of the good public schools. I do not know why my colleagues, in particular the left wings, are so bailing against excellence. I would say that this is even done by the Communist Party. Let us see how the Soviet Union had invested in excellence. Why are we going so far against excellence? One could see historical examples of various types of regimes where investment in excellence did not favour (or did not favour) investment. Because we've demonized her so much, I don't understand. We are completely opposed to this. I shall now proceed to Chapter C, which deals with the choices of teachers. Once again, I will tell you that these choices create possibilities of interacting on the basis. Even if we say that all teachers and teachers are the best - the great majority are people who want to do their job, want to do it well and often innovate in very unfavorable conditions - to put into the school process this story of fermenting who will vote for who, is a "zis" which has nothing to do with school life. So instead of the Teachers' Association to deal with teaching, to have an essential role of interconnecting the school with local society, it will deal with who will vote for who and there will be camps within schools. You were told by the bodies in the committee. This creates a popular sense of "a, what a beautiful sense! Democracy enters schools." Wait a minute, though. Yesterday he referred to this multitude of gatherings you carried out before, by a researcher that the countries experimented with it were Spain and Brazil. Let's take a look at the results. Even these countries, Minister, were countries that made the directors elected, but the directors then nominated what was going to happen at school. There was no role for the Teachers' Association. We also disagree on this absolute and absolute model. We believe that the Teachers' Association must have an essential role, but also that the Director can do his job. You should never collect votes, because if he does that, I think we'll never finish. We invite you to withdraw that. I think that you should also see the criteria for merit. I told you again: A man who has a degree - degrees are all, I mean postgraduate, doctoral - or has knowledge of many languages and many experiences - will not be treated accordingly, on the basis of this molecules system introduced with a man who has taught many years in school. For God's sake! The experience of class is a valuable experience. I don't deceive her, I used to be a teacher in higher education. However, it is not possible in the administration of education that we do not want the most valuable and the most skilled. What are you doing? You come from the teacher and the teacher, because he has his training license, moleculosis as a teaching experience, while, I say again, you do the same for pregnant women - and well you do it - and for the lion and you say "as long as you have the permission to do your child, we will tell you that this is a teaching experience". We must do this, but we must do the same for the person who has gone to study, because in the end he will only get the molecules of the degree. You have also improved the regulation on experience, on the basis of which the Environmental Education Centres and other institutions, such as the Youth Advisory Centres, are being mobilised. That's right. I would also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: is there any pogroms against the current staff or training directors? I hope not. We are tabling an amendment to this article on the experience of training directors. Isn't it too weird to get out? If you really mean that you want education, then include the experience of training directors, as we suggest, in these articles and then we will say that you do not go photographically, but we may have differences of understanding. But look at this, because it makes 'eye'. The differentiation - the school advisor and all counting - of the training directors is very acute. I don't know why. Prove that you don't do it for a reason that you know. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, end by commenting on the amendment. Look what's happening now: We have the setting for eternal students. Mr. Fortsakis also suggested a way, to some people who really want to finish, to give you a last chance to finish. But you want to keep the well-known student fathers who have made the known complications. And then you want to bring a law to make the universities as they were thirty years ago and make it a mess. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] And you are now bringing the amendment, instead at least, ladies and gentlemen, to a law passed by the two-thirds of this Parliament, to have the minimum respect which it would have been? Firstly, we must dialogue and, secondly, we must not stumble and break him as a 'currant', but change what it is to change, after a wide debate and a process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude and thank you for your tolerance. Here, then, you are bringing in another amendment, which is both legally wrong and systematicly blocked and legally unstable. And while you're bringing the plan, you could, I say, put it there again. What are you doing? You are bringing a provision, which is, in fact, the second breach in Law 4009. You are proposing to extend the term of office of the management bodies of the HEIs, so that they are chosen by a system. What system? You tell us. You'll be the one to legislate. If you don't have the system, why are you bringing us the amendment? In other words, you call on Parliament to ratify your own options indirectly and in advance, which you know and not this House. We're giving you a white check. It can't be done. And more importantly, is the substance of the arrangement with which you're doing it? While the board of directors, with an increased majority, proposed the three most predominant candidates and deans, who were then chosen by the Rector authorities, bring this arrangement through the back door, as I told you, to a little rupture the nr.4009/2011. Let at least have the political courage to bring it together, to have a dialogue, and before you bring it to Parliament and within Parliament, to place the parties and the forces. We are voting against this amendment with all our strength and we are voting against all the provisions of the bill, except for the amendment of the mosque. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Dimitris Emmanoulidis has the floor from SYRIZA for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday 11 May at 19.00 in Maroussi, the spring meeting of the returners of education took place. There, then, were known and unexplainable, enlightened high priests of education to resist, as they have said, the discount of institutions, the insult of our intelligence and the indifference to the new generation. Self-determined ampoules against the attempted by this draft education degradation bill. But let's see things calmly. Education: An interesting definition is what stays in man after forgetting what he learned. It is the infiltration, the greasyness that creates the individual all those elements of spiritual culture, social sensitivity, political honesty and, ultimately, the humanisation of the very human existence. So this content of education comes to heal not a bill on education, but, as the title of the bill itself lays down, the "Emergency measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education". Let's get a little on the emergency, why? Because the arrhythmias created by uncertainties or targeted choices made by previous governments are the ones that urgently need to be cured. Who are these? It is, first of all, this unacceptable issue bank - I have submitted it to my previous position - in the sense that the basic principle, as I have said then, of pedagogics stipulates that we never ask the person concerned for information that we have not given in teaching. Therefore, this is going to go away - and I would say - for those who have basic knowledge of educational reality. The author of this bill is accused of a discounting dynamic in the field of education. First of all, I am going to accept it as a reflection because on a numerical scale '10' becomes '9.5' is a suggestion of a discount. Also, in the logic of this discounting dynamic comes the Minister's ingenious concept of excellence. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a downward dynamic. This is another view. What do I mean? Educational reality plays within a duplex of two intentions, the intent 'cos' and the intent 'on the contrary'. As a matter of fact, the intention of 'anti-dumping' is a dissolution both for the individual and for the collectivery itself, for society itself. What has as its first synthetic "antique" to the overwhelming majority indicates a rivalry which does not favour either individual or collective. We are proposing the 'cohesion' in place. It is a multiplier element of society and a oxygenetic element of personality. Through the "cost" we never lose. So when a climate is created in the educational process that just stimulates this 'plus', we only have profits to get. Excellency exists for us. We serve her, why else would it be done? The left has a erotic relationship, I'd say, with education. It's a relationship of erotic and historical deep engraved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u176	And sexual, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Loverdo, please. It's deeply erotic about our relationship to education. Others have applied sexual relationship to the notion of education creativity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, humor is good, but it is good and decency as a whole. Go on, Mr. Emmanuelides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u179	So we always come to the plea of education, to say that there can be no education without an open democracy. It's definitely a decisive element, but not a pretext for dialogue, Mrs. Bakoyannis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u180	Substantial.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u181	...because we have a dialogue of guys in the interview, but we played with marked cards, because what degree it would get was the result of what choice our candidate had, and now we open democracy, because democracy means individual responsibility for the vote. We are here, ladies and gentlemen, because some have trusted us. So from him, the teacher, the social worker in charge, can we deprive him of his right to appoint the contributor? We are talking about the consortium in a position that is absolutely rightfully more decisive, but that is where our differentiation lies. We really want the teacher responsible for his individual attitude, but also for social extinction. It has been heard that there will be differences, tensions and divided attitudes. But at last! Unfortunately, you have not seen him as the most responsible social worker, the one with his attitude, speech and deed forming consciences as a multiplier. So this element has been removed from the teacher through the practices of Diamantopoulia or Arvantopoulia rationale. So this bill responds to these capitalist, sovereign and historically proposed demands. In this sense, I think we should get rid of our differences from a position alone, consider and testify - I will not say - attitude. Mr Minister, I would also like to make a proposal with the request to take it into account. I would suggest that colleagues also have the right to claim the Director's post, apart from the post of Deputy Director, since they have the same rights and obligations as the other members of the Teachers' Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Theodora Bacoganni has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with caution to the colleague who has just come down and I have to say that I am impressed. I first heard the convenience with which a large number of people - two thousand - are distinguished teachers and people who have fought for education, are called by my fellow Member'responsibles of education'. Why, then, are they retrospectives of education, Mr. Comrade? Because they disagree with you? Because they have another visa?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u184	Defense is a tactic of war.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u185	Yes, we have a different view. That must be clear. For us, ladies and gentlemen, excellence is not a reciprocity. You went to fix it now. But the Minister said so. Well, for us, it's not a ceremonial. And if there is in your vocabulary the idea that excellence is reciprocity, you are mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, and you take us back many years, in the early 1980s, when partisanism entered schools and education, when "come to see", when we had an entire society of misery, because it was about self-evident that universities should have categorized themselves, when the whole word and only worthyness was a word that didn't want to hear, when the evaluation had come out completely - but completely - of the teachers' vocabulary and when the title of honor, my colleague, was only a trade union in any form and at any level of education. We paid this very expensively. And because I have a few years more in the Greek Parliament than you, I want to tell you that we have all made the mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u186	I was thirty years in training, Mr. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u187	I do not doubt that you teach in classes thirty years and that's why you have my respect. But from there on, I have twenty years in this House, I tell you that the political system has taken a very long drive and we have passed a lot here. We went through party perceptions, paid dearly, experimented on the head of the new generation, and at some point we put a little brain on - not too much, but we put a little brain on - we opened up our horizons and saw what is going on outside. We realised that countries, societies that are walking more forward and better than us, are the societies that had agreed in their educational system, they had the broadest possible consensus on how to train their children and not based on party logic, not based on making a plan for the next elections, but on future generations. Some of them fought a lot. I've heard Mr. Kourakis with a pedagogical style talking about Mr. Beremi. I do not doubt the parchment of Mr Kourakis as well as the subject of education and as poetry and as others. But I don't think anyone with such ease can walk a teacher like Mr. Beremi and not hear his opinion. Dispute. I'd love to. But that's why we're here to argue. But let's hear it. I spoke before about the course we followed. Two women had the courage “to put their heads on the torva”. I want to mention both of them here today. One was Marietta Giannaku and the second was Anna Diamantopoulou, with a big fight. I know, you're beating, Mr. Comrade. I know! That's a bad thing to do with the evaluation. That's a bad thing! Because one should be judged on objective criteria rather than on party action. In any case, in this Chamber at a time of great tension - because it divided us deep, it was the heroic days in which New Democracy was fighting dynamically - consensus was reached on the subject of education. A law with two hundred and twenty-five MPs was reached and passed. Was he perfect? No, ladies and gentlemen, there are no perfect laws and how much more for education. But it was a very important step forward. For example, the example of Mrs Diamantopoulou and Mrs Giannakou could have been followed by both new Ministers of Education. To say that we see some specific weaknesses and begin a substantial dialogue. Let me get this straight! Involve. Here, for example, she divides me with Mrs. Xoulidou a deep gap about anything she says. On the subject he raised for philologists and for philologies, she is right and I agree with her. We could therefore agree on many, ladies and gentlemen. We could actually find the best way to help our children, which is our only chapter in this country. Instead of that in the bill of sport there are some amendments, there is opposition that is raging and the Minister comes in with an ultra-persistent bill. Topic, ladies and gentlemen? On whether we will give a five-minute subsidy to a product, while on the most serious issue that this country has today, and where is its education, the left brings and dares to bring a bill as an over-intention to the issue of education? I'm so sorry, but this is where I've lifted my hands up! I've lifted my hands up! I don't understand it. I don't think I'm a great pedagogical expert. My only education experiences are that I am a mother and now recently I am a grandmother and so on. And what I'm interested in is watching the kids learn letters. However, I have also been a Evrytania MP and I have grown up with the idea that the most unfair thing that exists in Greece and where equal opportunities under the Constitution do not apply was in the children of Evrytania. Because they have the same right to have high-level teachers and teachers. And they cannot tomorrow morning have teachers who will only be products of party favorism. You should think about this, ladies and gentlemen, because this law I was talking about before and which you are so easily demolished today, this law has been judged on certain things, Minister. He's been judged on the international standard. And it has been judged successfully. So there, where he failed - if he failed somewhere - to correct him. But is it ever possible to risk the Greek degrees today, Minister? Is that ever possible, ladies and gentlemen? Here we are in front of a coalition of ministers about who will bring Grexit more quickly into this country! I mean, this thing can't be done! Greece belongs to Europe, Greece is a European country, Greece must have open horizons, Greece must have an education that promotes the best and rewards the best! And I don't understand, Mr. Baltas was distinguished for his excellence. He too, I read, that's what we knew, all those who were following his course. Why, then, does it deprive other Greeks of the right that he reclaimed? Let me get this straight. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are making of us today is ideologically opposed. And don't start at me about neoliberalism and stories, because it's not neoliberal the model, but worthy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I beg your pardon, Mr President, but everyone else spoke more. We believe in merit. We believe in the worthy. We want schools open. We want public universities that produce. We don't want closed universities. We don't want the conquests to be regarded as self-evident. We do not want the asylum to come back and become an anarchy asylum. And then, eternal students. As strange as it may seem to you, ladies and gentlemen, I have been a working student my whole life as I have been a student. In any case, cannot a solution be found, as Mr Fortsakis has proposed, for the people who objectively want and cannot? You! But you don't want to. And you know why you don't want it? You don't want it because you want them to have a student card so they can vote and act politically tomorrow morning. That's the point. All this fuss and so-called democratic sensitivity are just for that reason. The eternal student has the same vote as his parents have been financing for four years and is struggling not to lose a single semester, because his parents will not be able tomorrow morning to support him in Athens, in Yannina or elsewhere. That's the truth! I want to tell you that we will fight these at all levels. To be clear! And if you get rid of the people that gathered yesterday, you're making a big mistake. If you don't want to hear the people who gathered yesterday, you're also making a very big mistake. Because these people will continue to fight and we are too many. And in any case, many things one can accept, but what one cannot accept is the undermining and mortgage on the future of our children. Finally, I want to speak and say a few words about the Lifelong School, because I fear, Minister, that here you are going to make a major mistake. What you are doing is completely unreasonable - I imagine that now the whole House is in agreement with me, regardless of whether it is party discipline that you have to say the opposite - it is also anti-educational and contrary to the rules of the educational system. It can't work a standard high school without at the same time running high school. Paragraph 6 of Article 11, Chapter B, of your law stipulates that: "The standard high school and the standard high school function as a single educational unit and that students will be subject to the examination procedure only for their admission to the standard high school and that they will continue their studies in the standard high school without undergoing further examinations." To what standard high school will the students of Zosomia continue their studies? Their families will move to Athens, where are the other High School Standards you approve? Is this the answer of SYRIZA - ANEL Government to the Ioannina society? Is it never possible to consider any of the Ioannina institutions, who have all protested and come to you and found you? I wonder why the other four standards of high school, together with the corresponding standards of high school, will be a single educational unit, with the sole exception of the Standard High School of Life? Ladies and gentlemen, I have been told why and I will say this and wish you a deep heart to disprove me: the reason is that the professors of the School of Lifelong Learning are not qualified to serve a model high school, but they have party parchments. And that is why Greece's most historic school today - I, as you know, am not elected in the Prefecture of Ioannina - will have high school and will not have a high school. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. We cannot legislate in this way. We cannot believe that we have the right for narrow party reasons to dismantle the background on which an attempt is being made to support the future of this country. We, ladies and gentlemen, will vote against everything other than the amendment that Mrs Christophilopoulou spoke very well about, I do not need to add anything. We will vote against it and fight it, Minister. We will fight it because, in fact, here, there is a difference of values. There's an ideological difference. We - and this is how the new Kavala colleague described us in such arrogant arrogance - believe that dialogue, Minister, is necessary in order to try to achieve national consensus. We therefore consider dialogue as a prerequisite for all issues: dialogue with institutions, dialogue within Parliament, dialogue for everything. And for one of the worst moments of the Greek Parliament - let me say - it is that you have brought about the dismantling of the Greek educational system in the form of an emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you. You all know very well that today at 21 noon, we are just having a debate on the legislative act on another matter. We've come to an agreement and we'll do it. There's no time. So, please, so that all Members can have time to speak, let us be brief. There is a draw of time beyond normal, that is, one or two minutes, which the speaker usually can talk. Please, I would like a little attention on the subject of time. Mr Ilias Cassidyris, from the Golden Dawn People's Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u189	I feel really resentful as I heard from a representative of the corrupt party of so many decades talking about free dialogue, about irregularities in the functioning of Parliament. At noon on the lifting of my immunity I announced that I would be a speaker of the Golden Dawn in the education bill. I said that if the Bureau objects - because there are illegal public prosecutors who forbid the Members of my party to speak in Parliament and vote in votes - let the Guardian call. And the Bureau called the Guardian! My office was sent by the Guardian to bring me some undercover public prosecutor's decisions, illegal and to tell me that I have to leave this House and not to talk. What are these things? It's disgraceful and shameful! And you're talking about democracy! Well, to be precise, the Guardian didn't come himself. The lieutenant came along with a police officer and showed me the public prosecutor's orders that said you came to the House to waive immunity, but we forbid you from talking to the bills because it's not your professional property. Talking about Greek education is certainly not our professional property. We have, however, given an oath and here in this House, neither have any great interests put us nor anyone else. The Greek people have put us in their vote and this must be respected by both the Bureau and all the political forces. Here, too, we have given an oath to be, to speak, to claim in favour of Greek citizens. This action was unacceptable and I denounce it. Let Greek citizens finally understand that this dictatorship of the memorandum that began with the Papandreou governments, then Samaras - Venizelos, continues today. I shall begin by not referring to the question of Greek education - which is, of course, a major one for the survival of the Greek nation - but to a late amendment. SYRIZA had promised that it would not bring any delayed amendments as it had promised that it would not bring legislative acts and will not imitate the previous Memorandum of Understanding in this tactic that truly catalyses the functions of the Parliament, destroys the institutions. Here we are seeing a late amendment on a major national issue: the building of Islamic mosques in the city of Athens, in the capital of Greece. The Golden Dawn is perpendicular to this perspective. He sees this energy as treacherous. We will denounce and resist by all legal means, expressing the will of the overwhelming majority of the Greeks. If you made a referendum on this issue, which is just as big as the economy, our culture, the Greek tradition is important, perhaps more important than the economic problem that Greece is facing today - and you asked the Greek citizens if they wish to rise a mosque in Athens, they would respond together not. In fact, as far as the mosque is concerned, I will mention an expression every day but it is appropriate to describe the present situation. We have a pimp and promotion partnership if you want. This term was used first by Kostakis Karamanlis. So I think I'm legitimate to use him too. Mr Bobola's operation, Mr. Kokkalis's business, Terna, all the major construction trusts for a project that has no great profit. They will save their breakfast coffee by building the Islamic mosque in Athens. But it is a sign of power that every unwilling project is to be promoted in perfection. I regret the situation this House faces today, with this late amendment. The Golden Dawn points out that despite the bans, despite the persecution, we will be able to stand up in the fight so that this action - I repeat - is deeply undemocratic and unconstitutional and is opposed to the will of the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens. We haven't had jihadists in Greece so far. But we will also have jihadists, extremists. A core will be created to conceive and gather evil elements, decaying elements that cause a problem, will cause further burglary of the country's social fabric. I also denounce the Minister responsible for bringing this amendment, Minister Lafazania, and I have to say it now because I am very few times in Parliament because of my illegal imprisonment. For a month now, I have asked a very important question, a timely question concerning Greece's energy deposits, regarding the use of Halkidiki's gold that was also involved in the operations of the Bobola family, with regard to the interventions of foreign forces in the exploitation of Greek energy resources. The first time he told us with his secretary he couldn't come. He then came to answer the PASOK MP Loverdo and someone from the JRC showing that there is completely illegal discrimination and exclusion of my party's parliamentary activity. He said, "Okay, don't complain. Repeat the question next week'. The next week came in, and it was a Mayor's Day. We had a new mockery. On the third week I raised the question again. The Minister responsible has not come again. Please, the Bureau has committed itself to being fully transparent in parliamentary control. In fact, we are talking about a period when Russia's Deputy Minister of State has been placed on the Greek economic question and developments are rapid. What the Golden Dawn calls for Greece to turn to Russia at every level must finally be discussed in detail in this Chamber. With regard to Greek education, which is the issue of today's bill, it is assumed that SYRIZA would continue the work of levelling Greek education, which is done by all post-government governments. We started in 1974 with the abolition of the polytonic, with the abolition of the teaching of the Ancient Greeks. New Greeks will soon be abolished. My generation, unfortunately, doesn't know how to speak Greek. In fact, it is considered for the people of my own generation, for the Greek citizens who have finished a great university of qualifications and for the advantage of knowing the Greek language well. This is a project, which has been systematic for decades and is certainly coming from foreign power centres and is being carried out today. There was no way for the current government to be differentiated from this situation. I will also denounce the Minister, who is present. By a poet of the vagina, Minister, you are here today to legislate against Greek education. I also have a personal reproach, if you would like: You had gone to the terrorists on 17 November and said 'Don't shoot me, I'll go see Cassidy'. First, where did you know I was going to go to jail? Second, you didn't come to see us. You didn't come to see the modern gullags of pseudo-democracy in Greece 2015. You didn't come to prisons where Members were illegally detained. We have MPs with minor children with babies. Eliopoulos' second child was now born and he's in prison. And they forbid us from being with our families. They forbid us to exercise our constitutionally established rights. We are deprived of civil rights without even trial. That is why you had to listen to it, not for any other reason, but because you had used my name as an alibi at the time when you visited terrorists on 17 November. From there on, as far as excellent progress is concerned, this institution must of course be maintained. I, although you generally introduce me as a trumpet or hooligan, inform you that in all classes both of high school and high school I had excellent progress and prize. In fact, when I was going high school I wanted to go to a model school myself. Then, of course, it was the system you want to bring back and now with the draws. There, whether it was a blanket, or I wasn't lucky. Ultimately, it wasn't paid. Nevertheless, I went to a public school, which must have been the first to succeed in the pan-Hellenic exams in West Attica and went to university. In other words, the public school, of course, gives many opportunities to Greek citizens who have no financial comfort. However, the maintenance of the institution of standards and experimental schools is essential, as is the maintenance of excellence and awards, namely the reward for those who work harder and more productively. I would like to say that we are vertically opposed to equality, which is seen in higher education. Unfortunately, the party rule has taken over the Greek university. We've experienced this all the young people of my generation surely and of the oldest, obviously, who's getting into the university all you see are colorful party posters. The youth of the New Democracy on the one hand to arrange a party in Mykonos with plenty of alcohol consumption. SYRIZA's youth on the other hand participates in a festival in favour of the decriminalisation of soft drugs and drug use in Syntagma Square. These images of absolute decline and levelling are perpendicular to the vision of the Golden Dawn for Greek education. The Golden Dawn once took lessons of Greek history and the whole system helped us fight, fight us, challenge us. And what do we hear today? We have already heard the spokesman of the New Democracy speak with praise for Mrs Giannakou. Mrs Giannakou is well known - for Greek citizens to listen to - is the one who imposed Reposi's unscrupulous and unethical books at the Greek school, she forced the Greek school to talk about a crowd in the waterfront of Smyrna. These phenomena are unacceptable, and the Golden Dawn is fighting by every legal means, despite persecution, despite propaganda, imprisonment and all this disgraceful service against us, to overthrow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat the reminder and the remark. I've been notified by the services too. It is a given decision that the debate on the legislative act will begin on time. So every minute a speaker wins more, he raises problems with his colleagues. They may not be able to talk. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I would be strict from the previous speaker, but it makes sense that with the charge that Mr Cassidy has as a temporary prisoner, he would think that rigour starts from him and would be unfair indeed. From now on, from the next speaker, the Bureau will be strict because you will not be able to make any progress. My colleague Mr. Nikos Orphanus from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, our lives have become an urgent bill. I am not original, but I am also commenting on the unacceptable practice of heavy bills loaded with dozens of amendments, debated in a hurry and voted in summary procedures that remind the relevant storm of the memorandum vote. We hope that any agreement with the lenders will not vote in the same way. The role of the Member is downgraded by another programme which seems to be aimed at disorientation and infrequent participation in votes, essentially overcoming. The famous "First time on the Left" is being experienced as a glimpse of the parliamentary process. We are now going to the fragmentary, as the Minister apostomatically described it as a bill that we are discussing today. I heard on Friday very carefully the Minister underlined and made it clear that the leadership of the Ministry of Education is not in favour of modesty, but is aimed at creating schools where students are primarily interested in solving the problem and not at the first. Minister, we are with you on this, but unfortunately, I have not found any article in this bill that brings us to that objective. The only objective I have identified in this bill is the degradation of any form of evaluation which, unfortunately, does not necessarily lead to the extermination of competition that is disturbing to you. And, of course, I would be unfair if I were not referring to the important contribution made by the President of Olehem to the writing of this bill which is clear and clear and I found it in almost every article. For it is clear that Mr Kotsyfakis is dictating and the Minister is writing. What's he writing? Article 11, concerning the declassification of pilot schools and their rename in experimental and standards: five schools remain for historical reasons. I really don't understand that term. What exactly does that mean? What kind of test and evaluation model is it? Does the Zoastic School of Ioannina not meet this criterion of history one day, while the next one meets it and rejoins the list of standards? Eliminate exams by practicing the subject of luck. One reckons the left slogans: 'Legal rights are conquered'. The Mayor's Day you had taken out a poster: "Credit is won. " Dignity is won, but is education being paid? In other words, the draw does not ensure the mood. It does not reveal the student’s intention to attend an experimental school at a different school. I don't really understand the new obsession of the Left in fate, in luck, in destiny. The people of tomorrow, that is, you want them to say: 'It was fatal, it happened that I went to this school', rather than saying: 'I tried and won'. Is that what we're trying to do with the draw? Do you think the rich man's son will get into the draw? It will go directly into the good school it wants and enter the respective graduates' club, because that is why it pays. You don't care about the poor good student, the real equal opportunities, but an inexpensively philosophical policy. Easily school is not necessarily better and better. It is not necessarily uncompetitive. As a rule, it's medium school. The poor students will read and go to the school they want, Minister. It won't stop them that they won't have the ability to do the subscribing care. Don't underestimate them that much. The question is how to study at a good university. But that's what we'll talk about when the higher education bill comes. If you want good public education, raise standards in all the poor neighborhoods, in all the degraded people's neighbourhoods, in remote cities and villages, not just have one outside Attica. Let's go to the training staff. You must respond to what criteria you divide the training staff into two categories. Two yards and two stations? Otherwise, will the training directors and school managers be chosen and the school advisors and the foreign training coordinators chosen by a selection board based on the previous law? In our opinion, this separation goes hand in hand with your general perception and practice of staffing public administration, which is no more than party control. In the same spectators work! Remove the selection boards of training staff who examine the administrative and pedagogical competence of candidates and replace them with a vote of political - trade union type with absolutely subjective criteria. The trade union popularity becomes the ultimate qualification and replaces the interview, widely used practice for selecting executives everywhere. The three remaining members of the ERT board of directors following requests will also be selected with the interview. What about the interview? The interview that favours the choice of a "father"? And why else are the "logues" and elsewhere aren't they? How will a person who has been voted down by part of the body of teachers who should be guided by his teaching and administrative role? You want to politically control schools, but all you do will be their deregulation. On what criteria will teachers judge a candidate? On what criteria will school directors vote for the Director of Education? Is he going to run an election campaign? I'll tell you, Minister. There will be a list of the adorables of party, party and local parliamentarians. It'll be a line, commonly. That's what's gonna happen to get the partying to the medal in school. This is the best recipe for dissolving them. You could well improve the previous law, improve the interview procedure by putting extra insurance margins on which no objections had been raised in the past. We are also prepared to discuss a form of teachers' opinion on their heads. It is a widespread form of evaluation of the heads of government. Science has provided us with such scientific tools. However, nothing like this has to do with the secret ballot imposed by this bill. Minister, you are following the worst practices of the old parties. Three months in power and you have already lost the moral advantage of the Left. You can no longer invoke the sovereignty and independence of the state from the parties' bonds. Of course, we're going to the top of the articles. After you quit as a student and study and manage to survive the democratic processes of middle education, the care centres and all that pressure and anxiety and enter the university, the eternal student expects you as a reward! Which major university abroad is there any possibility of taking hard and strict tests and going out whenever you want? The university as a student parking lot, as an educational shell, self-referring and institutional! Let's not be fooled. Such public education favours only the students of the economic elites, who would redeem their difficult degree with well-paid positions as opposed to the graduates of the public institutions who would acquire degrees without an impact. You tell us not to worry because this bill is transitional. Tell this to the citizens who, in a poll of the University of Macedonia, leave the government revolved on how to deal with education issues and take "4,2" perfectly with "10". Nor do you go along with the basis of '9,5'. Think about it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr Stavros Tassos of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. It is known that education and research are the main pillars of the reproduction of the values, principles and practices of the dominant class in the ideological, political, legal and ultimately economic field. With regard to this draft law, I will focus on two issues: training and so-called excellence, which are the two sides of the same currency. I say "so-called excellence", because it is another thing that excellence comes out of the people and is for the people and another thing is the excellence that comes out of the people, but becomes an instrument in the hands of the ruling class. In the context of the European Union and the capitalist system, in which the government provides daily vows of faith, education and research serve the one and the fixed objective of the production process: profit maximisation, which in times of crisis and intense competition between business groups is accompanied by a dramatic reduction in the price of the labour force, i.e. by an increase in the level of exploitation of workers. So while the SYRIZA - ANEL coup is preparing to sign the new agreement - a memorandum, with falsifications and statements of a possible referendum trying to falsify the people of the new tough measures as a success of the negotiation and make it an accomplice to the anti-grass plans. Of course, this policy of the European Union and the capitalist system in the field of education served faithfully the coexistence of the New Democracy and PASOK with the anti-educational, class and reactionary laws of Arvanitopoulos, for the new school, the n. Diamantopoulou’s 3966/2011 standards for experimental schools, as well as the Framework Law 3369/2005 on Lifelong Learning. These laws do nothing but form an institutional framework through which the strategic objectives of capital in the field of education are promoted and implemented more quickly and more effectively. This means that the detailed programmes, the curriculum, the sectors and the specialities are shaped according to the needs of companies for the existence of cheap and semi-skilled labour power with some skills in areas that at a certain point in time the large capital estimates to be highly profitable. This training has nothing to do with the needs of society, with anything to do with the students' capabilities and talents, nothing to do with the critical thinking and the full development of the personality of students. On the other hand, with pilot schools, they want to form an elite, both at the level of secondary and later higher education. But this elite will objectively have a false reflection of physical and social reality, since it is trained in the context of metaphysical idealism, which disinfectes the various aspects of the cognitive process and considers both natural and, above all, social phenomena unchanged and independent and that people's consciousness determines what they are. This framework does not favour the formation of critical thinking and aggregated knowledge. On the contrary, it leads to the hunting of fragmentary information and therefore also to the readiness to accept and unscientific theories as well as anti-popular policies. After passing human resources management seminars, this elite will be used by business groups as a layer to "maximise the performance of workers in order to better serve the strategic objectives of their employer", which is, of course, nothing but the maximisation of their profits. In other words, her mission will be how she will manipulate the other workers to accept without great reactions and if possible with a great deal of pleasure the increase in the level of their exploitation, making them believe that they contribute to the good of the group. This reactionary legislative framework of the strategy of the European Union and the OECD on education leaves this draft law intact of SYRIZA - ANEL, which is why we have voted against in principle. We are also voting against Articles 10 to 15 concerning pilot schools, because the elite institution of models is maintained away and beyond the need for all children to receive integrated scientific education. The possibility that every standard school can choose this import procedures to it dangerously opens Halos' Ascique to further categorisation of schools in the name of autonomy. The school, which the Communist Party of Greece proposes, is the single 12-year-old school for all children. This school disciplines young people and develops their personality. It requires the methodical and balanced culture of all sides of human psychism, understanding, emotion and will. It is the school that truly forms free people who seize life and are not prey to the false paradises of the narcocult. As part of the single 12-year-old school, a system of purely experimental and not model schools is part of which will study and make use of the findings of educational and development psychology. In this context, educational and educational research will contribute to the assimilation and dissemination of new scientific achievements at every level of education, to the development of children and youth. In cooperation with the respective universities and research centres, innovation, experimentation and their implementation will be promoted within the framework of the single school structures. In order to ensure the experimental nature of these schools and the widest possible scope of the sample, there will first be a draw for entry into experimental schools, while the perspective is at reasonable intervals - three to six years - to change the experimental schools for the greatest possible dispersion of good practices and for their further application at a national level. This school has at its heart dialectical and historical material, where physical and social phenomena are an ever-existent continuum, while at the same time there is an unauthorized movement from simple to the most complex forms of organizing matter. The objective reality, both physical and social, takes precedence over her knowledge that reflects reality in human consciousness, where in nature the laws of movement of society are objective, regardless of the will of people, but act through the action of people. Such a school certainly does not fit in the pit of the lions of the European Union and capitalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vassilis Kokalis from the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill being passed is moving in the right direction. Mrs Xulidou referred to the articles and, in principle, Mrs Xulidou was mentioned. You will allow me to refer to the - either by means of an introductory or unambiguous amendment concerning the Islamic mosque. The proponents of Jamio's rise invoke our constitutional provisions on dishonesty, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the national interest. They also invoke the fact that Athens is the only European capital without official mosque in operation, Greece's diplomatic relations with Muslim states. At the same time, they highlight the values of tolerance, humanism and culture. In fact, these defenders of this view of tolerance, not tolerated by the dissidents, are rushing to characterise them as being sceptical, xenophobic, racist, and even nationalists, so that the arguments of the latter can be denouncing and rejected without further serious examination and analysis. Allow me, Minister, to prove - with my few and humble powers and knowledge - that this amendment is incorrect, beyond the fact that it is late and that according to the articles of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure it has nothing to do with the bill, but also in its essence. It is appropriate that the political parties should, as soon as possible - and before it is late - approach the issue of Islam in Greece primarily political, social, cultural and secondary religious, in the interests of the national interest, which is basically national integrity, national sovereignty, as well as the security and well-being of Greeks and Hellenism. We Members must not forget that, on a mandate from the Greek people, we are here in Parliament, on an exclusive mission - for which we have sworn - to serve and defend the national interests of Greek citizens. The question of Muslim worship in our country is a complex issue and is directly or indirectly linked - in my view directly - to the corresponding problem of the European Union. The problem is not Greek. It's not and it shouldn't be Greek. The problem is European. It is also linked to our national vision and strategy for the formation of our society tomorrow, but also to immigration policy, which should be not only Greek, but European. Does anyone see that immigration policy must be European? Oh, no. So dealing with the question of mosques must be European and then Greek. It is also linked to the international treaties which bind our country to the Muslim states in our wider region, the European acquis and the Constitution of our country. The religious worship of Muslims in our country is certainly not banned. On the contrary, in the Attica basin, a hundred and fifteen mosques operate. In the wider area there are seven more, two in Thebes, one in Oinofitas, two in Chalkidas, one in Corinth and one in Marathon Avenue. The acute demographic problem faced by the European Union, which has reduced populations and made them older, has caused during the past few decades the constant and massive influx of labour, most of which have been Muslims. If you have noticed that the problem is European and not Greek. The initial euphoria and tolerance to this influx of Muslim populations in the Western countries, in European countries, in the 1980s and 1990s during which the concept of multiculturalism was dominated and hundreds of mosques were built in the European capitals, succeeded in reversing the climate, suspicion, fear and reaction for Muslims. What for? Because, over time, they remained vague, inappropriate and differentiated from the communities that hosted them, whether they were in Greece, whether they were in Great Britain, Paris or Germany. Cabins, ghettos, where different customs and customs prevailed, were created, with similar economic, social, religious and educational implications. There have been significant cases of terrorism and violence with many innocent victims in European capitals by Muslims, many of whom were born and raised in Europe. On this point, Minister, we should stress - perhaps Mr Lafazanis should be here - that it has nothing to do with the motto, the amendment in question, how this amendment is discussed, how it develops, with the Muslim community, a minority of Thrace, which has been fully assimilated to the Greek legal order, but also to the Greek society and should not be linked to the theological School of Halki and to our relationship with Turkey. The question is, and must be, and should be, European and then Greek, Minister. Unfortunately, it is regrettable that after the transformation the political system has deprived the ability and the feeling of responsibility required in order to define and formulate the country's national interests, national objectives and national strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the invoicing of constitutional provisions on dishonesty create false dilemmas and disorientate. On this point, I sincerely expect an answer from Mrs Bakoyannis and Mrs Christophilopoulou: to present us with a condemnation of our country from the European Union, from the relevant institutions, from the competent European Court of Justice to violate the religious rights of incoming Pakistani nationals, in all respects. I'm waiting for a conviction. The expected population overthrow in Greece and Europe posed the direct threats of cultural and social western conquests so far. If there is no coordinated cohesive national and European policy, the impact will be on all the upcoming generations, Europeans, Greeks and others. The West must respect the different culture of other states - and we respect it - and not act as a new crusader, with a view to imposing the western way of life throughout the world. At the same time, however, it should not jeopardise its very existence because of its cultural suspensions. The vast majority of Muslims located in Greece, especially in Attica, have crossed our borders illegally, so they are illegal immigrants. Even if few of them were legalized, most avoid it systematically, despite all the opportunities they had. Greece has exhausted its obligations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] My colleague, Mrs Xulidou, had put a question to the relevant Minister, who, in response to the 2014 question, replied that "it is noted that Greek citizens of Muslim religion contribute by means of their taxation, like all Greek citizens, to financing the implementation of State decisions". I agree and amplify. But illegal immigrants in what way do they contribute to taxation? Mr Minister, the amendment is incorrect. You have to withdraw it. You made your parliamentary enemies, Mrs Bakoyannis and PASOK join with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u196	So do we.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u197	You too. That is what you have achieved with this amendment. I would also remind you that several speakers of SYRIZA on September 1, 2011 were against the initial upheaval. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. At least I'll finish my thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u198	Mr Colleague, I'm making an appeal. If you want, follow her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u199	I shall conclude, Mr President. On September 1, 2011, in the Minutes of the Parliament, SYRIZA MPs were against building, at least for environmental reasons. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have also been election and post-election - we have said that in the run-up to the election - the good thing that is necessary in this government. We have to make mistakes and make mistakes. The amendment is wrong. It's impeccable. I am invoking the speeches and opinions of 1-9-2011 and the committee responsible and in plenary, Members of the SYRIZA who were against the mosque. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u200	Mr Loverdos has the floor from PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with something we agree with as a parliamentary group, but I too agree personally. This amendment on a small correction to certain technical issues relating to the building of the mosque finds us in agreement. After all, we have started this as far as we, as a government, were concerned in 2000. And to the argument that this mosque will in any way indulge terrorism, reverse the logic of things, invoke reality and substance, and say that the opposite will happen and the opposite happens. As long as you are not satisfied with demands relating to the rule of law, you are so fueling indignation and that hatred and so on. It is quite contrary to the argument on the basis of which this move initiated in 2000 is based and which should finally be completed, after the Council of State recently approved the formal legitimacy of the whole energy. Now, as far as our main issue is concerned, we are, ladies and gentlemen, talking about a counter-reformation. This is a counter-reformation, which the Prime Minister gave, in response to Mr Theodorakis on Friday, which was passed on and started a few hours ago by the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Education, in a draft law that we had in Parliament last week. We move on to counter-reform with this legislative initiative and then follow up. What the rulers around education are doing is creating a counter-reform that is obviously based on the refusal: it is abolished, abolished, abolished. I locate a device using this verb seventeen times. This is a counter-reform, in a non-democratic way, which is made up of the lack of dialogue on a draft law which does not contain an emergency regulation, and if there were such an amendment, it could go as an amendment to another draft law. This is a counter-reform which results from the contents of the regulations that I shall be addressing and from a more general problem facing democracy with the current government, and which occurs at very many moments in the quarter that the majority of SYRIZA - ANEL governs us. The manifest form of this lack of democracy is the amendment which abolishes all the administrations, I think, two hundred and three hundred - perhaps even more - legal persons, whose supervision the Ministry of Education has. And I wonder, Minister, whether the President of the Institute of Greek Language, Mr Kazazis, and the Quality Protection Authority in education, is missing, I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, where the validity of this amendment extends. It is an amendment, ladies and gentlemen, signed by the Minister of Education, Mr Baltas, but also broader, beyond the Ministry of Education, a manifestation of disrespect for democracy, following what is heard by the Government and by the newspaper "AGEY" and by majority MPs for the Governor of the Bank of Greece. You will become accustomed, ladies of the majority, to the interventions of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, whoever this is. As other politicians, MPs or ministers, who had to be familiar with previous Governors of the Bank of Greece in the past, had to be familiar with the past. This is the function of the Bank of Greece: to say the bad text, to say what can lead to a diversion. It's not part of her logic. And you should get used to it democratically. Otherwise, the rule of this place does not come to an end. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight something that I feel these days and weeks from the operation of the Ministry of Education. The dividing lines drawn by the Ministry of Education - each Ministry of Education - are not the usual ones. They have strong political and cultural content and are able to bring about divisions. Watch out for this. It's not like the others. He's got special sensations. Beyond the general blurred ideals, many times, your approaches, there are some issues related to the will of the Greek people, who, as you like to invoke the opinion polls, and education, as well as migration, health, economy and development, puts you under the base. There is a problem here with you, ladies and gentlemen, and we will be constantly stressing it, not to mention anything and to salvage something. So I spoke about counter-reforming with two basic features: the service of customer relations through a form of customer relations that you have described as counter-population, and also with interventions of anachronistic content. The major intervention of anachronistic content is Article 33 of the draft law on eternal students. The Prime Minister himself, in his parliamentary presence on Friday, showed to ignore the basic meaning of the regulations of the eternal students, that is to say, their deletion, which are not, ladies and gentlemen, economic issues, but the assessment of Greek universities and TEIs by international rating agencies, according to the existence or non-existence of a course of study. Is it too much for us to agree on this? We've been talking about this for many years and you seem to be ignoring it. Who told you that one or two euros that could save a secretariat from the paper are the reason why we dictated this regulation in 2011 and to which we also gave a social content? We gave two full periods of legislation in the summer. As has been said by other aspects here, let us give one more to cover the cases of the employees. However, the abolition of regulation abolishes the course of studies and the diplomas they receive from TEIs and from universities our children have a worse assessment than they would have with the existence of a course of study. Wake up! Greece is a country whose world is moving internationally. Wake up, finally! Return to the 19th century is not forgiven. There are people who see it and it is not people who are set up to make reactions and events. The reactions that are provoked and you will meet as long as the months pass in public life, against a people who put you under the base of your policies in education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u202	How much does he put you in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u203	Anachronistic, too, is the issue of the election of the school director. And customer and anachronistic! Why don't you have the students vote? What is the vote to elect a training executive with the work that this has to do, that is, the training executive, who is to run the training function? It is a tragic regulation and you must remove it. It is, on the one hand, the photograph of a customer-friendly and anachronistic political logic, which governs your presence at the Ministry of Education, whether it is the Minister or the Deputy Minister. Furthermore, there is an intervention by omission, ladies and gentlemen, that does not exist in the draft law and in which they have islanded it. We had established with effort and legislative intervention foreign language departments at universities and at TEI, in order to attract students from countries outside the European Union and obviously outside Greece, with tuition and teaching in English. The law was passed in December. It had to be a presidential decree, which laid down small details. The Presidential Decree type is blind to the Ministry of Education. It was adopted in mid-December. You know then the House broke up. We lost three and a half months to four months, not promoting this decree. You say 'We are not abolishing anything'. Yes, but at the University of Thrace, the Department of Letters has wanted to make such a part since September and to operate since September, with very great interest and with very many interactions with foreign institutions. They've done a job and you're leaving them on the road with this job. And you say, "We didn't hurt anything. It has not started to work yet." But it'd start in a few months if you'd facilitate its operation. Also, something we discussed very much in the previous period of the Parliament: What did you have to do with placing the IT course in the system of examinations? We did this placement, because it was really problematic to consider IT as only a means, not a science. To be an instrument, a science works to produce a better medium for you to work. How do you degrade her content? Why? Mr. Kourakis was present in all these discussions. He knows well, and then he does what he does. I don't have time. I will respect the President. I will close, omissioning too much of what I want to say. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, with the most intense letters, a statement from my own experience of decades, but that I have found many times in the letters that I read: equilibrium - and equality is understood as equalisation downwards, not upwards - leads to the toughest form of class education. Can I repeat it? Businesses, arrangements, measures, shaped consciences that function on the basis of equality downwards, are the most classic you can offer in education. What you do by suggesting the draw rather than the examinations and the way you structure the experimental and standard schools or what you do with the bank of things that you have not studied them, is blind obedience to the majority of the OEM trade Union leadership. The theme bank was a measure, ladies and gentlemen, which had problems with implementation. Now, as the application goes on to solve them, the abolition is axes to policies aimed at shaping beyond a plagiar and a student who thinks about it. A student who thinks in public school is a weapon against class education, as well as issues relating to experimental and standard schools. I would like to repeat - and I would like to conclude - that balancing offers education, what the Left is supposed to want to avoid, class. So, ladies and gentlemen, that is what I will conclude with you - you did not want to see a recession in Greece. You did not want to see any real measures - to say it as you say - and you have caused the recession in itself with your policies for three and a half months. Change line as early as it is! We have a government, ladies and gentlemen, which not only destroys the public economy and the development path that had begun in the last quarter of 2014 and which has stopped definitively and vertically in the two development years of 2015 and 2016 with the 3% growth projected by all international organisations, but also destroys migration, health, education, energy, the economy and development. The more their policies are exposed to these draft laws, the more the overall nature of a government that came to do harm will be apparent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I tell you that we need to pay more attention to time. We won't have time. Mr Georgios Aristotle from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was present throughout the debate of the bill and, unfortunately, I can see that it sometimes reminds me of either deaf dialogue or dialogue outside the subject. It is clearly stated in the explanatory statement - and we have said to all tons - that these arrangements are transitional and in this sense pilot, since the Ministry intends to carry out a more comprehensive reform of the education system later on, after a broad consultation with all the social actors involved and, of course, with all the members of the educational and scientific community. So I do not understand why the JRC denounces us that we did not open up all the issues at once. If we had opened up all the issues, then the JRC would have told us that we did not have enough discussions with society. Of course, this attitude is not new. If we go to an agreement, the JRC will state in advance that it will report to us. If we go to a break, the JRC again states in advance that it will report to us. In general, we know in advance that in any case the JRC will report to us. On the other hand, New Democracy, PASOK and Potami, when they do not openly defend social inequality with ideas of excellence, then openly defend obsolete ideals for minor effort. Anyone who believes sincerely in the 21st century that education means "children", let it have the effect of proposing the reintroduction of physical punishment. That's funny stuff. It is cheap ideologies behind them that the sad truth is that examination barriers are not meant for the children of privileged ones. These don't even have to give pan-Hellenic tests. They pay tuition fees to a good university abroad and are recognized as excellent or buy excellence from a bad university abroad. But they don't. The game is not for bourgeois children. The game is intended only for the many children of the people. The game isn't to learn, it's to exclude them from education, because the lot of education makes the man proud and the system doesn't need proud workers. The game is also to learn from young children to discipline, because the system needs disciplined workers. Well, we won't teach our kids through school to bend their heads! We thought about it and said it would be better to learn about it, to pursue the full-fledged development of personality, to cultivate creative and critical thinking, to strengthen democratic values. How? It is true that our work is difficult. The new government, with MPs who do not recycle corrupt political staff, is called upon to manage and deal with shortcomings and injustices that accumulated over the years. Especially in recent years, the Memorandum policies have had a dramatic impact on education. Remember the thousands of teachers who lost one day's work, the thousands of students who left schools, the thousands of young graduates who came to be added to the depressing lists of unemployment, the young scientists who were lucky to have taken the road to immigration, the giants of private education with working relations between the gallery, the disciplinary persecution. What should we first remember, the lessons in the frozen rooms and the children who fainted from hunger? For us social injustice is not a statistical graph, but a hard day's experience, against which we fought daily in and out of the halls. Today we are called upon to give not a definitive but a necessary and urgent solution to many of the things that we have experienced, according to what we can today, but in line with the requirements of the educational community. Of course, we have already said so, these urgent arrangements are not and could not be final. It is, however, in the direction we want. They are geared to a fairer school for all children. So, attributes to mention: The unscientific standard pilot school is abolished. From now on, experimental schools have the role to play in the term, as well as in import procedures and mode of operation to serve it. It will be the schools where pilot new practices are tested and conclusions are drawn that are necessary to formulate an educational policy for the benefit of the educational community and society as a whole. The examination system is reformed so that it gives children more choice at a time when the choice is decisive for their future. At the same time, the theme bank is confined to an advisory role. This is no longer a theoretical issue, as opposition is insisting on it. The theme bank has been tested and failed. It was linked to a 25% increase in care centres, an increase in school failure and 10% leak. In addition, the first and second grades are disconnected from the introduction to HEI and TEI. It is a regulation that takes enormous economic and psychological weight away from the shoulders of their pupils and families, while at the same time moving towards ensuring their autonomous role with the incalculable importance that this has from a pedagogical point of view. Another major issue is the abolition of new schools, the availability of dismissal of teachers in technical training. We're dealing with it. The areas that have been removed shall be re-established. These are areas of the most popular, the abolition of which has directly fed private education. Teachers are also being re-occupied who are in availability or made redundant. So, did you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, evaluate them 'the preachers of evaluation' to fire them? This is how elitist, but also classic, treating the previous governments for technical education, which has put it first and second-class school - as it has been facing it all these years - has undermined it further, not least for the children of the people's families. Technical vocational education should be given special attention by the state to the single high school of theory and practice, according to our programme. With regard to the selection of training staff, the interview for staff shall be abolished. This was a process that facilitated the party selection of executives. We all know - and the legislators surely - that the selection of directors was made at some party offices and PYSPE service councils, PYSPE, decided with the majority of them how to mobilize the selected ones. This was the procedure established by New Democracy and PASOK. And there were funny things going on. So this part of the selection process is abolished and is replaced by the opinion of the association of teachers who know both the candidate and the daily needs of the school. We therefore say that this process will make a decisive contribution to the correct and democratic choice. I would refer you to your choice, when, by your own decision, the selection of the Vice-Presidents was made with the proposal of the Association of Teachers. And I do not think anyone would argue that this procedure favours any kind of party position, as did previous regulations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Objections are raised as to the problems that could arise in the clubs in this process. We, however, trust the workers and democracy more than the cooking of the 'fathers'. In this spirit we will continue not only in education, but in all areas of government work, because this spirit of confidence in democracy and the world of work is our one-way path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, an amendment has been tabled by the Deputy Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis, who wants two minutes to develop it. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes, because time is suffocating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u207	I thank the Bureau very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns an extension of an existing amendment to the Athens Concert Hall with regard to the procedures for the payment of contributions to the IKA. This is a regulation and a short-term extension - this is four months - of this board of directors. In fact, this is an extension of a loose end. Meanwhile, we are working on a sustainable and definitive solution for the status of the administration and ownership of the Athens Concert Hall. That's the situation. We are also committed, for our part, that, in due time - rather than before the end of this prolongation - we will bring this House legislation that is sustainable and fair to guarantee the public interest, and that there is a sustainable solution for this great building and artistic stock in the heart of Athens, which has caused a lot of headaches both in the present government and in the past. If there is any question from my dear colleagues, I am at their disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u208	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u209	Minister, let us not start this process now, because we will be lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u210	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Sophia Vultimatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u212	And then I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u213	Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Last Friday, from this step, Prime Minister Tsipras, speaking of education, said that these issues are not neutral, that there is an ideological sign and that we are not coming here without our luggage. It turns out, after all, that he was right. However, SYRIZA’s luggage on the subject of education was well locked and their content kept it a thorough secret. They were brought as the "Custom", the poll, proclaiming that within there is a better life, the end of the memorandum, the end of austerity. But everything else SYRIZA hid from the people. He concealed them within a linen of political decisions, which the people were not obliged to read and analyze all, much more so that you had not even dared, ladies and gentlemen, to call excellence "rets" and school standards as "hits". However, this merchandise was well hidden, it turned out to be smuggled, it passed through the polls, and after the polls you open these luggage that Mr. Tsipras referred to and did not come out of the pigeons you promised, dragons come out. From these smuggling luggage, from this smuggling merchandise, dragons come out, because not only did they ultimately contain the end of austerity and the memorandum, but they also contained the dissolution of education, the end of excellence, the end of evaluation, which is inherent to human nature. Last weekend, the last smuggling baggage came in Athens. It became the "Cannabis Festival", i.e. the drug promotion festival, the promotion of addiction to substances, and not a leaf, with the participation of the young people of SYRIZA and the Department - it says - SYRIZA rights. Apparently, there's also a right to the press. They're all up. They have explained that all this is addictive and yet, we hear that it is a matter that needs to be discussed. They hear it at the moment and the parents and the Greek society, which knew nothing of it, that you had in your luggage the abolition of excellence and the debate on substances. We do not trust your luggage, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, because you too are voting closely. So when we talk about excellence, we do not mean so excellence and victory of the student on his side. The victory and battle and the speech shown by the student and the student are related to his victory in the course of knowledge. With himself, he comes into play, he competes with himself, with himself, who tries to achieve something better. And when we talk about "evaluating", we talk about something that exists everywhere in life, not all over the world but everywhere in life. And in any case, because these have been thrown out of your luggage, I have to say this: is it possible to discuss the fact that you have received such an order? Because lately in SYRIZA they have been discussing what the mandate given to them by the Greek people is. For another commandment was election, another presented at the first moment when they built their Government and another presents us now. Now, we are told "We don't know, we haven't received such a mandate, let's go to a referendum, finally find out what this Greek people wanted when they went and voted a hundred days earlier". Because you do not have such a mandate, therefore, especially on the issue of education, we assure you from this, the Stepma, that this is one of the first things to be abolished, when we are given the opportunity to return to it, which you demonize, excellence. I am also aware that your ministers, the Minister for Education himself, have finished a very good school. So why should the model school, which is the college of the poor, be abolished? So that only the rich can go to these schools, just the nomenoclatura? It's not like that. Because, with excellence, Greece grew up whenever it grew. The excellent ones are the ones who brought us the first awards between universities, such as Harvard or MIT, depending on the subject. Greece firmly comes first in the competitions: virtual trial, the School Law, first this year in the World Mathematical Competition, came first in Robotics, astronomy. How's that working out? Moderately? Also, I want to say something else about eternal students. The Prime Minister has shown that he does not know exactly what the problem is - other colleagues have said before - and said that it is an eternal communication problem because the budget is not being borne. But the problem is that our universities - to say it again - are showing up with a huge student population and when they go to assess the percentage of this virtual population, their successes are very small and come from the last ones on the international lists. Only in the last two years our universities have been in front of - yesterday it was announced in Crete, etc. - precisely because we cannot present such an unexistent, fictional, overpopulation. Of course, I was very impressed by what concerns the next bill, from what we understand, but to which Mr Tsipras referred. He spoke about the abolition of the electronic vote at universities - which is not there, but is in your intentions - by saying that the real mercenary committee is a server, which no skeptical can control. More anti-reform, no-scientific argument we could not hear. In the time of technology, we say that we cannot trust the technology that is being voted on in international votes? A secret server! In your mind, there is this "Great Brother" - supposedly - who prevents you from controlling the votes! Do you know where you'll end up? You will remove the evaluation from where we need it, i.e. education, and you will eventually make it the fifth evaluation, as is shown by the texts of the last few days, on the subject of the memorandum and the adaptation that you so much spend. I mean, you've still got the points. I close, Mr President, by saying that, because we are talking precisely about completely smuggling baggage and obviously expect other things - because there were other smuggling in these luggage - we are telling you that everything with which we disagree, we are saying before the Greek people that we will abolish it as soon as the Greek people give us this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Gregos, you will be a little patient because two parliamentary representatives, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Kremastinos have been asked to speak. Immediately afterwards, it'll be your turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u216	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, yesterday I was very happy to attend a very massive conference of protests against the initiatives taken by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in the field of education. It would be extremely interesting if you and the Minister - who, as I see, has not honoured today's debate on the articles at all - had you attended this debate and had you heard the speeches of people who have lived in the service of education. These people spoke with a lot of passion and intense concern about the education and tertiary and secondary issues involved in the bill we are discussing today. We have heard representatives of pilot schools, who have felt that in recent years something important was done in the field of secondary education, that they were finally given the opportunity to rated teachers - and I stress this - to be able to provide their services in a different environment and with students who were able to respond to what they wanted to do. We have heard stories of professors who very much described the reality that they experienced in universities, before the implementation of Law 4009 with pre-collapsing, with the opaque trade between dean authorities and party members, with the small minorities that had basically transformed the university into their own personal feud. And I wonder, really: is this the educational reality we seek to return to? Is your aim to tear down what was good or did it attempt to be done in the field of education with a great consensus in recent years? I was very surprised that the majority rapporteur has rushed to give this gathering a party colour. It did indeed - then withdrew - the 'natures of the memorandum', as if it were the reform of education, which was attempted by a memorandum policy. I am trying to see if you are so locked up in your own small world that you do not have any image and no one taking a show from what is going on in the rest of Europe and the rest of the world. You sometimes give me the impression that you are absolutely convinced that the rest of the world is going in the wrong direction, with this policy that everyone is moving without exception and you are baptizing it "neo-liberal" and only we here in Greece, invoking this Greek specificity, are better aware of how the educational system should work. From that point of view, there was - and there is still - an abstention in all those standards, which seek to achieve comparisons between the Greek education system - primary, secondary, tertiary - and what happens in other countries. The Bologna Process, the creation of a single higher education area. There is a discrepancy in the assessment of PISA, which, unfortunately, highlights the real pathogens of the secondary education system, that the fifteen-year-old Greeks are lacking in basic understanding and schoolchildren compared with the rest of the OECD countries. Unfortunately, all these concepts of comparison with other educational systems require the incorporation of concepts, which are foreign to you: Assessment, a comparison that promotes noble competition, merit, extroversion. These concepts, however, are not familiar to you. I remembered the other day that the Prime Minister had a meeting with the OECD Secretary-General, Mr Guria to transform reformal know-how into Greece. Do you not ask Mr Guriam what are the best OECD practices for education systems? Ask him. Bring the OECD, which you now call on as a reform expert, to talk to you about the reforms that you are promoting and about models that you are trying now and which have been tested elsewhere and which have failed. Why don't you do that? Why are you not looking for best practices, so that you can really understand where you want to go and where you want to drive the country? You do not, because you are locked up in an ideal framework of return to the past, which I fear you cannot escape. Indeed, it is impressive that you are still in a hurry to legislate on issues that are so sensitive, without any dialogue, without any consultation with previous heads of the Ministry of Education, so that there will be an elementary follow-up at last to educational policies, so that it is not always the poor of children, but also the teachers with each Minister of Education, who every time he comes and does what he thinks is right. I found in my archive a very interesting interview of an eighteen-year-old - listen, you will be interested, Minister-Chairman of a school board, who said some years ago: "Every party minister who comes brings the tops down. Our country can never go forward unless there is universal policy, at least in the field of education. And, of course, when a promise, such as that for dialogue on education, is being destroyed, nothing can make us optimistic, even at a minimum. When dialogue is lacking, when everything is decided in the absence of pupils, parents and teachers, there can be no proper educational programme and proper education." Do you know who said that? Mr Alexis Tsipras in 1992 as Chairman of the Single Polycladian High School of Athens. I fear that the Prime Minister, eighteen, was more mature than the Prime Minister, for forty, because precisely these concepts, which he referred to some years ago, today, unfortunately, seem to be leaving them. I am also presenting the relevant quote in the Minutes for colleagues to look into it. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Unfortunately, I have no time - I will also use my dentistry, Mr President - to talk again about the individual articles in the bill. I will only speak quickly. The question of model schools is, I think, exhausted and, indeed, no explanation has been given, because it is the previous model of model schools as a failed model. Why are these schools, which were really the refuge for the excellence of skilled children, who could not have recourse to private education, abolished it in this disgraceful way? Why are you denying the poor children the possibility, through examinations, of claiming access to a model experimental school, because they can well coexist both - it is a lie that they cannot coexist with both - which could provide them with one of the best forms of education, so that lessons from these schools tomorrow can go to the other schools too? No convincing explanation was given why you are doing this, but your physical allergy, your physical opposition to any discrimination, in any sense of excellence. For the selection of directors I have heard an outcry from colleagues from SYRIZA in the sense of the interview. That's an old matter. We have discussed this in this Chamber before. It's like there's some other tried way to assess it, except for the interview. As if there is a system of personnel selection either in the private sector or in the public sector, which does not use the interview. And instead of coming to recognize this reality and sit down and discuss it together, Minister, how the interview can be truly transparent, how can it be done with standards, how can it be ensured that it is not possible for party interventions, you come and say that the school manager is elected by teachers or teachers, so that the good will is always elected, not the useful one. These systems were tried and failed elsewhere. And I fear that if there is no objective model of evaluation of managers, such as what we introduced, Mr. Minister, a total of public administration, and Mr. Katrugalos has rushed to abolish it, without replacing it with anything else, then the managers, the heads will be elected by the subordinates, on the basis of the carpets they will be made by them. It will be the absolute prevalence of union, not only in education, but also in public administration. I should like to close, Mr President, so that I do not misuse time, with a general remark. I have the impression that one of the reasons, which is so rapid and so hastily brought these bills, which are based on a strong ideological colour, in plenary for a vote, is precisely because you want in this way to appease, perhaps calm your left components, in view of a forced adjustment, which you will make to the major issue of national negotiation, which concerns the financing of the country. I listened with interest to the Prime Minister from this point of view, in reply to a relevant question last Friday, to refer again, ladies and gentlemen, to the need for political negotiation, and indeed also made interesting comparisons. What did the Prime Minister tell us? That Greece entered the European Economic Community in 1979 with political negotiation. But he forgot a very small detail, ladies and gentlemen. Greece may have entered a political negotiation, but entered, because at that time an enlightened leader, against the will of the majority of the Greek people, built the necessary alliances abroad that allowed him to make this political negotiation. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that Mr Tsipras was not Konstantinos Karamanlis and will never be Constantine Karamanlis. Such comparisons at this juncture, only funny ones can imagine. So let us step aside the political negotiation and come to the bottom of the real debate, which is nothing but the conclusion of the agreement, which you yourself signed, and because of your internal contradictions you cannot implement. Time is now suffocating. Money's over. The country is faced with the range of bankruptcy, internal payment posture and any thought to "fly the ball" of this decision to the Greek people, through a possible referendum, ultimately hides the fear of the government's majority in the face of the dilemmas it created. So finish the deal. Give a solution to the big financing problem of the country and stop negotiating with your internal components, so that you can face the political problem, which your own populism has created. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, make sure that Members speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u221	I have made several calls. From that point of view, the Bureau cannot cut the floor. You know it's also a matter of political elegance. You must realize yourself that there is a problem. I'll read the list from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u222	But make sure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u223	The following is Mr Cremastinos as Parliamentary Representative. After Mr. Cremastino, two Members will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u224	If you want to talk to two MPs and then talk to me, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u225	I have this show because it's better. I'll tell you what the Bureau says to do. As I said, you will speak, two Members will follow. It's Mr. Gregos and Mr. Danellis. Mrs Lyberakis will speak as a parliamentary representative. Two Members will be followed again, Mr Damovitis and Mr Constantopoulos from PASOK. Mr. Petrakos will be speaking as a parliamentary representative. Two Members will follow, and then Mr Pappas will again be the parliamentary representative. That's how it'll be next. Ladies and gentlemen, four or five colleagues will be left next. I hope we'll be done if we keep time by 20:00. Time is 17.50 minutes. I think we'll make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u226	Will the roll-call vote be held at 20.00?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u227	Yeah, that's what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u228	If it's over at 20:30, the world's not gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u229	It follows, Mr Mitsotakis, as you know, the act of legislation and discussion. We're not going home later. That's why time is pressing. We've got this after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u230	You guys have two hours!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u232	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. I will not speak on a point of order. I just want to add something that matters to Parliament's services. In the title of the bill, the words 'and other provisions' are added so that the services can work with a sufficient degree of competence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, I was concerned to hear Mrs Vulture say: 'This counter-reformation will be overthrown'. You understand what this means, one party to overthrow the other party's reform, to overthrow the other party's counter-reformation. And all this, in an environment that one cannot easily understand. I didn't go to the gathering of academic university teachers yesterday. But I saw the poster saying: "No Baltas in education, not Baltas in education, not Baltas in education..." In other words, they face the problem with the Minister of Education, not even with the Deputy Minister, not even with the party or parties that coexist. And the Minister of Education, Mr Baltas, is not here to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u236	Excuse me, Mr. Comrade. If I may, the Minister is on the Governing Council. The Deputy Minister's been here all day. In other words, the Minister is not unjustified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Petrakos, you will take the floor later, and you will speak comfortably. Let's not have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u238	The Minister gave me - I think - the possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u239	The Minister, but not the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u240	What I wanted to say, Mr Petrakos, is that Mr Baltas, after a stench he had with Mr Mitsotakis, as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy the other day, left and did not listen to the parliamentary representatives, who actually express their party policy, not their personal policy. So he did not respond to this important debate today. The debate is important, for the simple reason that we have a major problem here. Are these changes leading to the upgrading of public schools or their degradation, as others are accusing them? And the teachers of yesterday's gathering are blaming themselves. Does this upgrade also contribute to competitiveness? I have said so in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. So the children of poor financial families, of poor families - to say it clearly - will be lower than the rich, who may go to private schools, study in Switzerland, abroad, wherever others do not have that right? Can there be only four school models in Athens and there are at least one standard in each region? As you know, there are remarkable standard schools in the region and there are children who lack the opportunity to study in private. So public education and the universities, by extension, want to raise rather than level. For levelling does not really help those who support at least the parties that co-govern and we do, of course, support. Equivalence helps others. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I therefore consider it necessary to answer basic questions in this bill, which have not been answered. So, limiting standards to four, if I'm not mistaken, what does it serve? For historical reasons, do four standards remain? Also, the issue raised by Mrs Bakoyannis: the fact that we have a standard high school and do not have a standard high school what is the point? They're questions that leave too much smoke, too much scourge. Also, the theme bank that everyone yells about, do we understand what it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u241	Oh, yeah, we've lived it from our kids!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u242	Here we have the curriculum and the material actually taught. The theme bank somehow required schools to teach a particular material. We know that for a number of reasons, not all the matter is taught in all schools. To give the topics from the topic bank, to give some kind of information to teachers who are about to move, this does not serve the essence of education. The essence of education, unfortunately, is served in a classic way, that is, with labor and hardship long and sweat very much. It's no different. Education has no other way to go in any place, length and width of the world. So why is this rush? The Prime Minister said, in reply to a question from the President of the Parliamentary Group, Potami, Mr Theodorakis, that the previous bill that was passed was a bill that was not debated much. It's been discussed for two years! After discussing two years and not much, let this be discussed for three years. Why should it be urgent? Secondly, some told the Prime Minister that the President of the Republic did not vote for the bill. Did I raise from the Minutes of the House the speech of Mr. Pavlopoulou and what did I see? He made his self-criticism for the bill passed by two hundred and fifty five MPs, as I did my own criticism of that bill, but he did not separate his position from saying that he was voting against it. And the greatest? In a phrase he said: "I" - Pavlopoulou that is - "I have never applied to the administrative bodies of the University". Why? "Because," he says, "they were transaction products with students, with teachers, with the lowest grades in relation to the teachers who voted for them." Well, that thing's coming now and he said it himself. I can assure you, Mr Petrakos, that I too - and Mr Fortsakis is here - have never given my career a candidate, nor as a member of the assembly, nor for a dean, nor for a branch president, nor even for a sector manager. And this, for the same reason that Prokopis Pavlopoulos mentioned. There are here - and you will see it - people, possibly party leaders, who voted for the old bill. Now they're going to vote against these changes? And if there really is a problem of voting, if we are convinced by the government, by the ministers, that what they say is right, then we will vote too. We have no reason to oppose education. Why would we do that? But if it is to build party education for any party of PASOK, it is either SYRIZA or the New Democracy that at least I and many others here are against. This is a crime for the country. I would suggest that Mr Baltas, if he were here, withdraw the bill now, open a dialogue, if he has an urgent article, go through it, I have no objection but to open a dialogue. Two years was the last? Let's do this for three years, so we can end up in something to benefit this place. Otherwise, it is not possible to hear that 'we will just come to power, we will all the things that you vote now get them back' and children listen to them in schools, in high school, in universities. Hey, these things aren't serious! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Kremastein. Mr. Gregos Antony has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President, and I tell you that I will keep the time. I want to comment on what the previous speaker of the New Democracy said, that they will abolish, says, this bill, when they come to the government. There's no way that would happen, of course. Most likely we will come to the government and make a real bill, as appropriate to the Greek people, Greek students and their families. It also commented on the event held in the Constitution. When the Golden Dawn made food distributions, the Mayor of Athenians had banned these distributions of food, and contrary to this disgraceful event that took place with the hashish and the other substances he did not come out to make a protest or issue a ban. In fact, he had sent the MATs to us. I say, to remember some things, which are very important. Also, Mr. Loverdos referred to the Governor of the Bank of Greece, who never explained to us what finally happened with the proceeds from the sale of the Ionian Bank. In a statement in a closed circle, he said it was an unfortunate investment. And so it was all over, it was just an unfortunate investment. We have said in principle that we will vote against it. But I want to say some basic things. Article 1 defines the guidance groups and classes of courses in the 3th grade and the 4th grade of Esperinos, as well as the timetable for general education and selection courses. In essence, this is an addition to the corresponding article of n.4186/2013 on the basis of the logic of the introduction of the scientific fields. We are also voting against Article 2. As I have said before, it is defined that the examinations are carried out in the school and that the theme bank should be removed. The same article defines the average redundancy requirement in '9.5', but it is only exported from the written courses in question, which directly reduces the course of physics, which for us is very important. We are voting against Article 3. The fact of the definition of the subject matter of introductory examinations in higher education only by the Central Examination Committee is supposed to strengthen the incompatibility of the examinations, but this is not the case. In the same article, in paragraphs 4 and 5, the release of promotion and dismissal grades from the degree of access to the university is explicitly mentioned. In practice, this means full indifference by students for the majority of courses, except for four or five courses, depending on the choice of one or two scientific fields. We are also voting against Articles 4 and 5. As far as the articles on the ESDP are concerned, we are also voting against them. We are also voting against Articles 8 and 9. In Chapter B, we are voting against Article 10 on standards and experimental schools. We are voting against Articles 11, 12, 13 and Article 14 on the selection of teachers for standards and experimental schools. We are voting against Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 on the criteria for the selection of training staff and Article 29. We are voting against Articles 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and Article 25 which describes the procedure for selecting school heads and school heads. This is a resumption of the Article 20 procedure. We are also voting against Article 26 and Article 27. In this article, the term of office of all school directors, educational directors and school councils is two years, that is, half of what Article 25 of the Law provides for. 3848/2010. This is a very short term mandate, which will not allow the school or education director to carry out a serious training programme, and the launching of any programme will commit the next director. We are voting against Rule 28. In Article 29, I have noted that given that the transfer of university students is forbidden, there is indeed a problem with the members of the Armed Forces, who also have their student status, as their transfer does not allow them to attend the courses of their school in the city it is located. We believe that the exception to the military personnel, to the transfer to another university near the city that they are serving, is a question that will be difficult to disagree with and that we can vote on. We are also voting against Articles 30, 31, 32. I would just like to make a few comments so that we do not spend more time. We told the Minister not to pass on the responsibilities concerning the urgency of the draft law. We were sure that there would suddenly be such a big bill coming into another process of the Contonis Law. We had denounced the submission procedure to the committee, but we also respect the students and their families on the subject of the examinations. Unfortunately, we also see in this bill issues relating to education that are being dealt with by the government with a sloppy and party criteria. The most famous ELME and ALLME, instead of dealing with the problems of education - there are students who do not know the difference between 28 October and 25 March - are seeing judges in the Golden Dawn trial. Of course, all of these have never condemned the attack carried out by invasion orders - teachers in the field of the Golden Dawn - in the recent elections. Let me say that our MPs, executives and members are in constant contact and cooperation with teachers. We are informed every day about the problems of education and we are proposing solutions. We are involved in the associations of parents and guardians, councils and committees. It is our duty to learn the history, language and culture of our children and to make a thorough check in school books, to remember here and here that an abortion of Reposi, which I do not know if it ended a school and what school ended, but there was no crowding. Parents, but also students, should filter and judge every attempt to distinguish ideologies, because the risk of Marxism really exists. Another very serious issue, which affects education, is the attempt to impose multiculturalism, this scourge that is trying to implement and impose some morbid minds for us, because education, culture and science are created by every people. Unfortunately, the problems in education appear at all stages, culminating in higher education, where the universities paid by the Greek people have been transformed into Japanese terrorists and well-known SCCS raids and something like that. It's all very well known, Mr. Fortsakis, who was in college. You know these order actions, but you never denounced them. Everyone knows that if a student does not keep up with the will of all these false revolutionaries, there is also the consequences - beatings, propaganda and everything else - and unfortunately all this is in the knowledge of both the teachers and the fighters. During the hearing of the bodies, but also according to their memorandum, they almost all disagree with the bill, the Association of Chemicals, Physics, Informatics, Sociologists and universities. We could never agree with the article, which deals with eternal students, which is really anger. Of course we disagree, like the entire Greek people, with the mosque amendment. The PASOK and the New Democracy have started it, and SYRIZA is now expanding it. They are fully responsible to the Greek people and they will give reason for that too. The Casiari competitor said so too, because the word 'democratic' sounds very much, if you can, do a referendum on this, namely on the mosque. Of course, you will not dare to do so because you will understand that the Greek people are reacting and under no circumstances wants mosques and no place. In every bill we are used to tabling our proposals. I mention some of you: Expansion of the teaching hours of ancient Greeks, a language alive in the depth of the centuries. The real upgrading of the institution of excellence. The introduction as a basic lesson at all levels of traffic education because, as you know, a town is lost every year. In this respect, we have also tabled a topical question to which the relevant Minister is asking - I shall read it out in summary, but it is very important - to introduce the teaching of traffic instruction as a lesson in the classrooms of high school and high school, which will also include practical training for pupils, so that it can be a factor in preventing road accidents. I put the text of the question on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Gregos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Finally, we suggest the actual upgrade of the course of physics. Unfortunately, Greeks are in the first positions on child obesity. We believe it's the least internet and most sport and we're joining ourselves in the patriotic national arc and we're fighting for a national education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr Grego. Mr Danellis Spyros from Potami followed by Mrs Liberakis Antigone, Parliamentary Representative of the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, the three-fold substantial abolition of experimental standards - the abolition of evaluation - the selection of directors from teachers' associations is a disappointing first sample of your Government's writing for all of us who believe that the exit from the crisis, both economic and also value depends on education. Your Ministry, Minister, has a key role to play in the realization of the economy over time. The economic and social collapse, the expansion of inequalities outside and in the country require as much as ever to ensure equal opportunities for our children for the best, with knowledge and competences that will allow them to be citizens, scientists, entrepreneurs and craftsmen of the world. You are being reformed with great importance, Minister. Make a little patience and bring us a structured proposal for education and the educational system that will support it, your vision, your vision, the left vision, not the cultural vision of the 1980s to which it is addressed today, but tomorrow's - "quarrel" has been named by the Minister, it has a special symbolism and response to substance, I think. Changes in society and the economy go through education. The world has changed. Today we are all members of a global knowledge and information society. In May 1968 young people then asked for imagination in power. The "first time left" shows a complete lack of imagination, envisioned in such a sterile way yesterday's death. That's too bad. The talented children must and can be distinguished independently from origin, social status and economic situation. So, upwards, for the better not to simulate the levelling-out, not to the national autism you are proposing, by denying the global debate on key knowledge, on education for the future proposed by Edgar Moreen, that is to say, denying the theoretical processes of the Left's own education today. Instead of migrating the institution of experimental schools standards, you set up new ones in every people’s neighborhood. Where he opens one, he closes an organization of hooligans or extremes. At the same time as the Greek school ever takes to pull forward, you yourself cancel the homes of excellence. It is not a solution to abolish the few existing schools, but to block the popular degraded districts with even more such schools. The good traditions of the Left have always linked the social advance with learning and the quality of knowledge, while the decadent self-determined as the Left claimed the minor effort, the democratic "5" - now we make it "9,5" - enlightened leaders, real organic intellectuals, such as the memorable Gregory Pharakos, pushed the restless youth forward with "First in courses, first in the struggle". Only dark brains can connect isotomy to lower levelling. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak not only on the basis of ideology and my beliefs in standards and experimental schools and education as a whole, but also on the basis of my experiences and personal perception. My big daughter goes to a good, very good, public high school, and the little girl went into exams this year. Between two good schools, the work that comes out in experimental, qualitative and quantifiable criteria is not comparable to good public. Obviously, there are issues which seek to improve in the context of the work of the pilot and experimental schools. We must correct this, but not demolish it. Let us allow every school community of pilot schools to choose the type of school, standard or experimental, that it wishes to follow. Let us free the teachers of the pilot and experimental schools from the occupational insecurity regime, since they are, alone, in the public sector, without having an organic position. The prediction of giving them organic positions in the region is punishable for already servants and dissuasive for experienced and skilled teachers with an organic position in other schools who wish to serve in a model or experimental one. Imagine a teacher from Heraklion having an organic position when retiring from the experiment in Sitia or Chania. And if your criteria are classic, Minister, show similar importance in dealing with the open wound to misconduct, for which we have not yet heard from anyone. You maintain the standard high school of Life in Yannina, but you don't tell us why you're pulling out of high school. About now, about the election of the managers in primary and secondary education, where did you see the existing ones elect their supervisor and the system running? The Director must be above, have knowledge, administrative skills and physical authority, which arises from them alone. Stay away from dependencies and work. The good manager is not necessarily the most popular. Look around the public and private sectors. Where managers are selected on the basis of their highest qualifications, following evaluation and not after the judgment of their colleagues, because of the maps they would be made, the system goes clock. Instead of strengthening the insurance profiles of objectivity in the judgement of directors, your unscrupulous allergy in any evaluation leads to the risk of selecting incompetent managers and the disastrous fragmentation of the harmony and understanding of the teachers' association. While the left trade unions of the earlier era were constantly shouting for qualifications, the blocking of the Paleopasian trade union puts other priorities away. We have also seen your criteria in selecting the disappointingly reduced qualifications of the new regional training directors. However, inappropriate prescribes of decline and failure are anxieties, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, the historic juncture requires that you give us your mark, the destination and the route of your own ship, called secondary education and tomorrow's tertiary. Bring us your proposals for school to discuss them and above all seek consensus, because education over time and worldwide is the field of national efforts to build a better tomorrow. Finally, I would like to say that Potami will be voting in favour of Amendment 131/19 concerning the treatment of an error in the diagram accompanying the n. Council Regulation (EC) No 3512/2006 on the creation of a common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. The issue, of course, some people consider it to be being offered for cheap political impression and populism. In Greece, I would remind you that there has been a law on the building of Attica since 1934, but since then there has been constant hypocrisy and unbearable populism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. As for what is happening in Europe, to which my colleague from the ANELs referred, everywhere in the rest of Europe there are adorable places for all religions and doctrines. And here, unfortunately, we are desperately alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mrs Liberaki, Parliamentary Representative of the River, is calling on Stepma. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-six students and students and five teachers from the Elementary School of Eve Messinia. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary representatives, please, will inform Members that the roll-call vote will take place at approximately 20.00 noon. It's multi-vote, Mr. Mitsotakis. It is twenty-one on the thirty-four articles. Let the Members be informed. So the roll-call vote will begin at 20.00 - to keep time. Here you go, Mrs. Liberaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, children, adolescents, young people and young people do not grow in a cocoon, they do not grow behind closed doors or closed windows of an introverted world. They grow in a world of great, colorful, difficult, unpredictable and very demanding. We don't help them if we push them out of class and grade. This is well known, large and small, in all the geographical lengths and backs of the earth. They know that in poor countries too, they also know it in poor neighbourhoods in poor countries. Listen to a story. Once, an international development organisation envoy had to go to a slum, a dump site, in fact, on the outskirts of an African country's capital, the poorest region of a very poor country on a poor continent. There, then, I had to see whether the school that was being built, with the help that had been secured, proceeded in the right way, and of course, to speak with students, teachers and teachers, parents, mothers and dads, as well as with local institutions. The project had not been completed. The school, I was expecting to find it in the walls and keep the roof. And that's how I found it. What impressed me most was that the representatives of the parents, mothers and dads, who said to us: 'Don't you think we could put this solid roof in the program, keep the plastics and the gums a little, so that we can put a few hours of English into the program?' "English?" I say. 'Yes,' says the lady, 'English, because children are growing up in globalisation and we need to give them supplies'. When I told my students and students in Panteion, they were laughing at each time and I told them that every time they refused to read the articles of the Nobel Bible in a prototype. I want to tell you both from the same experience and as a passion - and as a mother and as a teacher - that the foreign language is the most difficult lesson, the most difficult thing to learn. So, the need for difficult conquered knowledge, for knowledge that is hard to conquer, they all recognize it and they all do it everywhere. Therefore, our educational system at the various levels should look into it in the light of this large, light - colored demanding world in which children, adolescents and adolescents, young people and young people are growing up. How can we make the big picture? How does our education system stand through the global education system? There we have a tool, the comparative analysis of Pisa made by the OECD and that George Papandreou - at some point, as Minister of Education, had us. So the OECD's comparative reports, which we have heard the Prime Minister mention very often, find some basic problems in the performance of Greek and Greek 15-year-old students and students. The first is that the performance of pupils and pupils in Greece is significantly less than the performance of pupils and pupils of the same age in countries that spend less resources per student. We also lag behind, compared with other countries, which have a lower level of development than us. The second finding is that as far as the money we have spent in recent years on education is concerned, if we compare the impact of the corresponding amounts on other countries, we are seeing either greater progress or faster progress. The third finding is that the Greek education system is the most centralised and negative to taking into account the particular needs and different requirements of the different groups of students. As far as 'concentrating' is concerned, I think we all understood it when the Minister comes to Parliament by law to cut off an hour from New Greek and put an hour into social science. The fourth finding is that Greece is one of the few countries in Europe, which does not have a system of evaluation of the education provided, the schools, the process of teaching, the results, except for PISA and the introductory examinations at the university. In general, there is no certification and evaluation mechanism to be applied in such a way that performance can be compared internationally in order to ensure quality. The last finding - and I think this also touches on the elements of the provisions that we are discussing today, in this draft education bill - is that while there has been significant progress in the percentage of pupils and pupils who successfully complete secondary education, and manage to enter university, higher education, the percentage of people who complete their studies in higher education in Greece is retreating. I mean, we have a deterioration. I am telling you all this, to remind you that what we are discussing, this bitter taste you perhaps have of many of you in this debate that we have had these two days in this House, will perhaps remind you that in each of the remarks of our own educational system, within the great global picture, the government is giving a solution, a response that brings us one, two, perhaps three steps back. It is a great pity that a space such as the Left, which may not have known how to negotiate, to solve budgetary problems and not have been prepared for them - rightly the first, less justified the second - its own privileged field, education, it uses it to wrap candy, comforting those who are struggling for what is going to happen with the negotiation in our country, sharing and implementing bad election obligations, unworthy of history, but also of the value of the Left's contribution to Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. Mr. Damavonite has the floor. Mr. Petrakos is next, unless Mr. Constantopoulos comes in, who takes the lead. Here you go, Mr. Damabite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. The characteristics of the principle of creation have to do with evolution and, above all, with the conclusion of a number of issues. In this case, I would like to refer to the amendment that comes to the building of the mosque, and I would like to focus our opinion on the fact that we are calling for the withdrawal of the amendment on two points, on spatial and economic grounds. Surely the citizens of the country - all citizens of the country - - regardless of religion and nationality have the right, and within this equal right is how they practice their worship, depending on the doctrine and religion they are. Nobody says otherwise. But there must be a framework and, above all, a strategy so that, when we go to develop this, there will be no careless moves which will ultimately create conflicts. The Botanic is an area that already has too much Muslim element. As soon as what the amendment wants - why are some urban contours actually removed to start up and start up the eruption processes - can one imagine, if the eruption begins, how many people will start there? The calculations, according to the percentage of Muslims we have here, are that up to thirty thousand people will go there. Are you computing what's going to happen in the surrounding areas? You figure out what's going to happen to the Botanic when that happens? You figure out what's going to happen in Cologne? What should be done with the university, with the partners that are surrounded by Aigleo? Because when this outbreak is created, because of the population polarization it will have, it will also create a displacement. Residents will not be able to keep their properties and homes in front of this fact, which will be rapidly growing, and they should be selling. And it will suddenly create something that we do not want, a ghetto, even though we want people - and all the Muslims have the right - to exercise their adorable duties and the state must ensure that this request by Muslim citizens of this country rests. The other is funding. The Greek State grants the space. He will take over the study, build up, maintenance, undertake to pay the board of the mosque structure, undertake to pay the mosquito and take up his maintenance in the peninsula. Let me just tell you that where there are Greek churches everything, the Greek community takes care of everything and that happens with all the communities. In all Member States, there is never a national case, except for a minimum of exceptions. For example, at the ground zero in the United States, where we had the fall of the twin towers with the events of September 11, the church, which was there, will be re-engaged. It will cost 35m euros. The designer is the well-known Calatrava. All the costs have been borne by the Greek community. He's undertaken to pay both the priest and the function. I think that when we are doing fundraisers to build each other's church, it is not fair for the Greek State to bear that cost, since in most countries of the world, the communities are taking over. I just wanted to say that the point is only about the center. We are interested in going regionally, so that Muslims on the ground can also serve. In this massive turnout, which will have the mosque, can one check at the big festivities if with the immigrants, the legitimate citizens of this country, also come illegal immigrants? He can't control it. So you realize the problems this is going to have. Mr. Danellis said before, in his suggestion, the 1934 law talks about mosques in Attica. He's actually talking about mosques in Attica. However, the point needs to be re-examined, because this point creates all these problems I mentioned before. As I referred to Potami, I would like to talk about the statements I made before on the relic of St Barbara. It does not require you to be profane, but at least don't be a godfather. Is there a reason? We respect what each one believes. But we're not making fun of what another person thinks. A little seriousness in this matter, I believe, is not harmful. Especially from the river. So far, we have had Mrs Repussi in the House. It's not nice aesthetics to take her place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u251	Non-theobstructive is with state head of state's price.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u252	Don't interrupt the speaker. Go on, Mr. Damabiti.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u253	So I stress that each one’s religious beliefs are a personal matter. But the security of conducting certain customs, which the Orthodox tradition has, is good for people elected by the Greek people not to walk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Damabiti. Mr Constantopoulos Dimitris has the floor. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Petrakos and then Mr. Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, is next.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we have waited for the Eurogroup tobacco for so many days. There's no result. I was in Ioannina for the weekend. That's a great deal of concern. A lot of questions: What's going on? Where are we going? Unemployment is growing too. Young people are disappointed. The elders are concerned about everything that's going on. It has been almost four months, and we have all expected that the government will prejudge a new development plan, it will propose a new production web for the country, so that Greece will enter a productive reconstruction process. We expected the government to have a development plan, with pillars of development, which will support the country's wealth and bring investment to the primary sector, to energy, to shipping, to processing and to tourism, which is our heavy industry. We were therefore expected to enter a normal development and production orbit, because we all know that the borrowings have come to an end. Greece must produce its own domestic wealth, which will be redistributed to its citizens. To rely on her own legs. In that direction, no talk. Nobody says anything. We expect the negotiations to be concluded almost three months and something. The country is in 'em waiting'. He's on a setup, as a grandpa told me in Mesolonghi. We expect the Prime Minister to come to the House and let us know what's going on. Tell the Greek people the truth. Personal strategies do not go any further. The warden's policy has short feet. Well, rule. This is the message, not to make the hope and dream of the world a nightmare, and the question of our country unpredictable. In 2012, SYRIZA said that "we are living the torture of the drop". I would therefore refer them to this today as an answer to their position at that time: that is what society feels. Gentlemen of the government, don't be late. Act what you promised the Greek people by election. That is why you voted for it. Move forward. The citizens expect you to implement your commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I come from the field of education. I know what order it means. I have lived through all the reforms in education and with their failures and with their awkwardness, and I can certainly say that this bill marks a great regression. Changes were made that strengthened the democratic and objective nature of education and reduced inequalities. Today the government annulls these institutions in education truly governed by merit. It brings to Parliament fragmentary arrangements at all levels of education that produce pathogens. This is neither left nor progressive. Chapter 1 : Amendment of the provisions of the Treaty. 4186/2013 will only bring problems, Minister. The students who complete the second grade and while preparing to consider the time with the existing status, are now removable and without knowing the matter, but also the way in which they will be examined next year. You reduce, Minister, in the programme of the Third High School the hours of guidance course from twenty-five to fifteen, and distribute them to general education and choice courses. And I'm really wondering, Minister, do you know what's going on in the course of the year in the second and third grades? Students are stepping up their work on exams at the university, and this means putting general education courses on second degrees. In other words, they are only being observed by saying 'the present'. That is the reality, Minister. We have to accept it so we can better plan the school's operation. In this respect, no proposal has been made. The teaching of guidance courses resulted in a widening of material and a weakening of misconduct. You're canceling this. It was established for the first time a mandatory laboratory time in Physics, Chemistry, Biology, every week in High School III. In fact, you canceled her. You give students the choice in a course to have access to a second scientific field. Do you think, Minister, that with fifty pages of material from a different scientific field, will a student be able to enter a section of a different guidance group and complete his studies without knowing the core of the knowledge that the school requires? The answer will be given by the students themselves. Be sure they'll fly into the bucket of unusable settings. You are abrogating, Minister - and I am really sorry as a teacher - the table on the subject. And you say 'themes exclusively from teachers'. You don't want an objective rating. The state has served all schools throughout Greece to ensure that the material is taught in an uninterrupted manner. So I ask: do you not want the same matter to be taught in all Greek schools? This was guaranteed by the theme bank. So, Minister, you close your eye in misery. Because with the existing system, the teacher has the ability to put two of the four themes on the table and the two themes on the table were classified instruction and difficulty. So why are you tearing all this up? You're saying there's no detailed programs for graduation 3. It's not true. Detailed timetables had been drawn up. You seek, for the reason of the truth, the FEK. You say, Minister, that the books had not been prepared. Do you have the books ready? Here you do not know the matter that will be taught next year. So don't use cheap arguments. It changes the status of experimental, standard schools. State in detail what the standards will be. You want to encourage private education in this way. You remove from every region of Greece the right to have a standard experimental school. Why are you doing this? It's a big mistake. Today, in these model schools, they are children from both public and private sectors. The conclusions are therefore yours with all these regulations that you propose. Minister, we have already raised the issue of urgency and the unprecedented study of changing school and management staff. You have created a protracted inconvenience in schools with unforeseen consequences. You've achieved exactly the opposite of what you've been targeting. Instead of strengthening all teachers with a new collectiveity and clear operating framework, you are setting up teams in schools and dependency relationships. We are looking for a system of more objective selection and not a new selection procedure. The executives shall be selected and not elected. Through your efforts to describe the molecules for scientific training, administrative and teaching service, you have seen a number of errors, which you have also corrected, with the suggestions of the bodies and parties. But you blindly and completely wrongly tried to describe the inclusive teaching service. However, with educational obligations, compulsory permits for post-training and training, with the term of office of teachers in the place of the director of education, it proves, in practice, that the question of the political axiety applied to the selection of regional managers also has a follow-up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call on you, even at this hour, to accept the fair request from the educational community about the teaching service of training directors, who, as compared to the agencies' responsible, clearly have nothing to do with them. Therefore, training directors cannot be excluded from this. Really, Minister, which organizations do you mean and who are you responsible for? Education is not an area of conflict. It is a conflict, but it is not a co-operation. Today we have tabled an amendment adding to Article 17 concerning the selection of these directors, namely additions to the teaching service of training directors. All right, let's take it. Do not insist on the abolition of objectivity and dignity. Minister, there is no use for sterile confrontation and depreciation of the institutions. Show the political culture that the educational community needs today. With this bill you have joined a lot of people toward you. If you keep going that way, you'll put the rest of them across the street. It's no use! We need objectivity, openness, clean solutions. We need clarity everywhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u256	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I would like to make a proposal here. You say: 'We will restore injustices'. I have no reason to believe it. So I suggest that you bring in a draft law to which the cuts in the single teachers who have retired over the last three years will be reimbursed, the ones that have been cut down by over 50%. I therefore propose that these cuts should be repaid with bonds from the Greek public for ten years and, of course, that they should be included in this draft law and that those teachers who are going to retire today. It is money that was retained to teachers and which they had calculated for their loans, for their everyday lives, for children's studies. So let the Greek teacher and teacher be given the necessary right to him. We owe him that, and that is what society owes him for his offer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Re-establish the sectors and specificities of PSCs and PDSs repealed by Law 4186/2013. It is good, but in order for this re-establishment of social and development orientation to prove that valuable knowledge is actually produced, it is necessary that the sectors and specialities be linked to the local needs and markets of each region. In this way, the monitoring of PSAs and PSAs will gain meaning and value and absorption from local markets. Ladies and gentlemen, education is a pillar of development for every progressive country. However, we need institutional immunity, a cross-party committee with a ten-year term of office, which will implement a stable educational policy that is modern and harmonized in European policy. Its members should come from all democratic political places and the whole range of educational activity: specialists, studyers of educational systems, academics, teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u258	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u259	I shall conclude, Mr President. To stop the slap-walk in education. They're tired of students, teachers, parents. Changes in education must be voted on to change by a two-thirds majority of the House. Any changes should be proposed through consultation. Only in this way will we be able to give hope and perspective in the field of education. Evaluation and merits should be the basis of education. The bet's all of us. We deserve a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u261	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u262	I will give you the floor, Minister, for a moment. Twenty-seven parliamentary amendments have been tabled. Most - I read them now - are self-evident and reasonable. I will give you the floor on condition that you make more acceptances, because you have accepted only three. Only if you're accepting more, I'll give you the floor. I read them one by one and they are excellent, self-evident and reasonable and they have done a great job by the MPs. At least give encouragement to those who have now taken initiatives - especially to young people - and have contributed very positively to your bill. The Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u263	I am pleased, Mr President, to admire you for having really decided that most of them are absolutely right. Most of what we did not accept - because we had to say 'yes' or 'no' - we said we needed more treatment. First of all, we are positive and refer them to the plan, which we will bring these days. In some we accept some parts, but there are some, but they cannot be done now. However, I would like to say that we are accepting two more amendments. The first is Amendment No 155/38 on the re-establishment of the 6th PCA. It's about too many kids. This PSA has afternoon hours. Its reopening is necessary because it gives hundreds of children and workers access. That's why it works this afternoon. The second amendment is number 142/27, according to which, for the current academic year - in 2015 - the graduate students of the IOIs and IOIs have the opportunity to be examined in all courses, which did not pass in previous semesters.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u264	Good, Minister. Until the end of the day you will be accepting other parliamentary amendments. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Athanasios Petrakos, has the floor. Here comes Mr. Christos Pappas from Golden Dawn. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. Elisabeth Skoufa, Konstantinos Tasulas, Ioannis Ammanatidis, Niki Kerameos, Meropi Jufis, another colleague - who will now tell me - and two - three parliamentary representatives. Our aim is 20 a.m. the time to vote on the roll-call vote. Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will not deal with the substance of yesterday's infamous event, which was done by the lovers of neoliberalism and regression in education, because the noble and excellent colleague, Mr Cremastinos, in his own way, gave an answer: that the university teachers who are organizing an event and who have the title 'No Ball in Education', making a genius with the name of the Minister of Education, are not worthy of our confrontation. We'll talk about these when the time comes. However, it will allow me, the Minister and my fellow Members, because I had great luck and great misfortune, at the same time, to be the last person to whom a university teacher who left early on February 27, Stavros Konstantakopoulos, was sent a few minutes before he died the last mail to me. I want, Minister, to read a few passages from this last mail: "The period of the memorial years was a period of dark years for Greek society and also for the Greek university in particular. A systematic and complete attack plunged the Greek university into an unprecedented material and spiritual decline. The dismantling of the administrative structures of the institutions through the availability, redundancies, the economic strangulation of the budgets, the reductions in wages to the neutralization of universities, the dismantling of student care, the abolition of any resource that would maintain the research in contact with technological and scientific leadership and social and productive needs have led to university education in our country to a significant and irreparable retreat.". Below he wrote Stavros Konstantakopoulos: "The days that we live..." - he meant after January 25th - "They are days of hope, fermented with doubt. The adoption by the new government of two demands, which highlighted the movement of universities, the abolition of the institutions' councils and the return of the administrative resources available to them, is already a prospect.' Also, he wrote, Minister, "The battle for a better university, worthy of the hopes and demands of our society, will be difficult and will depend on the general course of the events of the country. Universities must breathe again, be detached from the suffocating embrace of the authoritarian laws of Diamantopoulou - Arvanitopoulos. An entire complex of laws, behaviours of individuals and guilds, which is oppressing the universities today, has been built at the Greek University and will give a hard fight to defend completely self-interest. The return of democracy is the only answer to that. Repeal of the laws of Diamantopoulou - Arvanitopoulos. Direct abolition of institution councils, most arbitrariness and enforcement mechanism. Free elections in universities, involving the entire university community. Restoration of university asylum. A new institutional framework for universities. Full transfer of basic responsibilities to the collective bodies and their renewal with effective participation of all members. It is also necessary to take immediate measures to relieve universities.' And, he concluded: "The universities, the ATEI, the research centres must contribute to the country's productive reconstruction by strengthening the confidence of our people, which they have deliberately collapsed. They must play their part, in a pioneering analysis of modern social problems and building solutions, beyond the triumphant and stereotypes. They also have to play their part in a great educational revolution, which will unleash knowledge from the narrow "using" dimension, turning it into a path of personal and social search and emancipation. This is the response of SYRIZA's people - a man who left us early - to how we see the university in five minutes and less. But let's move on to the bill, for which weep and plunge fall. What is the bill, ladies and gentlemen, which destroys everything? The previous colleague said: "In a hundred days, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you did not bring back all the unemployed that we created in a thousand eight hundred twenty-five days with the Memorandum Policies that we have implemented. You didn't give a job in a hundred days. You did not build what neoliberalism destroyed in ten thousand days." That's to catch things from 1990 onwards. But let's leave these and go to the bill. Minister, why are they arguing, so I can understand? What does the bill say? Firstly, the two and a half thousand teachers who fired are returning - of course, they are the prestigious ones who are after them - to get the children to the public PSA and not to the private. Of course, some do not disagree on that, but there is also a 'but' here. Society can hear us. This is the first category of issues raised by the bill. Seriously, if you don't make any opposition to the opposition, can you disagree with that? Second, what does the bill bring? Change to the examination system. What have you guys done? The students had the opportunity of a very limited number of university departments. What's the bill doing? Applicants will have more choice after being released from the narrow limits of the scientific field. In other words, it gives candidates the opportunity, with the addition of a fifth "baller" lesson - let me say so - to have access to a second scientific field by expanding their choices. Is that against children, against education, against education? Thirdly, it abolishes the theme bank. That's - he says - decaying crime. Why? It abolishes the subject table, as our rapporteur, Mr Dimitris Baxvanakis, said, as compulsory. And we hear the news that with the issue bank Mr. Dimitris Baxvanakis, or I or any other teacher at school, only with the subject bank, was obliged to teach the matter. Well, don't you know that there's a curriculum, and they're forced by teachers to teach the curriculum? You don't know that? Before the theme bank, wasn't material taught in schools? Are you kidding us? Wasn't every teacher obliged to finish this matter? Secondly, what was the theme bank? The topic bank, I told you last time, was the lashing machine to get kids out of school. And he had another target, to say that, because you're doing what you're forgetting. He was aiming for the dual system in education. In other words, 15-year-old and 17-year-old apprentices, through mobility within the European Union, as you had contacted Mr Fuchelle, would go to Germany. Do you remember that? I do not have time to analyse it and I will take the time of dentistry, Mr President. Third, what's the bill doing? It separates experimental from standards. He says it's more the experimental, other than the model. The model has specific aims, whether or not one agrees or disagrees, and the experimental has others. Is that unscientific? And it's wrong? So, an experimental model is a very serious scientific approach, huh? Mercy, ladies and gentlemen! The next thing the bill brings is the choice of executives in education. What's he doing? He drives out the interview through which there were party training directors and school directors everywhere except where they didn't. Only in some regional schools, which no director went, were no left-wing managers. To be serious right now and not to make fun of each other. Like we don't know what was going on in education. As if we were born on Mars. And it says the bill that teachers will be able to give their opinion to this figure. I, Minister, would tell you that you have to make an improvement in that. Not to be competitive, that is, someone is voting for Mr Baxvanakis and someone is voting for Mr Petrakos. To be able to judge Mr Baxvanakis and judge Mr. Petrakos. I think that you can see this with a ministerial decision, to make it possible and more complex and think about it by colleagues in the process. What else does this bill do, for which the big debate is taking place? The famous excellence. You will allow me to refer to this because there is a conscious misinformation here that SYRIZA - I said it last time - is, on the contrary, the students striving to be good, to be very good, to be excellent, to gain all knowledge. This is the greatest distortion that has been done. Why do you know for whom we are not? We are not in favour of an educational system that strengthens the class filters that exist in society and aims to strengthen the ideology that there are few, illuminated, intended for big things and the rest, many, intended for manual work, a model of elastic worker, without rights and requirements. Why do you know where this idea leads, ladies and gentlemen? It leads to perceptions - to see who goes in front of society and who takes it back - of the 18th century, where there was the idea that the poor are poor because they are stupid. That was the concept of the feudal age. Let me close, as I said about feudalism, with the words again of an article, the late Stavros Konstantakopoulos. "In feudal times it was easy to distinguish the few of the many. The few had been born, as had many. People were born barons, marques, counts, and others were born slaves and died just as they were born, aristocrats or the people. Everything was clean, hideous but clean. Then came the bourgeois revolution with liberal ideas and practically denied the privilege of birth. They proclaimed that everyone would be allowed to have a destiny other than the one that was born. Only, since such words have shattered the old world and taken the communion's sunshine into their hands, after some time they have lost their revolutionary momentum and became few in turn. So they had to deal with the many and legalize their supremacy toward them. And then at the place of birth and the godly expelled authority of the aristocrats, they put the value and excellence. Read what he writes at the end of the 19th century, the founder of an educational institution, from which he even graduates today the great majority of French elite, Emil Bootmy. "The privileges have died and no one can stop this process of birth. The upper classes, however, as they call themselves, are obliged to recognise the majority rights. They will, however, be able to maintain their political sovereignty if they invoke the right of the most capable.”
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u266	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u267	"Behind the prepared strife of privileges and tradition, the torrent of democracy must meet a second line of defense, built of bulbs and useful abilities, from superior qualities that no one can question their prestige." So those who are shouting at excellence today as the fifth of their opinion suggest that they themselves are excellent people who go to private schools, and we other non-important and non-important. This is the basic and fundamental difference.’ Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Christos Pappas. This is followed by colleagues and other speakers. Bug, Tasoulas, Amanatidis, Kerameo, Jufi. There are two parliamentary representatives left, which I do not see in the Chamber. There remains our aim of launching a roll-call vote at 20.00. I'm gonna give the speakers a chance of a few minutes of denial. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, starting my speech to stand on something that has been heard here today. A testament, a confession on behalf of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Party, concerning the history of our admission to the European Union, at the time of the EEC, in 1979. Kyriakos Mitsotakis said for word - and his testimony is important to the historians of the modern history of the country - obviously a great truth is at the edge of his speech. He said that an illuminated leader - meaning Karamanlis, uncle, and now also the "lighted" and the "leader" - needs a lot of discussion - against the will of the people, made a political negotiation and put our country into the EEC. Early confession, cynical confession on behalf of the Representative of the New Democracy Party, which shows how they in the New Democracy perceive and account for the opinion of the people, how they see and see democracy, civilisation and popular sovereignty. In order to ease the atmosphere a little, Mr President, and to get rid of it, I would like to express some wishes and gifts. And I say this so that some of my words are not taken and sad and bitter. I shall therefore express from my heart my passers and my wishes for rapid recovery to Mr Antonis Samaras who fell and broken his elbow. All right, we said, you in the New Democracy have been in a constant fall, a political fall. It's known to everyone. But we didn't say you were going down and kicking your face. I will start my speech with an event about the news and it has an absolute connection with the new customs that the Left of SYRIZA and ANEL, who are no more customs than the customs that characterized the previous governments, are saying. A few hours ago, the Secretary General of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos made statements to journalists in the Perstylion of the Parliament on current political developments. He said in particular: Golden Dawn states its unequivocal opposition to any agreement that the government intends to sign and which will be a new memorandum governed by English law and the assignment of national sovereignty and which will also be accompanied by a new tax storm that will further exhaust the Greek people. We call on the government to consult the people in such a case and to make the decision on the basis of their opinion. In essence, Mr Michaliokos once again tabled our clear opposition to every kind of memorandum, our clear opposition to the assignment of national sovereignty. He challenged the government to ask the people for their opinion, i.e. to hold a referendum. From this small, but comprehensive statement, the public television, the new ERT, that is, an ERT which reminds the conurbations of December 1944, the years of HAM, presented in the news report of the nineteen words, five whole seconds, the time, that is, for ERT leaders, that is, the officials of the Press Department, for the leader of the country's third political force. This is democracy, pluralism, publicity, the new customs you are evangelizing! Congratulations, then, to the kindly ERTs! Their salary is worth it! I shall then refer to an issue, which is not at all relevant to the bill that we are discussing today. I am referring to the disgrace that occurred before the sacred monument of the unknown soldier in Syntagma Square. At the most central point of the country's capital, the first chassos festival took place with the permission of the authorities. It is well known that the immunity of liberalism, in which capitalism prevails, also rises to drugs and dismantlement in all forms, much more, and in a country where the memoirs are washing up, in a country where drugs are swept away. Drugs are inexorable, as is gambling, as is prostitution, and crime. In breach of the Constitution, with the permission of the authorities, with the permission of the municipality, the police, etc., you have legalized de facto drugs with the festival in question, which was used by people who used soft drugs - as they are called - narcotics, i.e. Indian cannabis, but which are the gateway to entry, the gateway to addict our young people to so-called cruel and fatal drugs. Statistics show that 90% to 95% of the users of heavy, fatal drugs were previously users of so-called soft drugs. So with this - unacceptable to the Golden Dawn - it is clear that the world leaders, the strong centres of Europe, the Dutch, the Germans and the other decades, want the Greeks and high, so that they can subordinate them to their memorials. Improvedly, they advertise both themselves and the media parrots, the so-called economic benefit to be enjoyed by the cultivation of Indian cannabis. This, ladies and gentlemen, will not be allowed to happen. Greece is not Albania, Athens is not Lazarati. Like the spiritual health of youths, its physical and mental health are not placed at the negotiating table. We do not haggle the future of our country, the Greek youth for the dirty money of some names and anonymous ones. The above, ladies and gentlemen, are well combined with the recent statements by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who said categorically in his speech yesterday, at a radio station, the following: Some time ago, on the Great Friday, the Holy Light came with honor - again - head of state. In other words, two Heads of State visited SYRIZA Greece and is the Holy Fos and the relics of Agia Varvara. All right, gentlemen of the Left, we know that you have a problem, we respect your views on God, you can freely declare atheists, you can not baptise your children, but you have no right, undemocratic, unconstitutional and ultimately unwillingly impose your views on the entire Greek people. You cannot mock and anger those who declare Greek and Orthodox. 98%, the vast majority of the Greeks, are, declare and want to remain Christian Orthodox. So you cannot show any sensitivity to the preferences, the specificities and views of a lousy minority - in my opinion - who wants to impose its views on the whole people, on the majority. So you cannot impose on the vast majority, on the healthy part of the Greek people, the views, defending the right of the few against the rights of the many. So dare, if you like, to make a referendum on the subject and on the use of drugs and the building of mosques in Athens, which will not be the only one, but will follow, on the basis of a plan, the reunification of jams in all the Greek cities. It keeps, as you know, Thessaloniki. So dare, if you want, to make a referendum to see whether Athenian or Thessalonikoi wants the parties and the chimneys in his cities, if he wants mosques in his town, if he wants drugs in his city. You don't dare, you don't do it, because you're just as ethnicist as the previous ones. That is why you are completely matched by the lyrics from the poem of Palama, who is unfortunately not taught in our schools, not now with the Left but also before the Right. What new student knows Palama? What new student knows Solomon? What new student knows George Athana, Sicilyan, War and so many other lighthouses and drivers, I would say, giants, of Greek literature? You have made sure that our children are watered by poison and that they know and learn only about some contributory turbulences, only for some who write indiscriminate texts, writing indiscriminate poems. You have been involved all these years, left and right, in the barricade and in the demolition of our education. So the lyrics that I say fit you, says Palamas, and I read the first turn from his poem "Wolves", a poem near a hundred years ago, written: "Bossians, the wolves! The wolves! To guns, Crystals! Far from it, and the vicious, squirrels and mosquitos and bolsheviks, for the sake of empty or desolate works of valve.’ As far as the amendment is concerned - and I shall end, Mr President - concerning the extension and facilitation of the building of the mosque in the Botanic, we said the day before yesterday that Samaras and Venizelos gave the mosque, Tsipras simply increased the plot. And we say that, to remind who gave the mosque, who opened the way to the Islamization of our country. They are no more than the gentlemen and ladies of the New Democracy, so that the faithful, patriots and folk fighters are not pretended in here. They have examined - as we speak of a bill on education - and they have been steadfast, and when they have been summoned in this Chamber called the'mortem' of the memorandum' by a Member of the government, they have protested strongly and have asked for the expression to be erased from the Minutes. Deleting, ladies and gentlemen, the word from the Minutes can serve your embossed compulsion, but it cannot erase the truth. And the truth is that the neoliberals of the bourgeois Right remain until the marrow of bones merckles, memorials, anti-grassers. Now, if some go out and start and say these muds about the people's right, all they will cause the Greek people is laughter and indulgence. You have tried, in an unjust and immoral way, to hit us politically. You have used mechanisms, services, snuffs of secret services, police snuffs, criminals, to whom you had influence and to whom you are striving to continue to have influence, not only on the matter of Golden Dawn, but also on the cover of your own great scandals. You didn't do anything. At least five hundred and fifty thousand Greeks and Greeks stand on our side. But we are not the same as you and we will not use the same ways as you. We, all we can promise, not to you, but to the tank - although the term 'basket' is not a pedigree, when we talk about the people - of the voters you are addressing and we are addressing you, is that we will see that you remain in the place where you are now, where you are worthy of what you and your PASOK colleagues have done forty years now, for the crimes you have committed in our country. This position, therefore, appeared in the elections last January, now also in all polls, and it is not the position of political aberration, endowments and mocking of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. The President-in-Office of the New Democracy, we all sincerely wish for rapid recovery. Mrs Elizabeth Skoufa, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I come from Central Macedonia and specifically from Pieria. In Central Macedonia, then, we have a very characteristic word that characterises chaos, spiritual confusion. It is the word 'turbuki', commonly arguably arguably arguably. This is how I would describe everything that has been said once more about 'Grexit','mexit', 'fexit', a fifth evaluation, a third memorandum, a left-hand parentheses, 'when we come to power again, you will see, the values will shine again', etc. And, of course, the'shass festival'. So, Turlubuki! Allow me another reference to the philosophical schools and specifically the Faculty of Philosophy in Rethymno Crete, from which I graduated. The teachers told us Plato was accusing the wise men of his time, because what did they do? "The irreversible reason for shepherding," which means that a reason and some arguments that were not reasonable, which were empty content, vague moral values, etc., with their rhetorical art and trickery made them fantasize in the crowd as a plausible and plausible one. This is how I would describe the 'enterprise' used by Mr Fortsakis, that these urgent measures are not accepted by the majority. And I wonder: The majority is a gathering of two thousand representatives in the field of education, which presides the former ministers of the Memorandum of Understanding and various other good and vocal names of the New Democracy area and in which the slogan 'one is the enemy, SYRIZA' is heard? However, to be honest, I am very pleased that we are finally seeing the New Democracy holding a protest gathering and we look forward to seeing the moment you are going to organise a protest show, out on the street, with a banner on the torch, writing New Democracy, etc. Except at these gatherings SYRIZA and ANEL will not send the MATs to rot you on the ground. Third. I note very often the abstention of the former coup d'état, and unfortunately also from the Potami, for all kinds of elections. Before 25 January PASOK and the New Democracy intimidated the Greek people that if we had elections, it would be the destruction and ending of the world. Now we have the threat that if the teachers choose who they want to be their boss, the school's completion will come again. Why, gentlemen, are you so afraid of democratic processes? Fourth. As an educator, I wonder why, now and again, you want to close the excellent students in special schools. Do you want to make kids in the tube? Why separate them from the rest of their classmates? Are co-concerned and interacting with their other schoolmates in regular schools, are the perfect ones even more excellent? These urgent measures, in my opinion, Mr Ministers, should be more courageous instead of 'Emergency measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education', to take the title 'Democratisation measures' of these levels of education. Because democratisation is just a process that makes education open, universal, public, accessible to all and without economic, social and class blockades. To this end, we must all be shocked, not, of course, to view the education and training as the case of the few and elites, the economic and political elites, who simply want to reproduce themselves and their offspring, withholding for the children of the majority of the popular classes of apprenticeships and working conditions and enjoyable gallery. This bill in its first chapter introduces two important innovations. The first concerns the possibility of extending the choices of the candidate higher education schools. And that is because, those who have been or are still professors, teachers and parents, we understand that judging the future of our children from certain specific days of an examination period, a four-day, five-day period, from some unique moments of stress and stress, is not the most pedagogical measure. I would remind you that under the previous law, those students who failed and did not collect the required score to introduce them into some school of their choice had to spend another year of preparation, with care, with stress, with economic bleeding of their parents and mental emotional deterioration of candidates themselves. Let me add, of course, that these urgent measures, as Minister Kourakis pointed out, are of a transitional nature and we look forward to the establishment of the Single High School of theory and Act, which will of course give high school the character it suits, as an independent educational grade and free from the university. Incidentally, the introduction to the university and the endless training hours required - and I say this, having personally taught in schools - is a pan-European, if not global, originality. Chapter I of this bill comes to restore a horrendous social injustice, an injustice that was chosen, suddenly, erecting students of public schools and specific groups of working teachers, one of the many "institutional injustices" - where we were artificially accustomed to the previous conflict, ignoring the "shock and awe" operation or otherwise a doctrine of the Memorandum shock. No explanation was given to the Greek people why these specialities were abolished, leaving half the street tens of thousands of students, sending them to the gallery of private education, sending tens of thousands of teachers to the precarious precariousness of availability. This legislation - Territorialism was cut and stitched just to the memorial balance, with full and good cooperation of the local and European corpses of the lame neoliberalism, a neoliberalism, which in practice loves freedom, a freedom which it naturally only reserved to the few and the chosen ones, while for the majority of citizens it reserved the slave labour, low-wage slavery, unemployment, a total lack of medical care. So this bill, in conjunction with the law that SYRIZA and ANEL government orders last week voted in favour - and I refer to the law of Minister Katrugalos - is doing at least, in relation to the morally highest debt we have to Greek society, a society that has been diagnosed over the years, frustrated, blamed, swirled on the sidewalk of helplessness and unemployment, hardship, deprivation of opinion and again unemployment. On the contrary, the present Government is the full working restoration of all Greeks and Greeks, all the inhabitants of the territory, so that the country can finally rejoice in the way it should, in a Europe that suits it, in a globe on which ideals will rejoice after centuries of ages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEVERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-nine students and students and three teachers attending from the 1st High School of Mandra Attica. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Tsoulus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u273	"Nice summer day, I return to the charming streets of Eton, I enter the cosmopolitan school, where he studies from primary school to high school, the aristocracy of England. I go up old sarcastic stairs, I go into the halls, I take a look at the cells where the indoor students live, I pass far, dark corridors, as if I were in a monastery. And the cheerleaders here are necessarily wearing a strawberry primary school and a thin hat. That's their rasso. In Eaton, the air is clay from souls. Such a condensation of oath and nostalgia you feel by breathing this air in Eton. Nearly all the leaders of the English nation have been here in these walls and greens, their childhood and adolescents, and these closed courtyards and the scrolling old staircases and this jasmine, blossoming in the glorious doors, would be their great holy nostalgia. Leaving out of this sacred grove, I felt like he embroidered with his air forever and one of my own longings. To come day to have our race as strict and happy as a school of leaders. The finest young people in Great Britain are coming here. When they finish high school, they stay two to three years to gain harmony, physical, spiritual, mental nudity. Nothing else. Then, if they want, they continue special studies, studying in universities, in legal schools, in polytechnics. Oxford and Cambridge don't get a license. They're getting a degree in human beings. In a holiday home in the summer I had met the wise, historic, and exquisite man Fisher. As Minister of Education, at Lloyd George, he had passed the law that facilitated the chosen young people of the people to enter for free and study in the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge. He was proud of this law and expected rich fruit. These poor young people, they told me, thus taking the highest English education, are destined to rule later, along with the aristocratics and the bourgeois, the British Empire." Who is he, who carved and wrote in '41 in his book 'Englia' to have such a school of leaders? Nikos Kazantzakis. Obviously, Nikos Kazantzakis will have to wait long for the fulfillment of this longing, because neither we nor you obviously attach similar importance to education. Education from post-militarisation is a field of demagogy. You are the last act of this drama, which we did, only at the end of our term of office and at difficult times we have decided to create some odours, some vultures of excellence, some vultures of all this demagogy, convenience, populism, the prevalence of trade unionism, and we have made a law which we have voted with a wonderful majority. You, who are the last act of the post-Government drama, worthy followers of our own athletics, but to the extent that we have been able to complete what we have not been able to do. Complete the degradation of education, the deposit of convenience, the prevalence of trade unionism. And you're just doing it because you're genuine post-multiple children. You are the ones who think that only themselves represent people, as if the speaker does not represent people, with two hands, two feet, two ears. People have also voted for us and let me think that I am entitled to the same thing as you are, that I am opposed to you. Except I don't admit to being such an asshole. Honestly, I can't believe you're such an idiot, being so fond of your ears. Talk about many, because you obviously know that they are politically interested and ignore the fact that education is not a point of view of democracy, in the sense of the majority, but is an upside, which, under the Constitution, prepares you for life, which is not easy. It gives you moral, spiritual, physical discipline, national and religious discipline, as the Constitution says, still applies and to which we have all sworn either by religious oath or by the word of our honor. I wonder to you how, at this time when the country is struggling for goodness, for discriminating and rewarding discrimination, you are making such a dramatic and reactionary return in seasons that have their starting point in 1981. I am afraid the programme of the PASOK published in the 'EXPORTUATION' in August '81 says exactly the same thing as you, the same as the Prime Minister said, namely that education is the foundation of great change, that we will abolish the tone, make spelling simpler. For God's sake, don't get tired of children, don't get displeased. So, all this educational metaphorism, all this educational populism took such a momentum and a foretaste, which apparently led young people to the care centres, and no one dared to reverse this course, only in the last two years, in the midst of the country's economic hardship, through the country's magnificence, we were able to create some pockets of correct response to the educational needs of the country by strengthening and restoring school standards, strengthening the values of education. All of this, like the devil who fears the hammer, you reject it and reinstate it in the former condition. That's not the point. It is not what will push Greece forward and make it competitive. Because the lady who spoke earlier said that our purpose is another Europe, another world. Yes, but Europe, the other, there is nothing but your eyes, and the other world is jealous of and claiming Europe's practices, which has nothing to do with either populism or convenience. Today, in a large-scale French magazine, "MarIANNE", an article entitled "The slaughter of the innocent" is published to judge French President Holland, who, among other things, in his educational reform is abolished by the great schools, the grandes écoles - those that make the leaders of France - the so-called dead languages, the ancient Greek and Latin. And all the spiritual elite of France and all the serious people are concerned about this deterioration in education, which is 'the slaughter of the innocent'. "Slaughter of the innocent" recommends the abolition of school standards, the abolition of evaluation, the reintroduction of the unprotected as asylum, allegedly, at universities and the captivity of the rector authorities in the student unions. A sample of this return to populism and demagogy and convenience is the fate of the present government at the old Zoastic School of Ioannina. It was completely abolished - initially - while it has been the first public school since 1833, which has been operating with the donation of the Zosimites brothers and especially the legacy of Nikolaos Zosimas. Today, there is a weak consolation on the part of the government against this crime. It returns only to the High School of Life, without resuscitating high school, so the solution is lacking. I call on you, Minister, to bring back the School's high school and high school, as requested by the Municipality of Ioannites, the Association of Alumni of Life and the Teachers' Association, with their justified performances, which I will be allowed to present in the minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Tasoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are at a difficult time for the country, for many reasons, which I would sum up in the fact that it did not bring the 'three-start' to the crisis, but the crisis brought the Memorandum. And in this crisis, the Left is equal, not to say greater, participation than everyone has. Because it is a crisis which has led the country to bankruptcy, precisely because of populism, benefits and incentives for benefits. To remember Palama too, I'll tell you that his lyric, which speaks of decades of decline, is impressive. "And it was times when the City" - Constantinople - "whore in repentance stayed and her hands tied up, held them and carted them, a butcher... and hired the Turk to take her." With this bill you are attacking the appearance of a country that has its hands tied up. You take the hands of the country, against the future, against competition, against reality. A country that binds its own hands against competition and the international environment will not come out of the crisis. But if you want a country with its hands tied up to wretch her butcher, some people don't want her that way and that's us. And we're neither infamous nor memorials nor hollows. We are some who have seen our mistakes and tried, without plundering, to correct them. And we'll solve the hands of the country, from the bonding, which with that bill you're causing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. If I had written a speaker, I would have answered you with regard to the use of what you said about Kazantzakis, when he described the vicious class and social conditions of the Victorian and post-Victorian England. I don't have the right. Because you have wronged what the great Kazantzakis said about these issues. Mr Amanatidis has the floor now. Next, Mrs. Kerameos, Mrs. Jufi is next, and we're done with Mr. Kikilia and the seconds from two minutes of those of the speakers and rapporteurs who want to speak. Then it will be followed, if the Minister does not want or else the ministerial chairs to take the floor, the roll-call vote. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how to characterise the energy of those who have bound the country hand in hand through an English law and a memorandum that is subject to English law and which has promised the future of this country. What does it call what he dares to say that we are the ones that bind education? This is in your judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, for many hours I have been following the effort of the speakers who have found a common denominator this morning. The common denominator was to keep the deep counter-reformation that they have implemented, not only in the last years, but all the previous thirty years. The common denominator is selling and not defending the universal public right to free education. I would like to refer to specific references. That is the common point of all of this. Because, as long as they were building five and ten standard schools, both in the House voted for measures, which were all downgrading the right and social good of education for all students. The more they said they were doing another school, the more they were cut off from education, the more they were cutting off the compensatory education institutions, the more they were cutting off the parallel classes, the more they were cutting the aided education, the more they were cutting off the budget of the school committees for schools, the more they were cutting off the money for heating, the more they were cutting off the training of teachers, the more they were cutting off the assignments, the more they merged schools without criteria, only with economic criteria, what the troika told them, the more they were kicking off students from vocational education to send them to training. And they pointed out in front that we made standards. Neither you nor the government were voted on to only make standards. Under the Constitution, the government has an obligation to defend the universal public right to education for all pupils. And I'd say the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. The fig sheet has been swallowed. There is no excuse for this policy. And of course, Mr Loverdos, we will continue to say'repealed' and'repealed', because you have just built a Memorandum of Understanding, where education breaks down. We have an obligation to restore it, of course, through the abolition of your memorial laws. You accuse us that we are not abolishing the memorandum and when we say we abolish it and bring provisions for healing in the House of Multi-trained Education, then you tell us that we are only saying'repealed, abolished'. You should get used to the positive interventions that this government is doing for education. I heard the speeches and Mr Fortsakis and Mrs Bakoyannis. Basically, they say that for the mess we have in education, no one else is to blame. It's the trade unions' fault. It's left. It's not a policy that brought us to it. It is not the policy of sub-financing. It is not the policy of authoritarianism that, in the euphemistic title - which is not in fact the case - 'assessment' has tried to force their policy into schools, strangling education freedom. It's not their fault. It's the trade unions' fault. It's left. However, it is not our roots to blame, and God doesn't hate us either. It is the specific policy condemned by the Greek people on 25 January by the SYRIZA government. And we have this obligation: heal the wounds. We have heard that "excellence is the college of the poor". We have also heard of'multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-mortem Mrs. Buddhism said that. SYRIZA was elected with a clean education program, which addressed all schools, all teachers, all over the community and society. On the basis of this programme we have voted on and that is what we are going to go through. But the essence of all the arguments is what Mr Fortsakis said. I'll say it and stop with the comments. He says: "Cut the standards and so you do not let the student claim and win through the exams an excellent educational environment". Alas, if the state's obligation runs out to do ten schools with a good educational environment, so that the student can go with an examination there too. We are completely opposed. You're right. We have another worthy system. We want education and good educational environments for all students, and our schools want to work like standards all. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'Grexit' in education and closed schools, implemented by the previous governments, is the result of this very policy. But I would like to say to you: Dialogue, dialogue, dialogue and dialogue. We are being blamed, not for dialogue, and Mr Mitsotakis for merit. With what dialogue did Mr Mitsotakis and what merits he made available to teachers who were postgraduate? In fact, humiliatingly, while those who had a doctorate were excluded, the next day the troika imposed them and came Mr. Mitsotakis - here he sat - and a hundred people from technical education who had doctorally reinstated them, while he had excluded them. Is it true or is it a lie? So what do he speaks of when he says he respects the worthy? Isn't he worthy of a doctorate? Isn't he worth two degrees? How did you treat him? And you finally have to decide. Should these sectors be removed or not? Before I heard Mr Fortsakis, he said 'yes, they should be lifted'. I heard Mrs Bakoyannis and she was completely opposite. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the mood to have a debate. These measures were urgent. But I would like to tell you what purpose we will be targeting. The objective we want to serve as SYRIZA is the universality of the right to education, a public quality education system with two-year compulsory pre-school education and education and a single 12-year compulsory for all children, inclusive and non-discriminatory. In education - commodity, we oppose education - a public good, in the education of atomicism and feminism, we oppose the education of ominous values, with the aim of centralizing the individual who leads to his emancipation. On the subject table, I have referred to my position in the Committee on Culture. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate to refer a little to the role of education in short terms and to the system of selection of directors. The interview, ladies and gentlemen, how has it been implemented in our country? It's the process of measuring the objective, making teachers declare the schools, and then the interview came. Basically, determining with the tenths which school is exactly who is going to go to. It's down. What is more reasonable to judge the school club in which the candidate was the teacher? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, this assessment must not be taken into account. So the vote of one another does not exclude the other. The second is that he might be able to go to all the schools of the responsible PYTE to be able to apply. And I also have doubts as to creating the managers or anyone like a elite body or a body that will vote for the managers in education at the moment. However, at the moment I am also enough in the transitional phase, which the Ministry of Education has said and which we will have negative developments, I think will be taken into account in order to resolve them. Ladies and gentlemen, education plays a fundamental role for the individual and social well-being of society's citizens. A joint request is high-quality education for all. The role of the teacher is catalytic. An important factor is the teacher in the quality of education, directly linked to the development of children, who are the future of each country and the continuity of society. Therefore, by ensuring the professional satisfaction of teachers, levels of quality and development of education could be increased in a stable and continuous manner, while the absence of professional satisfaction leads to a professional dissatisfaction with unpleasant consequences for education as a whole. The role of school administration, which can increase the professional satisfaction of teachers, is also a catalyst. The way in which each state approaches the question of school management reflects its philosophy and ambition for this institution. The state in the manager’s face entrusted the task of organising and coordinating school activities. However, the lack of effective school autonomy, the absence of administrative training, the difficulty of their choice, made school-based managers a role mainly in organising and insisting on respect for unequal orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u276	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, I will say that and I will close. There are other things I would like to say, however, that I have to say that I think there should be a redefinition of the role of the teacher club for the head of the school unit. I think there should be a redefinition of the role of the school club and the school unit. It is necessary to do this, and perhaps it should be preceded by the choice of training auditors, so that the educational unit of innovation, central autonomy, collective responsibility, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, there is a balance and consistency between what is called for by a school manager, how he is chosen to fulfil it and how much room for autonomy he has. I will not go into what exists in the other countries of Europe, I have said my proposals on how I think the choice of directors should be made, as should the selection of training managers. Two proposals, Mr President, I would just like to make it so that the Minister can hear them. One is that when school is abolished, the manager who leaves his post should, I think, go to a vacant post as director.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u278	Minister, your neighbor has two suggestions to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u279	He's listening. It's okay. Also, Minister, I think that we should also see the request that has been made to Evros, since they are facing the same problems as Kefalonia. As far as the mosque is concerned, I think it is typical and should end with the agreement of everyone, although some people have opened the matter on the substance. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA government will succeed. Education is the essential basic lever through which we can get out of the memorandum and lead the country to development. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Mrs Kerameo has the floor now. Then Mr. Kikilias will talk and we'll hang up with Mrs. Merope Jufi. Then Mr Lambroulis will ask, as we have already said, whether they want the floor for a second second. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate my remarks on experimental schools, and this is due to the particular depreciation which this draft law reserves in an institution that has provided our country for over a hundred years of high quality public, free and innovative education. In my opinion, you are, unfortunately, projecting an in-depth educational model, which leads to equilibrium downwards, which reverses islands of creation, flexibility and diversity in public education. I am therefore talking about depreciating the institution of the model schools for three main reasons. Firstly, dismantling because of the abolition of most of the model schools and the arbitrary selection of only five schools as standards, the only criterion being their so-called history. I would like to make a few comments on this. The number of five school models for the entire Greek territory is extremely low, especially considering that at the moment there are sixty school models all over the territory. So instead of being here and discussing today how the sixty will make it two hundred or three hundred, we are discussing how we went from sixty to five high school. Secondly, Mr Ministers, I think you are due to answer why, with the exception of one, the school models you have chosen are in Attica. All the other parts of Greece have no right to standards? In Rhodes, Mytilini, Patras where there are currently standards on which grounds do you deprive students there of the opportunity to study at a standard school? Thirdly, why is history a criterion of choosing to maintain model schools? Why is history a guarantee of quality? And let us assume that it is indeed a guarantee of quality, why are other equally historic schools excluded? Why, for example, is Gennadeion excluded, founded in 1836? I am talking about depreciation of the institution because of the replacement of the examinations by the draw-up process. Introductory examinations, which are all about others because of the so - called psychological injury of students, are nothing but a common school evaluation from which only a student can gain. In any case, it is for each parent to decide whether his child will benefit from the examination procedure. However, as a government, you must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to enrol at a standard school, you must give everyone the opportunity to attend a school that strengthens social mobility. However, by establishing the draw as a way of introducing such schools you deprive all such rights. You are destroying equality of opportunity and you are finally putting against the weakest social classes, those who have so far had the right to equal opportunities. You're returning, Minister, education in the 1980s. Let me remind you how some draws were made in experimental schools at the time. It was with the so-called ‘fridge method’. I mean a normal refrigerator. The lots that the people in charge wanted to be pulled, put in the fridge before the draw to be cold enough and so distinguished by the man responsible. However, despite the systematic attempt to degrade the examinations as a way of introducing these schools, the data speak for themselves and I will only tell you two elements that demonstrate the social acceptance and success of the institution of the examinations. First clue. The number of tenderers in the last examinations was three times the number available and was 30% increased compared to 2012-2013. Second element. Following the introduction of the 2011 exams, the distinction between pilot schools increased by 600% to 700%. We were told by the Prime Minister on Friday that you were choosing the draw as a way of importing because you supposedly want to have a representative sample. However, the truth is that you are counteracting the exams, you are opposed to skill tests, as you are opposed to the evaluation of educational and school structures, because you have incriminate excellence, because you have chosen the logic of a minor effort. In any case, Mr Ministers, if you want to have a truly representative sample, then you have absolutely no reason to abolish the sixty standard schools that operate today very well. All you need to do is choose five hundred, for example from the existing 12 thousand classical schools and apply in schools any new methods, any experiments. Then you will actually have a representative sample. Thirdly, depreciation of the institution due to the process and the lack of dialogue chosen for the preparation and submission of this draft law. From the outset, the issue of the standards of experimental schools has been addressed by the Ministry with a bias and one - forgive me - idealism. Parallel conflicting announcements. One was abolished in schools, one was not abolished, one was abolished in the middle of a school year and one was abolished next year. There was also no prior consultation with the institutions. There was no public consultation on the draft law. There was no study of the current statute, however, when it comes to a statute that had been passed in Parliament by an unprecedented majority of 5/6. Finally, we went to a draft law in the form of urgent procedure, which has not even been discussed in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot all make radical changes to the educational system, without first seeing what works and what is not, without first having seen what needs to be corrected. This dialogue is being requested by the educational community, this dialogue is being requested by the two thousand citizens who were found yesterday in Maroussi in protest against this draft law. But, Mr. Minister, I'm afraid you don't want to fix it, you don't want to know from any mistakes in the past. You just want to do away with anything creative and different. All five standards, Mr Ministers, which you have today, are a mere pretext. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Today education issues may seem to be of secondary importance in relation to economic issues. But it is, in fact, extremely much more important. From our education to our students, it depends on the future of this place and the message that we must, in my opinion, pass on to the students, is that what matters to life is the effort, it is the high targets, it is the aim of becoming everyday and better. But, Mr Ministers, with this bill, you tell them that all of this does not matter and that in the end, as long as it is modest and lucky, you will find us in the face of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Mr. Vasilis Kikilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I think I'm ahead of the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u284	I found Mr. Kikilia and the last speaker, Mrs. Jufi. It's already announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u285	My colleague, if you want to get ahead of me, I have no problem. It is the custom of a Member of Parliament to close down, which is why the President did so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u286	Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, we have nothing to break up here today. It's a deep ideological issue. I would simply like to explain it to my fellow Members, because I think it is impossible to study the way in which a Minister in Parliament is recommending a bill if he does not study it. That is why I made an effort to study the Minister. Because I believe that the bills on education leave behind great problems when they are not products of political convergence, I have tried to understand from his writings, from his books, from his books, because he has been legislating against all of us, the MPs of the rest of the parties, society, teachers, teachers, etc. I am sure, therefore, that the draft law is a first attempt to establish what Mr Baltas wants in education in relation to SYRIZA's ideology. Some people call it ideoscopy. I don't want to cause it. Greek education, and especially Greek higher education, in my opinion, is directly at risk from the shock of democratic centralism. It is something that the Minister has tried to avoid, but I fear that he actually imposes on equal education, but downwards. In other words, this is a level playing field, and unlike Europe and the world, it is equal to giving children opportunities for excellence. Of course, few have known the Minister since his previous occupation as a professor of philosophy at the Polytechnic University. I suppose that's how the Prime Minister may have met him. I believe that the Minister is charming as a speaker and possibly a storm in his arguments. I don't contract. He writes for himself that he is just - I will rather agree - complex, mechanic - electrician, with a PhD in the theoretical theory of high-profile actions. He, too, stumbling says he does not have formal qualifications. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr. President, six minutes didn't you tell me? I'm not a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Kikilia, please enter out of list. That's what I found here. That's what Mr. Mitropoulos gave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u289	I can't talk in three minutes. If you want, I can go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u290	Continue your intervention and complete it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u291	You see, I have no intention of confronting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u292	No controversy! I can explain to you what is happening under the Rules of Procedure. Continue your speech, so you don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u293	Good. Minister, I believe that you hand over education to a minority - that is the reality - of a trade union, unfortunately, and of insurmountable party conservativeism. We have also done this mistake in past years. I believe that you consider that the party should be a partner and associate in the formation of the bill and education and have power in this area. Unfortunately, we are talking about minorities to which you hand over the LEIs, hopelessly micronomous, who are directly opposed to the majority. You also confess to it in your book, 2001, entitled "Contents and faces of yourself". You say that, in what has to do with your students, you want the methodic deception of the students by omission. It is precisely the same philosophical method, if any, that you have followed today the omission of the truth. You are misunderstood by saying that you are democratizing the HEIs. You know very well that in a hurry and rapid manner, with bias, fragmentation, many times and obsession, which I understand comes from your ideology, you want to return higher education in seasons - my colleagues said so - in 1980, without insulting other parties and groups. But that is a reality. I dare once again to use a phrase of your own: 'A paleological fossil'. Do you remember that? You said that, Minister, when you described how you felt left when Soviet collapsed. So, playing with words and philosophical texts, the reality is that you are demolishing and overthrowing what parties, groups, teachers, have put a lot of water into their party wine and have finally decided and introduced something that has worked in education in recent years. I repeat, once again, by taking your own texts of 1982, that, as you say, a process is introduced to education which you consider to be a socialist increase in brick production. These are your words, Minister. So with the urgent bill you hand over education to the trade unions, but the poorly understood ones now, those who now represent themselves and a small group around them, who are thirsty for power and have no real relationship with society, development and democracy. Minister, party organizations have all young people, unfortunately, within the universities. I welcome them and support them in their well-intentioned operation. But here, we're reintroducing the conflict between teachers and students. I've seen the university teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Kikilia, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u295	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Minister, I believe you are against the logic of European countries, assuming that their procedures are subject to capitalism. Indeed, you yourself have said about socialism that they are not green horses. I agree they're not green horses. They're not even red horses either. I would like to ask you, as a professor, perhaps inspired, to think for a minute because everyone else here and outside thinks that this bill is based on ideals, it is based, possibly, events of other times and decades, because the opposition first time, but also great social strata, is against this counter-reformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u297	Would you like to intervene, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u298	I would like the floor on personal grounds. A whole speech was dedicated to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u299	All right, Minister. You have the floor for only two minutes. Soon, please, why is the last speaker on the list followed by any of the rapporteurs - we have not seen yet - want a second second. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u300	Two points. The first point is that I may be a lot of things, but I'm not a bill. So what I have written in writing was not aspiring to be a bill to come to Parliament to discuss it. Mr. Kikilias dedicated his entire speech to extracts from my own books, articles, etc. I just remind him that most of what he read is in a book awarding the 2002 State Test-Christmas Award, which obviously did not aspire to be a bill in Parliament. Talking about articles of this type as arguments in another bill - because what I mentioned primarily about the bill concerns a further bill rather than the current one - it creates a problem. Let me tell you just Greek. It's like I was going up to the Step, discussing a matter of education and spending all my time on how Mr. Kikilias basketball was playing. Wouldn't you all have a problem with that? So if we want to have a real debate, it is important to have a debate on real bills and not on the authors of the bills, even though I am ready here and elsewhere to respond to specific criticism, bibliographical or anything like that. One more comment. I have not heard anything about this bill. I heard about a bill that will come - the known ones you said yesterday at the closed gym "SPROS LOUIS" - and not about this particular one, which is about how the children of time will get in the third grade, how the standards and experimental and how this content changes, such very simple and specific things, which are urgent for the year to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u301	Thank you. Mrs. Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA. The special speakers have not shown any interest in dentistry so far, only by the Potamian Parliamentary Group, which in writing calls for Mrs Antonako to be replaced by Mr Mavrotas, who will intervene for two minutes, in the context of dentistry. I would ask Mrs Jufi to have the Bureau informed who of the special speakers would like to have second thoughts so that we could move forward more quickly. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, at the end of a dense process, I hope I will not tire you. I will start by saying that this draft law, which is actually introduced under the urgency procedure, but with greater - to be honest - of the debate planned in both committees and in plenary, is a crucial bill for the healing of wounds left to the educational good. It includes, for the three levels of education, urgent arrangements with a transitional, pilot nature, since there will be more consultation in the multi-legislative draft that will follow and, of course, an extensive dialogue on the new framework law for universities, as the Ministry of Education's leadership has already made a public commitment. These arrangements have been dealt with negatively, aggressively and derogatingly, after denounced to us about "Balkan provincialism", promote the logic of minor effort or free immortality, loose education, discount of values, expropriation of excellence, enhancement of modesty, while they themselves declare faith in equality of opportunity for all, in excellence, fair play, healthy competition, merit, etc. But let us see what the reality is from the implementation of the policies of our opponents over recent years in education and, more specifically, from the implementation of the regulations that have been proclaimed and we propose that they be lifted. For economic reasons of time, I shall refer only to two issues. The first is the issue bank, the implementation of which has led to very high failure rates. In the first year 10% stayed in the same order, 23% remained re-tested with retrospective correction of scores at least four times. In the second year the first percentage reached 16%, while before its implementation it was at 4%. We therefore had an increase in the care centres - recorded at 25% -, significant financial costs for the Greek family in a time of crisis, but also the launching of stress and competition in sensitive ages, mainly because of its connection with the introduction to higher education. In addition, we had a significant increase in school leakage and channelling in the private education sector with the critical choice of the simultaneous closure of the ESDP. The children were led either to private IEKs, to unemployment or to postnatal training, i.e. to unpaid apprenticeships. Who were hurt? Mostly schoolchildren in downgraded areas, rural or labour layers, grassroots or low-income micro-attangible districts. Therefore, despite the majorities of equality of opportunity, these are targeted neoliberal measures with a class mark. But let us also see the view that the theme bank extends the students' horizons and ensures a homogeneity of the teaching material. Is that really so? Is it true that the continuous examinations where the student learns from the outside, ‘patient’, the answers to a well-known question panel - large volume of course - and without being taught? Is it guided or not to be interested in finding the right answer that corresponds to the good degree while completely indifferent to the rest of material and overall knowledge, away from the principles of Enlightenment and critical learning? Is the professor's pedagogical autonomy removed or not? And who can best strengthen the students from the one who knows them and who can use the Topic Bank as a complementary tool, in line with our proposal, to ensure the uniformity of knowledge? And I now come to the second point on which I should like to refer to the standards and experimental schools that many have spoken about. What does the bill provide for? There is a division between the two types of schools. Experimental exams are abolished and the draw-back process with which - to remind you - these schools have been working for twenty-six years, until the previous law has come together, with the production of significant intellectual capital, which today thanks to your own policies to the large majority, provides their services abroad. However, let us see more carefully what experimentally differs from the standards of schools, beyond the history of some of them. In accordance with the definition of the Triantafylides Foundation dictionary, what is it to say a standard? Standard means something that has been manufactured or organized by a method or by a system of new and innovative and which can be a model for other similar or similar structures and activities where new teaching methods are tested and where they are carried out in the teaching methods of students of teaching schools. I also historically recall that the standards have been schools of average children or even children with development difficulties - such as the "Modessori" schools - which, with their activities, became standards for other schools. The two types of school therefore do not differ in the contents of studies. They only differ in the way they are introduced, which we propose to be different so that there is a better representativeness of the sample in the experimental schools and that the positive results of their operation can be generalised to all schools in the country and to all students with the ideal of equal education for all. This cannot be attempted in schools with a population selected with very competitive introductory examinations as in standards. The projected possibility of attending schools and children with special talents without examinations has never been applied and the majority of children attending these schools, although it does not seem to be selected on the basis of their socio-economic level, is certainly selected with the existence of a high level of education in their parents. Of course, to be absolutely honest, this applies to several experimental schools, to a lesser extent. However, what differentiates them and characterizes them is the very increased success rates in the pan-Hellenic exams, as well as in private schools. As a result, they are intended to be groups of excellence in public schools. But why would the Left have a problem with that, since there they can provide children with intelligent, highly educated parents from various socio-economic strata? The reservations concern a number of issues, such as if it is right for the excellent students to move away from the neighborhood school and not to be mixed with the other children so that all together can move forward. Is it pedagogicalally right that these charismatic children should also be subjected to hard examinations - I remind you - with primary schools, at such tender pre-adolescent and teenage ages and to dry their lives and their daily lifes only geared to success in the courses? Is it also right that they carry the load of success so early, which they should constantly confirm? There are therefore many open topics to be consulted on the functioning of these schools, as well as opinions from remarkable teachers from these schools that these schools can cultivate sociality, artistic creation, but there are still no reliable studies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what do we propose? To continue historical schooling through introductory examinations, where they existed, but even for the additional reason that we respect the investment, mistaken or correct, of some children and their families in this institution. In the same spirit, the local theme was addressed in Yannina, which provides for the continuation of the operation as a model of the High School of Zosoms of Ioannina, as it has only worked for the last four years, while the previous twenty-six had acted as experimental. In addition, I should like to mention - as I think it was unanswered - that high school never worked as a model after 1963, as a six-year high school at the time, but as a high school in the neighborhood and only on 31-12-2014, an invasive provision was put in place to correct the, in the opinion of the then State Secretary for Education, of the past, because it had never worked as a model. Of course, this whole situation is being formulated as a front against SYRIZA's so-called anachronism, while the Ministry's will for a standard high school is expressed when the appropriate space is found with appropriate action. Ladies and gentlemen, the left does not believe in moderateness, but emphasises that good school is the democratic school in which students work together and no competition is cultivated. The democratic education that we dream of is aimed at everyone and everyone separately in accordance with its potential, without undermining neither the right to knowledge and education for the non-preferential and less qualified, nor the opportunity to distinguish those who can be exiled. Ladies and gentlemen, we are carefully documenting your views and movements. Only a few hours have passed since the launch of the “Education 2015” initiative entitled “No “Balta” in education”, plagiarizing with the name of the Minister, who organized people from the field of education, is supposed to be without a party hat, but known for the services offered by the previous governments, along with the official participation of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami and the remains of DMAR, in an effort to undermine not only the Minister, the plebiscite of politics and awarded by the House with the prize of excellent university teaching, but also the overall effort made by the new government. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, what frightens you and lifts up the banners of the reaction to the bill are the next legislation that will follow, in particular for higher education, and therefore the threatened loss of your overwhelming sovereignty in the universities that have been achieved through specific institutional roles?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u303	Mrs. Jufi, will you please be done? You've already spent your time by two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u304	In conclusion, behind this debate on excellence, which touches the core of the ideological and political differences, between the aristocratic idealism on the one hand and the democratic perception of education on the other hand, there is in essence the conflict between those who support the one-sided orientation of the educational system in the service of the few and those who seek to broaden it, so that it can spread the lights of education to many, so that they can 'always open their souls', in order to question and increase themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u305	Mrs Jufi concludes the list of speakers. Mr Mavrotas has the floor for a two-minute intervention, followed by Mr. Synthetakis. He also asked for a brief statement from the Minister, Mr Kourakis. Mr Mavrotta, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I will try to say things that have not been heard, because a lot has been heard in this Chamber. I will start by saying that it is a sign of the preoccupation of the legislation that in the report on impact assessments, in the second chapter, which is appropriate, and in particular in paragraph 2.2, which is the chapter on international experience usually, this is an empty one in this case, there is no indication of international experience, it is essentially a new world bill and I hope that this chapter on international experience will be completed in the next. In the selection of directors, here I would agree with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Baxvanakis, not to say that we disagree with everything - as regards modulation of the second degree in the selection of directors, as well as with Mr Fortsakis' proposal on the National School of Public Administration and how we could have managers for education from there. Because the argument about the elections of directors has been heard that "here we trust our children, do we not trust them to take off a good director?" to say that we trust them, as we trust doctors in a hospital, but do they not elect the hospital commander or the clinic manager, or as we trust the officers in their army, but they do not elect their commander. In relation to the other argument that it was heard that "you teachers at the university why do you elect your dean?", say there that the university has the self-employed, so on the basis of Article 16 of the Constitution, of which you are every word, although you have not read it diligently, inevitably you should have elections. Finally, I should like to say a few things about some of the side effects that have not been seen in connection with the abolition of legally elected councils. There is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the National Doping Combat Council, which, if it ceases to operate, will not be doping checks and that will not be good. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying a few words about democracy and excellence, because on Friday, the Deputy Minister of Labour and Professor at the Metsovio Polytechnics held a very strong attack on the River on democracy and excellence at universities. Metsovio Polytechnics is a small village and we are well acquainted with each other and with the educational work of each other and with the professional and research work, as we speak of excellence. We also know well how democracy was built in universities on the basis of what Mrs Fotou said. Brick - brick was built at the offices of disobedient teachers. However, we will have time to talk about this in the multi-brand plan that will come, which I hope we will have more time to consider, because we have no dialogue and dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to the amendments tabled by the Communist Party of Greece, none is accepted. You have not answered us and you must answer why you are not accepting the JRC's amendments. There's something about costs and there's really a matter. If you really wanted to show even a sample of diversity in relation to what you were electorally saying, for example, you could vote on the amendment to abolish the criminalisation of the students' struggles, as well as the extension of the school year to a threat to students' struggles. You could well agree to continue the operation of the Vocational Training Schools. In the middle of a tourist season, these schools will be closed and hundreds of children will be left out. There are many other things we have tabled and wonder why you have not accepted them. From there on, with regard to a number of amendments, I would like to say that we are voting on the ministerial amendments, apart from Amendment No 132 and a special 20, to which we state 'the present'. In the case of the Botanic, we have this to say: we are voting on this, but we believe that what has been heard from the Golden Dawn, the fascist organization, this criminal organisation, and also from the ANEL Members, is darkness. They really show what their intentions, their perception and their ideology are, namely those with which you are working today. They're darkening what has been said. We, despite the fact that we are not defenders of any religion, the right of the other to believe in it. Also, because things have been heard, there will be Rhodes here and the fuck. Other mosques should be made so that they do not conspire.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Synthraki, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u310	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, in relation to the Ministerial Amendment No 153, which has come late now at the end, which is Mr Baltas, which concerns the Congregation of Music, let me say that it is the fourth regulation that comes in and concerns the workers' outstandingities in the Congregation of Music. The three previous regulations were with the previous government, and you are bringing in the fourth regulation. For the last time, we will be voting'representations', as we voted in the previous ones. In any case, however, this story should be stopped. After all, if the Music Hall cannot function and it cannot fulfil its obligations towards workers, the state can take over it. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Synthraki, please, you've got to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u312	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u313	You've already exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u314	All right, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u315	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u317	Before giving the floor to the Minister, I would like to say that for some time now the Bureau has asked the special speakers to say who they want to give a second answer. They declared two colleagues and took the floor. I have announced the Minister after the two speakers who have said they want to be second-guessed and now you, Mrs. Xulidou, come in and ask for a second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u318	I'll explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u319	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, I don't want to take a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u321	Mrs. Xulidou, let me explain to this House. We're wasting time for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u322	You can't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u323	Listen. I can explain to the House and to the Minutes that, after the two speakers of the river and of the JRC, there was no one else registered or had not stated any other and I had already announced to the Minister. Mrs. Xulidou, you need the time for two minutes for denology. You have him, and the Minister agrees. Mrs. Xulidou, you have the floor for two minutes and then we go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much, Mr President. I consider it unheard of by the Communist Party of Greece to compare us with the Golden Dawn, because we have a common position on this matter. We fully justified our position, because we want it to be withdrawn. No, we are not just voting, but we are asking for this amendment to be withdrawn. It is timeless, not in accordance with this bill. It is an amendment which gives green light to the building of the mosque, which should already concern you as a Parliament and employ us as a Parliament once the work had been carried out within six months and which has already been completed a year and a year and a half already. So we need to see this agreement again, this convention if it is valid or invalid, and now we are going to give ourselves a grip on telling us darknessers, why are we talking about it under a Constitution, and we have explained it fully in plenary? I want the rapporteur to get this thing back. It doesn't suit the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthraki, I have to tell you about the amendment you are saying that student mobilisations do not work punishable - I am sorry, I did not have time to say it - that it is provided for in the multi-project regulation on this very matter. We do not, however, agree with your position on the non-repayance of interruption times. We have proposed another way, not with an extension of a school year. At this point we disagree. Also, I have to tell you about the Tourism OPs that we disagree on extending it indefinitely. The Multifibre Arrangement provides for an extension for a year, because we want apprenticeship at some point to go to the post-training phase, i.e. the IEK. That's how we put it. Now, when it comes to the debate that focused on the standards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u327	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. To conclude, the Minister must hear his opinion, the answers he might wish to give, so that we can then proceed to the vote. Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u328	Many colleagues have said that there are five standards where more should be done. To be in the neighborhoods, to be extended. I do not know if my colleagues are actually aware of what they are saying. A school that is a model - and what we keep as models, the rest are experimental and have another character - is a school with selected... [[Noise in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] If I'm bothering to stop, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u329	Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little quiet on the benches here, on the right, as I see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u330	I'm not making a fuss. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u331	I said fellow Members, no colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u332	Listening, how do I make a fuss?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u333	But then you are complaining about the time and the delay of the vote. Keep going, Mr. Kourakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u334	I say, then, that those of us who know how the standards were working are schools with selected teaching staff are schools without educational gaps, with enhanced infrastructure and equipment and, furthermore, they have a student potential which has been selected from examinations. So you understand that you are actually asking all over Greece to become these islands of enhanced apprenticeship and, as you can see, I am referring to the honourable Members in particular to the Potami - it is a matter of a different worldview. Our perception is that we cannot tolerate all other schools having teaching gaps, because we cannot possibly cover them all, but the standards cannot have any teaching gaps. And when you said - I think your rapporteur said so - in the neighborhoods, if there is one standard, you can understand that in this neighborhood - and even they have been tested - a good potential will go to these schools to become even better students and the rest of the students who are in the other schools understand that they will have education, in your own understanding, less. What do we say? We say that schools are experimental because they have been using experimental methods to spread to all schools, so they must have a random population sample, but we must recognise something that the sociology of education has said since the 1950s. That when such procedures are in place, children from poor folk are involved much less in the end, i.e. they achieve much less. And why do they achieve less? For two substantive reasons: Firstly, because the family environment of poor social strata gives much less stimulus at all levels to these children, so they come with fewer supplies and, secondly, because they do not have the opportunity to support themselves with care centres and other means to compete with the rest of the school population. So by definition we're talking about a scaffolding - please forgive for the word - in order to continue their studies. We are talking, that is, if we are in favour of a school that will give all children a chance, and, in our own view, we must move on to lower social priority areas, to neighbourhoods where the children have little qualifications, which means more teachers, more encouragement, so as to alleviate social differences. That's our difference. In fact, in conclusion, I would say that those who have commanded the Ministry of Education, who have taken down in four years the percentage of GDP allocated to education from 3.5% to 2.7%, when they have fired or have not hired thirty thousand teachers - that is, we have thirty thousand fewer teachers - when it has, in fact, been abolished, strengthening teaching, parallel support, the reception class, when they abolished technical education and flew two and a half thousand teachers in availability and twenty thousand students outside the class. Well, dare they all talk about excellence and excellent schools! We are actually destroying all education, delivering children outside school, private education, and then talking about public and free education. There are specific data, data now to talk about who is strengthening free and public education. Instead, they display the fig sheet and we are talking about standards and excellence. The Greek people understand very well that the measures we are proposing are measures aimed at the whole population, and indeed - I have used it again - with a biased, positive distinction in favour of those most in need. Yeah, we're discriminatory here. We'll make sure we're discriminatory. Because - and I will close with this - Aristotle said: 'There is nothing more unequal than equal treatment of unequals'. You can't tell people who start with different unequal startings, saying you give equal opportunities. You must be discriminatory in a positive way to strengthen all those in need. That's what we are, and that's our program!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Kourakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education and Other Provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u341	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u346	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u352	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u358	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u361	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u364	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u366	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u367	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u368	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u370	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u373	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u377	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u379	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u382	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. For Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27 and 28, a roll-call vote will then be held. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u383	Article 29 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u386	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u388	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u389	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u393	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. For Articles 32 and 33, a roll-call vote will also be held. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 131 and a special number of 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u396	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 131 and a special 19 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, you are violating the Rules of Procedure. There is no such vote. This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u398	The amendment with a general number of 135 and a special number of 23 will also be put to the vote on a roll-call vote. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 130 and a special number of 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u400	Therefore, Amendment No 130, and Amendment No 18, was accepted as a majority, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 136 and a special number of 24?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u402	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 136 and a special 24 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of Nos 153 and 37 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u406	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u407	Therefore, Amendment Nos 153 and 37 were accepted as a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 145 and a specialist of 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u410	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 145 and a specialist of 30 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 11 of the draft law. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 142 and a special number of 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u415	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 142 and a special 27 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 155 and a specialist of 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u418	The amendment under a general number of 155 and a special 38 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the Hall "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" thirty students and students and three trainers from the 2nd Municipal School of Lexis Kefalonia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the request for a roll-call vote. On Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 32, 33 and on Amendment No 135 and on the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: ‘Urgent measures for primary, secondary and tertiary education and other provisions’, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u419	As far as the procedure is concerned, I would like to remind you that under Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the roll-call vote shall be taken when a request signed by the total number of Members is made. At the end of the debate on this matter, the names of the signatories are given for the request by Members. If the required minimum number of Members present by the signatories is not completed, the application shall be deemed not to have been submitted, in accordance with Rule 72(2) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. If there is a minimum number of signatories, the meeting shall be suspended and a notice shall be made in the Chamber. Ten minutes after the announcement, the sitting shall be resumed on the basis of Rule 72(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I shall also read out the list of signatories to the roll-call vote here to see whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Here you go. Mr. Theodores Fortsakis. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Bouras. Here you go. Mr. Christos Kelles. Here you go. Mr. Timoleon Cocksucker. Here you go. Mrs. Lightning Arabaji. Here. Mr. Christos Bukouros. Here you go. Mr. Panagiotis Mitatakis. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Giulekas. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Katsafandos. Here you go. Mr. Giorgos Koumoutsakos. Here you go. Mr. Emmanuel Consolas. Here you go. Mr. Apostle Vezuropoulos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u420	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 32, 33 and on Amendment 135/23 of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education". According to Article 72(6), the accepting of the articles of the draft law and the amendment are ‘NEI’. The non-accepting articles of the bill and the amendment are referred to as 'OHS'. The voters say 'PARON'. Ms Dritsel Panagiota is called on the list by SYRIZA and Mr Kefaliannis Ioannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on articles and amendments to the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. I would ask that we start reading the list too late for Members' votes to be clear, because the proposal includes more than one articles and for the work of the voters to be facilitated in counting votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u421	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u423	Let us move on to the other sitting, Mr President. Let's start the other session.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u424	Mr. Drivelega, because you're putting the matter, we're going to take a ten-minute break. In the meantime, counting the votes will run. We will take a 10-minute break and then we will start the debate on the legislative act.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u425	Excuse me, but the announcement can also be made during the interruption. You can declare the opening of the other sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u426	I know, Mr Drivelega, but we have already reached agreement on a ten-minute break, and we will then begin. In the meantime, the voters will continue their work. We're interrupting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u427	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring of 27 March 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Existing regulation on the sustainability of the Greek Sugar Industry S.A." and due date" (A'35)". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 7/5/2015 on the draft law in two meetings. I propose that the draft law should become uniform in principle, articles and amendments at two meetings. Is this House conducive?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u428	The House consents. By the appropriate Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, Production and Trade was announced and the report was posted on 6-5-2015. I would like to inform you that the list of speakers takes place from the start of the debate and until the end of the speech by the rapporteurs, in accordance with Rule 96(1) of the Rules of Procedure and the right of second-handness have been signed and, if they so request, until the end of the debate. We are proposing for today to end with the ministers and rapporteurs and special speakers of the parties and continue tomorrow. That is how we have consulted with all the parliamentary representatives of all the groups. Is there any objection?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u431	What time does the meeting begin tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u432	Ten o'clock in the morning. I would like to inform the House that the voters continue to count on the roll-call vote that has been requested and carried out on the Ministry of Education's bill. Once the process has been completed by the voters, we will interrupt and announce the result, we will vote for the bill because it is in the urgency procedure and we will continue the debate. We have reached this with all the parliamentary representatives of all the groups. There's no objection. We're entering the conversation. The Minister has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u433	I would like your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u434	We'll show tolerance, Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u435	Ladies and gentlemen, a mere observer of the course of the Greek Sugar Industry would easily find that the ratification of the act of legislation we are discussing today was a one-way road, but also an urgent one for those who believe in the necessity of its existence. This was reflected in the positions of all parties at the joint meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade and Economics. It is simply that some cannot accept it by voting on it, because it does, of course, a left-wing government. For years you have been trying, ladies and gentlemen, to sell the Greek Sugar Industry to private hands. Nor did you achieve this, since you did not even understand the simplest thing, that your efforts would not have a successful outcome - of course - because simply the Financial Stability Fund and the Bank of Greece decided that the loans of the Greek Sugar Industry would be transferred to Piraeus Bank and that the shares would remain in poorly liquidated ATE. It also appeared that two of the three factories would be closed once the customs producers were not financed to meet the requirements of the raw materials plants. The continuing decline, ladies and gentlemen, of sugar production and the deterioration of economic levels, has been beginning for a few years, but the people responsible have celebrated that the company is going very well and has profits. There are many causes that have led to the current situation, such as the rapid deterioration of the economic sizes of the Sugar Industry, which was also listed on the Athens Stock Exchange, such as the reduction of own funds, the increase in short-term liabilities while reducing the current assets, the negative working capital, the increase in requirements - obviously because of poor payers - the reduction in sugar production and the realisation of high losses. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to one particular thing and draw your conclusions. The six of the total seven members of the previous Board of Directors lived in Athens, while the headquarters of the industry were Thessaloniki, with all that that implies and you all understand it. Of the three executive members of the Board of Directors, the two stayed permanently in Athens. Four of the seven members of the Board of Directors are members of Piraeus Bank, creditor bank, while 82% of the shares belong to the State. Since the beginning of 2011, there has been no progress, as I told you, because very simply, ladies and gentlemen, the shares were kept in ATE in liquidation and the loans, as I said before, went to Piraeus Bank, as decided by the Financial Stability Fund and the Bank of Greece. This is a global originality. Another special feature is that he was hired a second sales consultant, while he remained the first to not succeed in his work. Of course, both were rewarded and for a long time assessing unexistent offers. It happens, ladies and gentlemen, that I have been following the course of the Greek Sugar Industry for years. The administration of recent years knew that it was leading to the deadlock and that it could not fulfil its obligations and did nothing to reverse this course. How could the shares be sold, when the loans have them and the shares have them? These things can't be done. She didn't do anything to stop her payback. Of course, some of the scenarios discussed along the way, such as capitalising Piraeus Bank's demands. They instructed the company 'KANTOR' to study whether or not all three factories operated and ended up operating one. For those, ladies and gentlemen, they know, the game was lost before it even started, that is when the beet prices were announced in 2013. If the Greek Sugar Industry, for example, gave five million euros more to producers and they were properly informed, they would collect beet for at least 100 thousand tonnes of sugar and at very satisfactory production costs. With parallel production of the balance of the quota under the Fascist process and imports to cover the rest of the demand Industry would have no damage and the profits from the factories in Serbia would have been in an exceptional situation. Unfortunately none of this has happened, because, ladies and gentlemen, the Board of Directors has not only been able to solve the problem, but even to understand it. How else can it be justified that the CEO of the Sugar Industry in 1983, welcoming the then Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, northern Greece, at the plant in Platy, described "good this year's crop, which gives good quality and quantity performances". And to think that this was the worst year for industry with 30 million losses. What did we, ladies and gentlemen, receive in February? The Piraeus Bank's lending obligations - I tell you this with figures from the company's balance sheet on 31-12-2014 - to 143 million, a further loan of EUR 10.5 million has been granted in January 2015 to farmers of EUR 10 million other than last year and the funds have not been given a single euro for operating expenditure. The first thing we did was to get a loan of EUR 8.5 million with the only guarantee that Piraeus Bank - on which it is promised, as I said, the whole company's assets - the pledge of all the rest of the sugar, so that we can pay the shipowners to start growing the new year. Nearly everyone was paid, but the capital support with the 30 million, which we are discussing with the legislative act, was a one-way path for the other obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, let us tell you one truth. This funding is a solution to the immediate problem, but it does not solve the problem of sustainability alone. On 30-06-2015, perhaps the company, if we do not make the moves that need to be made, has the same problem and have - I would say - a problem of liquidity. So we need to see what we're going to do. And many Members have raised the big issue of sustainability. So we stress that we have not only made the move to save the company on a temporary basis, but above all to ensure these conditions in order to be able to operate on a sustainable basis. On the basis of the current capital structure, as I have said, no bank can finance it. Nor, however, can it become a capital increase again because the main shareholder ATE, as I told you, is in liquidation. There's a problem in this. And the Piraeus Bank itself should understand that the problem needs to be solved. This Gordios link between Piraeus Bank and the Greek Sugar Industry must also be solved and Piraeus Bank itself assumes its responsibilities, since it also has a large share of responsibility for its current course. I am not going to mention - because there are too many elements - in the rest of the figures. All I want to say is what we're doing from now on. From now on, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting with a point of order which I will tell you because I participated in this debate in the Council of Agriculture Ministers of the European Union. A graph on the sugar tariffs of the Member States was presented. I'm saying what we received. These conclusions illustrated graphically the cost of producing sugar from the Member States with Greece being out of graph, as production costs exceeded the limit of the graph that was 500, the cost of Greece was 700 euros per tonne. So this is what we have to deal with. We will, therefore, do what we need to do to solve the problem so that we can continue to grow woodland first. There are, of course, responsibilities. It doesn't mean we're forgetting them. We'll find these another hour. But now it is important to ensure the viability of the Sugar Industry, if possible at least the two Plates and Orestiad factories this year. We are doing a great deal of work and appealing to customs producers as far as they can, even at this time, in these days that there is a possibility. There seems to be this effort, but - as you know - weather conditions especially in northern Greece, in these areas were very difficult this year. We therefore want to produce as much sugar as possible for the simple reason that imports will be limited. We don't even get close to the needs we have for domestic consumption. So what have we done directly to help reduce the operating costs of industry? The first was to ensure associated support for cultivation and at the same time to integrate it into the integrated management regime. Since, on average, seven tons of beet are produced in one acre and the related aid is EUR 53 per acre and EUR 30 per acre, it follows that the aid amounts to EUR 12 per tonne of beet. Already the contract with the customs producers is at EUR 45, and if we subtract the EUR 12 then we have a cost - because the aid is EUR 33, that is to say, we are very low on the coil. Furthermore, there is the possibility of entering a special aid scheme, as has been done by Regulation No 1308/2013 for Finland. For Finland, for sugar production, it has a special aid scheme, due to the climatic conditions that exist. This will be our pursuit too, so that this 32 that I told you to fall down. In other words, to have a satisfactory price, and at the same time, at the same time, of course, the cost of raw material has fallen considerably. The second thing we want to do is, in any case, through the campaign and through contacts with the rural world, to increase the farmed areas as much as possible. In the account that we have done if we exceed the hundred thousand acres, this production that will exist will give us the conditions for an even greater reduction in production costs. That is what I would say if they are combined with a third intervention, which is very important, which concerns the operating costs of the plant - imagine that more than 25% of the cost of production is energy - with an appropriate intervention and, in particular, using the beet peel as a fuel, this may fall to 5% of the cost of production. All this as a package together. At the same time, however, the Piraeus Bank must understand that, for the industry concerned, for this operation, it must itself decisively ease the burden that exists, so that all this package can, we believe, create the conditions for making the big start. You know, ladies and gentlemen, since 2017 the sugar quota has been abolished, if we have made a start in the coming year that can create conditions for cultivation of over 100 thousand acres, it is very easy to get to sixty-eight, which is the quota that we have, very easily we can reach over two hundred thousand tonnes, which is the needs that we have as a country in terms of sugar. So from this point of view, I am making an appeal to close: ladies and gentlemen of the other parties, already your position, at least in the committee, was positive. Find a way to take the big step so that you too can respond to this agricultural world with great anxiety. There was a party - and because I see Mr Potami from Potami across the street - the mood and will to help. Do it all and know that for everyone it will benefit the reopening of this unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. I would like to inform the House that rapporteurs and special speakers from the parliamentary groups have been appointed: as rapporteurs from SYRIZA Mr. Konstantinos Lapavitsas and from New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis. As special speakers from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Nicholas Michos, from Potamis, Mr. Alexandros Hadjimitriou, from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs. Diamanto Manolakos, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitris Kammenos and from PASOK Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis. The Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr Olga - Nadia Valavani, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u437	Ladies and gentlemen, on 21 March 2015 Mr. 4321, which enacted the regulation up to a hundred instalments with a reduction in interest on late payment due by a percentage. The declared intention of legislating was to give a discharge by a percentage of anything that was not an initial debt or an autonomous fine, in order to make it possible to participate as much as possible of the three million nine hundred natural and legal persons - the three and a half million of whom they owed up to EUR 3 million - and at the same time to regulate as much as possible of the debt due, by presenting revenue for the State as we all know, a difficult time. That is why, among other things, the regulation of up to a hundred instalments of the previous government was exempted from all internal restrictions, pre-required payment for membership and a block of EUR 1 million. The question has been raised what led the next few days to the addition of Article 2 to the Act of Legislative Action. One day after the law was passed on March 22nd, a newspaper belonging to the New Democracy was released with a dedication in it and a headline title: "The tax trap blocks regulation - express". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Olga - Nadia Valvaani, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This weekend's survey, on the occasion of the Saturday morning publication, made it clear that it was intended to get the already proclaimed ones better. 4321 objectives were no substantial impediment to deletion of certified additional taxes or charges, but there was no possibility of timely supplementary legislation, as the preparation of the electronic application took more than twenty days after the vote and there was no bill submitted to the House. The existence of the next day, on Monday, March 24th, an act of legislation on the Greek Sugar Industry gave a solution. I have to refer to this brief history, something rather unusual, because during the debate on committees over the last two weeks there has been a reference on the part of representatives of counter-population to carabine manipulation and scandalous regulation. Who's this kind of manipulation done for? Who's this about? It concerns a total of three hundred fifty-five thousand debtors, three hundred six thousand of them natural persons and forty-nine legal persons of all sizes. All debts with established additional taxes are 19.5 billion in the vicious actually amount of 77 billion overdue, i.e. about 1/4 of total dues. These 19.5 billion outstanding debts include 11 billion guaranteed taxes and fees. They constitute 59% of that category of debt. In other words, an effective due date arrangement would be extremely inadequate if it did not include the above category of debt. In the hearing last week in committee an effort was made by some of the Vice-Presidents and rapporteurs to take advantage of the presidents of GSE and SYN respectively, that Article 2 of the Act on Legislative Entrepreneurship concerns only large and not small and medium-sized enterprises, so that the relevant organisations of craftsmen and traders should not be interested. Both Presidents - neither of whom is at SYRIZA - have assured the members of the committee otherwise. Let me make a brief reference to the results of the regulation as a whole and, in particular, about what has been introduced by the dues with established taxes. The overall results of the arrangement relate to the first twenty-four days from its launch, that is from April 18th to yesterday, Monday 11th May 2015. The figures for its part of the confirmed relate to the first twenty-one days, i.e. until Friday 8 May 2015. The numbers are rounded. In the twenty-four days until yesterday they applied for membership of the regulation of about three hundred eighty thousand debtors. A total of EUR 2.4 billion, which, together with the increases in the regulation that have not been cut - depending on the way each has been regulated - has been exempted from the exemptions at a rate of 3% for amounts exceeding EUR 5,000, which means that a total of 2.8 billion has been settled. Of these, cash is so far the 135 million, while another 417 million will be collected in 2015, thus bringing together 145 million of the so-called small regulation - express in March to some 700 million, what will be collected by the end of 2015 than has been entered into the arrangement so far. The instalments of the debts so far continue every year until 2023, the last year in which they will bear the smallest annual amount, about 110 million. We hope that within the next fifteen days, until 26 May, when the regulation is still going on, the results will be even better. With regard to the escalation of the number of applications and capital according to the amount of regulated debts, I would like to say that the two-two-six thousand in three hundred thousand applications, that is 60% of applications, are debts up to 2 000 euros. These account for 7.3% of the regulated capital. Three hundred forty thousand in three hundred thousand applications totalling 90% of applications are debts of up to EUR 10,000. These account for 28.5% of the regulated capital. The three hundred seventy-seven thousand in three hundred eighty-three thousand applications, that is 99% of applications, represent a debt of up to EUR 100,000, which is 68% of the regulated capital. Between 150,000 and 300,000 euros there are two thousand two-two applications and the regulated capital reaches 74% to that amount. Between 300,000 and 1,000 million there are four hundred sixty applications and the regulated capital from the beginning to that level is 92%. Over 1,000,000 million are eighty-six applications and the regulated capital is the remaining 8%. A total of 61% of the regulated capital relates to natural persons and 39% to legal persons. [[At this point, the warning bell ends the speech time of the Minister]] I'd like a few more minutes. In relation to the consolidated taxes referred to in Article 2 of the Act of Legislation, totalling EUR 2.8 billion regulated, 1.5 billion of the initial capital included consolidated taxes of EUR 156,000 million. Of these, based on the number of doses were deleted in 55.5%, i.e. 86.5 million. The remaining 69.5 million will be included and paid under 2.8 billion. With regard to the number of instalments, 47% of taxable debtors joined the hundred doses. A total of 60% of the debtors were integrated into a long-term schedule of seventy to one hundred instalments. The median 30 to 60 dose regimen was incorporated in 22.5%. The forward 5 to 20 dose regimen joined 12.5%. The remaining 5% of the debtors paid a one-off payment. A fundamental claim by some of the representatives of the Opposition was that Article 2 reveals, as they say, its scandalous character - fines are being extinguished. After hearing at plenary sessions on other legislative points and monsters, such as that we erase fines of smugglers, finally at committee meetings stated that ‘Yes, fines of the Customs Code are not erased, yes, fines are not erased, but fines relating to the issue of counterfeits and virtual invoices’. At meetings a situation was created rather unusual. The Minister responsible once again assured that the fines imposed for this reason are not eradicated, but are normally paid. He assured that fines are not erased in general. Conversely, speakers or rapporteurs claimed that fines are of course erased, since Article 2 of the Act of Legislative Content, which states: ‘a late submission of a declaration or an inaccurate declaration of Law 4174/2013 that have been confirmed with the principal debt’, is deleted by a percentage. However, those who know much more about tax than I will tell you that what L.4174/2013 calls a fine are the continuation of the additional taxes or charges under Law 2523/1997. So in his transitional provisions. 4174/2013 stipulates that in the allocation transactions of any tax issued after 1-1-2014 and relating in general to tax obligations, uses or assumptions up to 31-12/2013, the additional taxes referred to in Article 1 of Law 2523/1997, as in force against taxation and use, still remain applicable today. Following the acquisition of the enforceable title, the provisions of Articles 53 and 57 of the Code on Tax Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities shall apply. Case 4174/2013, paragraph 17. For the submission after 1-1-2014 of late debit statements relating to uses, periods, assumptions or general tax obligations up to 31-12-2013, the additional taxes referred to in Article 1 of the Law shall be imposed. As with taxation and use, 2523/1997. Following the acquisition of the enforceable title, the applicable provisions of Articles 53 and 57 of the Code on Tax Procedure, paragraph 18, of the Act of Accession shall apply. 4174/2013. In accordance with Article 5 of Decision No 1080/2015 of the Deputy Minister of Finance, the exemptions provided for in Article 1 of the Act. It shall apply from 1 January 2015. Case 2523/1997, referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling under Article 58 of the EC Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 58 EC). 4174/2013, the fine referred to in Article 54 of the same Law, where it is imposed after an inspection, instead of the fine referred to in Article 58, pursuant to Article 62(6) of the Law. 4174/2013, as well as increases and late payment interest of Articles 6 of the CEDEFOP and 53 of the Code on Tax Procedure, calculated upon recovery, as established at the date of application for the arrangement. Where the fine referred to in Article 54 is automatically imposed on account of a late submission and is not confirmed by the principal obligation, no exemption shall be made in this respect. In such a case, the fine may be adjusted in accordance with the provisions of the Staff Regulations. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. They do not fall within the scope of Article 1 of the Treaty. 4321/2015 the fines and multiple fees established under the provisions of the Customs Code. The fines and the multiple fees established pursuant to the provisions of the Customs Code and those referred to in Article 15(2) of the Law. 4174/2013 fines relating to non-issuance or in inaccurate issue of a document value and resulting in the concealment of the transaction or...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u438	Ms. Valavani, please if it can be soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u439	I shall conclude, Madam President. ... and in publishing or receiving counterfeits and virtual tax data, which are imposed by special acts of the administration, some or all are exempted depending on the number of instalments only from increases in late payment and are normally paid. I promised Mr. Hatzidakis to say a few things about the chronological order, because he thought it was immoral to erase fines before the crisis and the memoirs, that is, before 2009. I found this evidence, and I'd like to close it. Between 1977 and 2000, from what has so far been paid, the total amount of outstanding debts entered into the arrangement, namely 2.8 billion paid, is all - 2 million or 0.1%. Between 1977 and 2009, there are a total of 70 million or less than 3%. Between 2010 and 2015 it is 97% of the regulated debts, of which 45% or 1.1 billion is only from 2014. That, I think, answers all issues. Before all, it responds to why we reached a point like this, when in 2014 100% was paid - and the target for the ENPI was caught - that is, EUR 2.6 billion. This is the first time a 100% tax target has been caught, with the difference that almost nothing else has been paid. Apparently, people were afraid of their homes and what was connected to ownership on earth. The result was - and that is why most debts paid and joined are through 2014 - that since 8.5 billion in 2013, the dues jumped to 14 billion. It is an explosion that does not exist even after the beginning of the memorials, i.e. after 2010, between any other couples of years. This shows how luxury it really is to try to incriminate the fact that as many people as possible must be made at the same time. The fact that almost four hundred thousand people have already been regulated shows that this is the case, and that as much as possible the recoverable part of the due amount, which, as you know, relates to only 9 billion in 77 billion, according to the evaluation and specific assessment of the General Secretariat of Public Income Service. So every euro collected before 2009, which is almost zero, is indeed a conquest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mrs Valavani. We shall proceed with the rapporteurs of the parties. Mr Constantine Lapavitsas, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor for 15 minutes, strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u441	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[After REMUNERATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know they're late and you're tired. However, I believe that the legislative act that we have before us and which we are called upon to ratify is important because it deals with pressing issues in the Greek economy that require immediate regulation. It also deals with deep legal problems of the Greek economy, problems of development that are important. It demonstrates the failure of our country's development policy, from the previous governments of many decades. But it also lights on the development logic of our own government, which I believe is the only one that provides hope and prospects for the country. So you will allow me to say a few words about the general problem of our country's development, so that we can also put the legislative act into what I believe is the right framework. Greece - despite what is often and wrongly called - has been and has been a industrial country for decades. However, since the entry into the European Union, we have had systematic deindustrialisation. It is not an ideological point, it is a simple reality. This seems to be clear from the composition of the Gross National Product, which concerns the agricultural, industrial and service sectors. We have support for services and retreat both in the agricultural and industrial sectors. We arrived in 2013 in the service sector 82% of gross value added, 14% in industry and 4% in the agricultural sector. It is an absolute sovereignty of the services, in a way that is unprecedented in the Monetary Union and the European Union as a whole. This is also a tragicly false policy and development path. There is absolutely no doubt about that. Why? Because the service sector worldwide is characterised by low productivity, low competitiveness and a failure to produce world-wide market goods. If our country does not have a strong and systematic presence in international labour-sharing, this is largely due to the burden it has had on the services sector for many decades. Unlike this, the industrial sector in relation to agriculture is the real source of wealth for all countries. The industrial sector produces skills, stimulates productivity and creates marketable goods. It's pretty obvious. If you look at the developed countries, you will see that they all have a strong industrial sector, even if they have a strong service sector. They're not all the same. Germany and Japan, for example, still have a strong industrial sector, but even the United States and Great Britain, whose industrial sector is less powerful, have a stronger industrial sector than Greece. So Greece took the wrong road. It took the way of deindustrialisation, which became even worse in the years of the memoranda. That's what I'm going to come back to. But before I talk about the memos, I want to say a few words about how development is coming. Because there has been a lot of noise in our country, we have been filled with "developers" over the last decade, as have debt experts. So because I have been teaching growth finances for at least twenty-five years and because my specialty is more specifically the economy of Japan, let me say a few words about growth. Private is not good for growth, just as the public is not bad. The ideology that says private is good and public is bad is wrong. And not only is it wrong, but it's also outdated ideology. What creates growth is the dynamic relationship between public and private. There are synergies and there is cooperation between the two sectors in order to raise productivity and progress in technology. In order for all of this to exist, public investment, control and ownership of the credit system - the banks, i.e. - public banks, with another approach, of course, to finance. There are infrastructures to be supported by the public and of course there is also the wider area of development, namely education, justice and so on. - those which are so often reported. That's what Asia's experience teaches. The only countries that have rapidly developed over the past three decades are the Asian countries. In our country we do not understand that or if we understand it, we do not understand it. There is growth and growth because of what I described you in a few words. What did we have in our country from 2010 to 2015 - to date - is the Sugar Industry coming under? It is not true that there was no development policy. It is not true that the memos have no development policy. It's a mistake to believe that. As long as you read the first Memorandum, which clearly states that there is also a rational development. What's the development logic? I'll tell you. They are the most outdated ideas for development, which the New Democracy and the PASOK and so on. They are the ideas of the so-called Washington Consensus, which appeared thirty years ago. In our country it comes late and, as is usually the case in Greece, what is late appears and is presented as the newer ideas. I'm sorry, but they're not young. They're obsolete and they're failed. So what does the Washington Conference say, which appears in our country as'reforms'? So he says growth comes if you pay off wages, if you dismantle employment relationships, if you have deregulation of markets, if you shrink the state, and if you do so, hope that foreign investments will come. So I'm telling you boldly and all sincerity that this road is completely a failure. There is not a single country in the world that has a certain size and has developed satisfactorily with this policy. None, absolutely none. Development comes in the other way I described you rather than reform. Those who reform in our country don't know what they say. I'm sorry, but that's what this is about. The legislative act is certainly not a development policy. However, it solves a direct problem which threatens an important part of the economy. I would also like to add this to what I said earlier, which shows the developmental logic of our government, which, if we are to solve the problem that we are currently dealing with so directly, I think will apply. Let me spend two minutes in the Greek Sugar Industry. The Greek Sugar Industry for decades has been a great and strong pillar of the secondary sector and of the country's economy. Its major problems start in 2006 under the responsibility of the then managers and the then rulers. This is a political decision. The problems in the Greek Sugar Industry have a political root and not an economic root in itself. This is a policy of the national economy that stimulated services and destroyed the secondary sector. What I mentioned earlier. The first point of reference is the review by the European Commission of the common organisation of the markets in sugar in 2006, which did what? It led our country to a release of 50% of the national sugar quota and put the Greek sugar industry under restructuring by closing two factories in Larissa and Xanthi, with conversion, supposedly, in bioethanol plants. I can tell you from the Step of the House now that the cost of this notorious restructuring for the Greek Sugar Industry as a whole, its total loss, was EUR 60 million from this small experience of 2006-2011. Sixty million euros were lost by the Greek industry of Sugar from this experiment. A lot of that money was taken by the banks. In the same context, we also have the weakness because of the common currency, monetary union, to make budgetary manoeuvres to reduce or lose lost competitiveness. Europe from an exporter of sugar has turned into an importer and the six most powerful European sugar industries are currently controlling 75% of sugar production by importing more and more quantities from third countries. This is a great European failure and even greater in our country. Of course, there have also been domestic errors. The overwhelming blow to the Greek industry of Zacharis was given in 2011-2012, at the time of the memorandums, i.e. with the announcement of the privatisation of the company and the scandalous sale of ATE to Piraeus Bank. In other words, the same logic and deindustrialisation path continued, the wrong development path at the very time when we were talking about reform, consolidation and so on. And the various other nonsense that we have heard against cowardly over the last five years. The Greek Sugar Industry on the basis of this political decision passed to the special clearer with the loans passing to ATE and the property at Piraeus Bank, completely undermining the future of a once-increasing business. In 2014, only one factory was decided to operate in Platy. Lack of maintenance at the plant under operation in Platy, unbearable economic cost of transportation from Orestiad and Serres to Platy to make beet processing, poor state of beet due to long-distance transport and thus an increase in production costs. If the Greek Sugar Industry has high production costs, this is due to the political choices I have described to you. It is not because of other things and inability to compete with this company. At the same time, we have unambiguous beetles in the fields due to mistaken estimates and bad coordination of the company's administration at the time. And then I get to the administration. Bad administration and financial irregularities sealed the course of the Greek Sugar Industry. Who appointed the administration then? The parties that today come out and speak against the act of legislative content and represent the underprivileged, the very same people who appointed the staff who destroyed the company by their mismanagement. What did SYRIZA - ANEL coup d'état receive? According to the half-yearly report 2014-2015, on 31-12-2014 the Greek Sugar Industry had a summary of the following: Her stock was out of stock exchange. Own funds were negative. The turnover for the group was -7.8% and -35% for the company itself. The working capital was negative for all the uses under control. Its short-term commitments were EUR 143 million. At the same time, she had claims from EUR 40 to EUR 50 million - that is, they owed her and did not pay for sugar they received - accumulated losses of about 40 million, unpaid workers and customs producers on the side of the disaster and ready for uprising. With the injurious part of the liquidator and the sound at Piraeus Bank, with the clearer refusing to do as he had to, or finally showing discomfort to do as he had to, there was no other way than the act of legislative content. It was the only way to ensure the survival of the Sugar Industry. They paid the company's urgent obligations, otherwise it was in danger of being declared bankrupt. Without the act of legislation I personally believe - and I think it is obvious - that the Greek Sugar Industry would not exist today. With this operation, the liquidator of the Agricultural Bank pays thirty million euros to the Greek Sugar Industry, thereby providing liquidity so that the Greek Sugar Industry continues to exist, thus increasing the value of the assets available to the liquidator. At the same time, Piraeus Bank provided a new loan of eight million euros. He accepted to grant a new loan of eight million euros! Many colleagues have asked with great interest what this money is going to be. So I'll tell you what this money is gonna be like. It will be paid for by the customs producers - they have already been paid - and sowing will be done. Already thirty thousand acres have been shattered in Macedonia around Platy and fifteen thousand more acres in Serres and Orestiad. This is very small, but if we were not to go through this act of legislation here, it would not have broken anything in the campus for the first time in decades. This money will also be used to repay the company’s partners and suppliers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Five more minutes I need. There will be major debts from industry to creditors who are pressing for immediate repayment. And there will also be a chapter with which the company will be able to operate with new administration this year and in the years to come, to put the Greek Sugar Industry on a new basis. The legislative act is therefore an absolutely necessary action to protect Greek companies that are dependent on the purchase of raw materials from the Sugar Industry and which allows the Sugar Industry to go through a new phase. And because I know that a lot of noise has been done about labour costs, I tell you that the Greek Sugar Industry, based on the latest data I have seen, has already made a significant rationalisation of its costs, reducing the total cost of 10% per year, from 2012 onwards and reaching relatively satisfactory levels. He still has a way to go. I believe that the new administration, which has another spirit, will proceed to further rationalise both the labour costs and the working relationships, but also, of course, the movement of the company. That's why two things are needed: Firstly, it is finally necessary to cooperate with Piraeus Bank, which is supposed to replace the Agricultural Bank and should also act as a Rural Bank. The Greek Sugar Industry needs new funds, which will ensure greater cultivation in the garden. It must be paid for by the customs producers, because this is the way to get down and the cost of production. We must finally support production in our country. Secondly, other markets need to be opened. I know that the new administration of the Greek Sugar Industry is already looking to the ground and, with great interest, to find a way to increase production. To conclude, I would like to say two words on the outstanding debts, the regulation of which is also part of our overall policy to alleviate the impact of the memorandum on the country. Of course, it is not a question of productive reconstruction but rather of the wider and more general way. The Minister has already given you a lot of details. I will tell you this, what I understand as a essence of what is happening today: the second article of the Act of Legislative Content comes to supplement the n. Date of birth: 4321 of 21 March 2015. It is a further processing of the original arrangement, which was deemed necessary as it relates to the confirmed debts, which are not legally included in the capital owed by the different debtors, and therefore are also subject to such arrangements. Because only capital can't be regulated. In fact, with the Act of Legislative content, the Ministry of Finance attempts to improve technically in the recent legislative framework, as it was found that confirmed taxes, additional taxes, which were not covered by v. 4321, even triple the original debt in some cases, while the surcharges are on the sum of the original debt and the confirmed additional taxes. It can therefore be realised that without this technical improvement, there was a risk that the legislation already adopted by Parliament would not have the effect on the actual regulation of dues. The purpose of the arrangement remains the relief of the financially affected by the crisis of layers of the Greek society, because it enables them to be consistent with their debts, that is, it removes burdens from the financially affected. At the same time, however, it encourages major debtors to be more consistent with their debts. The regulation, therefore, is in the same spirit as Law No.4321 already adopted by Parliament in March. According to the Ministry of Finance figures up to 4 May from about three hundred thousand applications, the two forty thousand relate to up to 5,000 euros. The main volume, that is, is small debtors. It seems that the regulation is directed mainly at small and medium-sized enterprises - this is its aim - whether they are natural persons or legal persons. It is no coincidence, moreover, that the EESC and the EESC support the regulation, as demonstrated by their positions in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It has an obvious legal and social character. The regulation also proves to be effective, as it has been paid through banks over 100 million euros, while in 2015 it is planned to pay another 340 million, which in current circumstances is a very significant amount. It is also important that the majority of regulated debts had never been regulated before, thus improving the collection of public revenue, which was one of the primary objectives of Law4321 that we voted on in March. I would like to finish by saying that in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy they have focused on the great-minded ones, the ones who owe more than a million. They even talked about the moral danger arising from this. This is a typical example of the attitude of the parties that have ruled the country and the place for years, but also of the political system in general. Let us ask ourselves: How did the political class handle the relationship between the state and the great ones in previous years? The Greek state, in theory, was too strict to the great-great ones, to those who owed much, because it imposed high additional taxes and surcharges on them. They are very large the amounts that have been imposed on them. But in practice, what did we have? It was not only strict in the Greek state, because the big timers could in practice owe more and more to them without having any impact. It has been a typical hypocrisy case for decades ago. If there were no tolerance to the political system that governed our country for all these years, we would not have this situation, nor would the dues have been able to reach that level.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u442	Mr. Lapavica, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u443	I shall conclude, Madam President. At this point, the Government made the following choice: it tried to encourage and force it to bring the great people into the arrangement to start paying too. That is the purpose of the arrangement. This option, on the one hand, allows the State to start recovering and, on the other hand, to have access to the large tank of outstanding debts relating to the debts of the larges which are about sixty billion of the seventy-seven. We are in this way entering this tank and we are in fact trying to force these people to pay their taxes, those who have not paid all these years. So with regard to the criticism that has been made, we still have a sign of hypocrisy from the standpoint of counter-population. Those who blame the government for favoring the big time should have looked at what they had done over the years. I would like to say one last thing that the Minister has already said about the alleged inclusion of fraudsters and those who have committed customs violations. There is no such thing as it has been shown by a number of articles and specific provisions in a series of laws. Tax camps aren't favoured. To conclude, I would like to invite you to support the legislative act, as, as it has already demonstrated, it is moving in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Mr. Lapavica. On this point and before I give the floor to the second rapporteur for the bill we are discussing, I have the honour to announce the result of a roll-call vote in the bill of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion: 'Urgent measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education and other Provisions'. Article 10 has adopted a total of 259 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 106 Members. Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 11 has adopted a total of 259 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 106 Members. Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 12. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 106 Members. Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 13. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 106 Members. Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 14. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 91 Members voted against. 'PARON' 15 MPs voted. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 15. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 106 Members. Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 16 passed a total of 259 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 17 passed a total of 259 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 18. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 19. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 20. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 21. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 22. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 23. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 24. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 25. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 26. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 27. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. A total of 259 Members voted on Article 28. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 32 passed a total of 259 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 33 has adopted a total of 259 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 157 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. We now go to Amendment No 135 and specific No 23. I would remind you that it is the ministerial amendment that refers to extending the term of the members and collective management bodies of universities and TEIs and repealing the provisions of existing legislation, concerning the participation of the boards of HEIs and of these schools in the pre-selection process. On Amendment No 135 and on Amendment No 23, a total of 259 Members voted. In addition to the amendment 'NAI', 153 Members voted. On the amendment, namely 'NO', they voted 102 Members. "PARON" 4 MPs voted. Therefore, Amendment No 135, and Amendment No 23, has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u445	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u451	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures for primary, secondary and tertiary education and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed from Friday last Friday to vote on this evening, for the reasons that have been explained and agreed by all Parliamentary representatives, the bill and all of it today. Does this House therefore ask: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u457	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education and Other Provisions" were accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them, and it is as follows: (Applause from the SYRIZA Wing)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u458	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the debate on the ratification of the legislative act of 27 March 2015. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, has the floor for 15 minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u459	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, because it is too late and we are all tired, I thought I would not bade the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u460	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u461	So I thought I'd admit the following: Firstly, the troika is in the past, according to what the Prime Minister told us on 21 February. Secondly, the Memorandum also belongs to the past, according to the Prime Minister's assurances in the proclamation he sent to Greek citizens on the same day. Thirdly, that the negotiation that has been taking place over the last few months has therefore nothing to do with the Troika nor much more with the Memorandum. It's done with the good guys for something even better. Fourthly, that every day in this negotiation, things are increasingly in favour of us. We are negotiating heroic and levedica, because we know that every day it passes, every week the Dutch companies are increasingly pressing, and the German banks are increasingly pressing and the Finnish Treasury is getting dryer and more and more. On the other hand, the Greek economy knows days of blooming and if the negotiation is extended for a long time, then we must all prepare ourselves for a great Greek triumph and a humiliation of lenders. I come to the object, too. What we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, is not ratification of a legislative act. It's a good deed of government! Legislative content, but good deed! It was also noted by the Prime Minister himself. Alexis Tsipras himself, Genarris, said celebratingly: "Greece has a Constitution, which we want to honour, not to abolish or undermine, as the governments of the memoranda did by means of legislative acts." Mrs Konstantopoulou also added to her first speech: "No legislative acts will be accepted. This House will apply the principles of good legislature." The 'good legislative act' therefore deals with the sugar industry and the tax system. Except that the issue of sugar is nothing but a solution to the problem of taxes, while on the issue of taxes the government 'first time left' makes an impressive, admittedly, opening up to the public's greatists. I shall now proceed to the two individual articles. Greek Sugar Industry: Ladies and gentlemen, I start with two assumptions. Firstly, we agree that, yes, every effort must be made to defend the interests of producers in fact. It is a matter that we need to see in a responsible, serious and intergroup manner. For us, it is a priority, and I do not doubt that it is a priority for all colleagues in the Chamber, regardless of party orders. The second admission concerns the fact that the problem of Sugar Industry has not, of course, started in the last three months. There was a precedent, and it was serious. That is what I want to be quite clear about. I don't want to hide mistakes of the past. The problem lasts for years and we have to accept it. In this ‘good legislative act’, the Government argues that it is seeking the necessary capital support of the company in order to ensure its viability. Yes, sir. But he doesn't tell us four things! Firstly, he did not say - he came to the debate, I will explain it to you - of these 30 million, how much they will eventually go to the customs producers. Secondly, where will these 30 million be drawn from? Who, then, are they going to lose them? Because, obviously, they won't be found out of the air. Thirdly, how does the government guarantee the legal validity of this arrangement, so that the money will not be claimed back as illegal State aid? And, fourthly, does he have a plan for the next day the government or the money will go into a barrel without bottom? I won't tire you. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has the following: Firstly, producers will get less than EUR 1 million of the 30 million, about EUR 915 000. Secondly, the clearer who came to us and spoke to us said that he could not take the burden of regulation and that is why this legislation is being promoted, by way of derogation, of the rules of bankruptcy. I'm not saying it, it's the regulation itself. Thirdly, that certainly - there is no doubt about that - the government has not asked - be careful! - the compulsory opinion of the Ministry of Finance's State Aid Unit. This is provided for by the Greek legislation and the government did not ask for such an opinion. It is a facility that has been set up precisely to shield such decisions against the European Commission. In other words, the government did not see to it that it had its back covered. He didn't see to shield the setting. Fourthly, it emerged, of course, that there was no reconstruction plan for the company. The previous administration is accused of accusing the previous plan of a consultancy company. However, it is clear that such an arrangement has been promptly decided, which, regardless of the intentions - and here I do not want to trial intentions - is nothing less, nothing more than mirrors to indigenous people. The interest of the customs producers is not protected and the future of the Sugar Industry is not guaranteed. That is why the New Democracy is opposed to this arrangement. And I think that things are very clear from our side. Tax arrangements. Let us see what happens in the second article - the addition to the regulation on late payments of n. Commission Decision No 4321/2014- of the Act of Legislative Enforcement. Firstly, the law was published on March 21st with celebrations from the government. After all, it was a law entitled 'to relaunch the economy'. That's why the economy has been reinitiated. If some people wonder, because of this law, the economy has now come forward. Only six days after celebrating it was discovered that part of the arrangements could not work. And so the government has decided to bring this act of legislation, which is now before us for ratification. By this regulation, the Government comes to complete its own rules, the first, of the law, including the consolidated taxes for non-regulated or incorrect or inaccurate submission, in an attempt to fill the gap which the Government itself admitted to emerged. Of course we understand - and here I say quite frankly - your concern to collect revenue in every way, when you have allowed the state to dry out of cash, while looking for a negotiating strategy to deal with your election announcements and your post-election statements. Mr Mardas himself also confessed - when he took the cash available to all the public bodies by means of the previous act of legislation - that you fell out of revenue. In fact, tax revenues in the first quarter show a delay of EUR 748 million, while it is shown that all 147 million of the arrangement - expressly come from simply a transfer of payments from other years, as the delay in the direct and indirect taxes of the past financial years is in the quarter over 400 million. In other words, the government is celebrating the fact that he scored while he had accepted three. On the other hand, over 400 million have been lost over the past few years. And in the four months' time, the picture is not really different. 120 billion has been collected from this arrangement within the four-month period. However, the delay in the four-month period remains at this level of EUR 750 million. And that's alarming. And - you know - celebrations can't last long. And I tell you in good faith, and I hope you don't remember me in a few months. Now, SYRIZA celebrates to set up the n. 4321, the one supplemented by the act of legislation. In fact, the previous government laid the foundations for the n's arrangements. 4321. Initially, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Flynn for his excellent report. 4152/2013 that provided for repayment of up to forty-eight instalments with surcharges for old debts and fixed settlement of up to 12 instalments for current debts. And later on with the n. 4305/2014 the adjustment framework became more flexible, the interest rate decreased and the doses extended to seventy-two to a hundred. Did that law work? It's working. We know that within thirty-five days actually implemented, from 26 November to the day of the election, 73 million euros were collected. At times there are various figures on the government's side which have nothing to do with reality. You then came down the interest rate a little, you went further ahead with the instalments, you reduced the minimum payment and a new law. Except that the regulation of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, did not close the eye on the grandees, were not part of the arrangement of debts of more than a million euros, which SYRIZA is doing this year, "first time in grace". There are two questions to be asked here too. And I want you to think about them and give yourself answers. First of all, what would happen if the previous 'triestor' government brought such an arrangement? What would be the reaction of SYRIZA Members? In this House there are colleagues who were in the previous House. Consider, ladies and gentlemen, what your reaction would have been if there were a regulation from the previous government. Is there the slightest doubt that you would condemn it as a transaction by the previous government with interests? Is there any doubt that you would say that? Secondly, how do you feel, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you are currently preparing to vote for such a regulation? How well do you feel about your left conscience, as you are now preparing to vote on a regulation for big timers and capitalists? How do you feel? These are the reasons why we are opposed to this regulation, too, a charismatic arrangement in majestics. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of this, as I described it, of a good act of legislation coincides with the hundred days of governance by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. A hundred days when the government dealt with unbearable lightness and was enough to return to 2012 and perhaps even worse. The benefits of the previous period, for which we paid - and we did very well, we have a quiet conscience about it - huge political costs have been evaporated and the country is already returning to the sphere of recession, and Greece is resurging to the recession. Already all the forecasts of international organisations - I imagine they have not conspired against you - for the Greek economy have been revised downwards. The sizes of the Greek economy are deteriorating as if the worst political policy were to be implemented and that is the paradox. Every day you tell us that you will not take any real measures. But you don't have to accept them, you do them every day on your own. Worst material policy could not be implemented despite this policy that you are implementing and which has completely undermined the confidence of markets and investors, Greeks and foreigners in the country. Now, however, time is running out and, unfortunately, the public fund is running out of money too. Mr Tsipras and the government are obliged to proceed with an agreement, for which of course they will pay the costs for the populism of the election announcements. You didn't have to say it, but you said it. We were trying to stop you, we were trying to keep you from saying less. You will now have to bear the cost, because it will appear that you have been cheating on your constituents. In any case, you will now sleep as you set up and you will necessarily move forward, you will bear the political cost, and I hope you will dare bear the political cost so that the country does not bear the national cost. That is what we must avoid and we must all work together in this direction. Because above New Democracy, SYRIZA and the other parties there is Greece and this is what we call you, to land in reality and to behave with a sense of national responsibility. From there on, after you dare do what you have declared, this honest compromise, which we hope you will make, proceed as quickly as possible in this direction, then the agreement must be implemented. Because it won't be one outside, as you know, it'll be the original deal and the law of application. But it will also be the spirit of the government as a whole. And, here, be careful, with the scripts you have given us to date, in education - a moment ago we discussed the bill - to policing, to immigration, to dealing with entrepreneurship - I remind you of Skouria - and I sincerely hope that agreement will become an agreement, I am not at all optimistic that this agreement will work. Because the government will be like an Eskimo in the hot sun, it will be out of its water, it will not know how it will be dealt with in the environment of the Eurozone and the European Union. Three months, a hundred days, they were slain to completely kill trust in the Greek economy. I therefore wish you, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope you will find the courage to make this honest compromise, secondly, to find the courage to apply it and thirdly, even now, to change mentality and to understand that in Europe we will proceed only with European logic. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We, for our part, are quite clear: we have paid the political cost for the options we have followed, but we know very well that the economy was at minus seven in terms of recession in 2012 and in plus one in 2014. We know that Greece was on the verge of destruction in 2012, while in 2014 it was only ten to get out of the memorandum. Now, the best thing we can hope for is to get into a new and deeper memorandum. Even so, behave responsibly, behave seriously, we are here to support every nationally beneficial measure, but at last do the courage exercises needed to serve not the party but the national interest. That's what we're all judging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. The floor has been requested by the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr Stathakis for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u463	Will you interrupt the rapporteurs, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u464	Yes, Mr. Kutsuko, because he has an unsettled obligation, and he won't be able to come. Excuse me. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u465	Let me turn to the four amendments concerning the Ministry and make a legislative improvement, which I shall be tabling. There are four amendments, the first of which concerns people's markets. This is an extension of the deadline for the renewal of licences for producers and sellers operating in the public and outdoor markets. The purpose of this extension is to be able to benefit from the possibility of adjusting the percentages of doses to the insurance funds and to obtain information and at the same time to benefit from this favourable arrangement. The second point concerns the labelling of the people's markets in terms of the distribution of positions. There is a law that places separately - spatial planning I mean - the two categories of producers and traders. Today, more flexibility is proposed in the position-sharing system, so that there are no management difficulties, but without transparency being affected, since there is a discrepancy, but not spatially. In points 3, 4 and 5, there are procedural questions on the people's markets. I'm not going to stand on this. At the last point there is a legislative improvement and it concerns authorisations for the category of blind and disabled retailers. We are talking about travellers who received invalidity pensions and who were licensed to practice the profession at the same time. Following the publication of the last law on the regulation of the people's markets and of subsistence trade, i.e. Law 4264/2014, there was no provision for a transitional provision, which has caused the sudden overthrow of the living conditions of this particular category, those already licensed before. This is where this comes back. I read the legislative improvement: '4. A professional seller who transfers his licence shall not be entitled to a new licence as well as a retired professional seller because of old age or invalidity. Excludes professional sellers, as referred to in (a) paragraph 2 of this Law, as well as those holding a licence under the provision of (a) paragraph 1 of Article 22 of this Law, who had already retired as a result of invalidity or blindness while holding a professional dealer's licence at the time of the adoption of this Law. The licences referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall be retained in force. A professional seller, who at his request waives his licence, shall be permanently deleted, by decision of the Regional Council of the Region of Attica or Central Macedonia for the popular markets within their jurisdiction or of the relevant municipal councils, for the popular markets of the other regional units of the country, and shall not be entitled to a new licence.’ I'll testify. The second amendment concerns the extension of the development law for development projects subject to development law 3908/2011. This enables investors to produce the loan contracts with the banks. The extension shall be made for obvious reasons. There is a difficulty in liquidity, so it needs to be extended so that they can get a smooth loan from the banks to complete their investment projects. The third point concerns restructuring of the ESRB special services. We restructure the organisational structure of two ESRB services, with the aim of speeding up the procedures of the new programming period and the smooth closure of the previous one. It is essentially proposed that a number of sections be consolidated into a single sub-direction. This strengthens the hierarchical structure, saves resources and strengthens the effectiveness of the service. The fourth and final point relates to the Single Economic Area projects. It concerns projects co-financed by the European Economic Area. This concerns projects in a special category. Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are involved. The proposed regulation opens the way for the resolution of outstandings for EEA projects, which fulfil the eligibility conditions by resettlement of them in the Public Investment Programme, in order to enable them to be repaid. These are the amendments. I am tabling the legislative improvement in the Bureau and I regret that I cannot open a dialogue with Mr Hatzidakis on the interesting issues he has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u466	Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u467	Minister, a question is for Mrs Manolakou to ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u468	I would also like to speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u469	Okay. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u470	I would like to ask specific questions. As regards the amendment to the People's Markets, Mr Minister, you are giving the first paragraph an extension. However, it does not address the problem created by the requirement to produce tax and insurance information in order to renew authorisations. Are you going to legislate on this to give a definitive solution? As far as paragraphs 2 and 3 are concerned, the separation of producers - professionals - said 'not spatial planning'. But there is one ambiguity and many interpretations are given. There is one concern that through this ambiguity it excludes the issue of new professional licences. I'm asking you to make it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u471	Let us also listen to Mr Koutsukouko and answer a whole question, Minister. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u472	Madam President, if I may, procedurally, I would like to say this: we will make it easier for the Minister, but it is not right to interrupt the rapporteurs, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, and to start a debate on the substance of an amendment, which, as far as I remember in Parliament, was never done without the presence of representatives of all operators, whether they are the professionals or the producers, and we have always had an interesting debate in the Committee on Production and Trade. The way in which our Minister is legislating depriving us of this opportunity and cannot go through it. Nor can it, Madam President, pass from the Bureau, the fact that the government continues to legislate in the same way that the President of the Parliament last week returned a number of amendments. That is what I wanted to say now, and we will see about it tomorrow, but I repeat that it cannot be taken a job.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr Kutsukouko, for the labels. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u474	I'll start at the last point. Evidently, there has been extensive consultation with the representatives and producers and traders of the people's markets, and it is not a bill, but an amendment, which all parties agree fully. So it is not any arbitrary act on the part of the government, rather than I would say, there have been extensive consultations on this amendment. Now for the other two questions. As far as the first is concerned, there is obviously no possibility of tax information being provided. The law is clear, nothing can be done about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u475	Yeah, but he's removing his job.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u476	Just to extend this deadline allows them to be better integrated into regulations concerning the acquisition of insurance information if they have accumulated debts to insurers. The discrepancy remains unclear, you are right in that. It was also concerned with the way the spatial planning was lifted. Discretion really needs further clarification. We intend to clarify the terms and conditions of this discrepancy by ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u477	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Michos for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Madam President. I heard the previous speakers, and I heard Mr Hatzidakis very carefully. He talked about blooming, growth. What was the bloom and growth, Mr Hatzidakis, with your government? The seven thousand suicides? You say it out here, can you go tell the world? It can't be done. On the other hand, what are European logic? The state our homeland has come today? The signatures you signed from 1974 to today for reducing agricultural and livestock production to 3%? Is that what we need to follow and give examples? You spoke of a new memorandum. We'll see about that. You signed it, though. You can't talk about that. You signed it with the above. There's only someone who can hear you and believe you now. A serious, intelligent man, I don't think so. I heard Mrs Valavani saying something while I was in, about virtual invoices, etc. If you ask Mr. Apostolos, Mrs. Valavani, who is from Evia, once in Mistro, in a mountainous village, where they gather the olives with ropes, because they are downhill, they declared three thousand acres of corn pork. You understand how many people ate from the cooperatives, from the NSA, etc. If you look into this, the roots are very deep in these delusions that have taken place in our country. I'm telling you, because you mentioned it, because it's done. And I have listened to Mr Lapavitsa with great attention that he has said about development in countries such as Japan and China. I agree, but here in Greece, PASOK and the New Democracy have been ruling over all these years, unfortunately for our country. And it's an opportunity for your government to be found. Why has our country come to this situation today? Who's to blame? Did it all happen to them? He has not been in charge until now, in anything, nowhere! The world is responsible for paying for taxes and delightfully, and those people who killed themselves, because they lost their dignity, because their children did not have 2 or 5 euros to get a cheese pie at school and others were embarrassed and others jumped off the balconies. It is therefore an opportunity to show people who have trusted you who are responsible. Because they're responsible for the situation and the downfall. Because we're talking down. This thing that's happening in our homeland today is down. Everything has been sold out. There's nothing left. Your permanent position, when you were in opposition, was that legislative acts were a process that refers to us in exceptional situations. But now as a government you do everything you had denounced as opposition, unfortunately. And it chooses to confuse various issues, regardless of each other, and pass them through the legislative procedure. We are going to the Greek Sugar Industry which was founded in 1960 to exploit the cultivation of sugar beet in favour of the Greek people, with a view to the industrial production of sugar, a natural, nutritive and highly commercial product, thus forming a basic pillar of the Greek agricultural industry and the foundation of our national economy. If it were the Greek Sugar Industry as before, it would be very helpful at the moment in the Greek economy. The company was weary for more than forty years, a factor, through the five factories in Larissa, Platis Imathia, Serres, Xanthi and Orestiad, with pure crystalline sugar of high standards and quality. The decline in the production activity of the Greek Sugar Industry started first, when in 2006, when in the name of restructuring the European Common Agricultural Policy, our country was forced to reduce national sugar production by 50%, applying the quota measure. Mr. Hatzidakis left to listen to me. It was a New Democracy government then. Until 2006, the Greek Sugar Industry produced about three hundred thousand tonnes annually, covering adequately all the needs of domestic consumption. By applying the European rates of the quota, however, national production was limited to fifty-eight thousand tonnes per annum, exactly half. In 2013, national production yielded forty-one thousand tonnes of sugar, which in no way reflects the high productivity figures of the previous years. This is all because we all know it and we'll see it later. So these pathetic production quantities have made our country a deficit in sugar, thus imposing the need for imports. I mean, where we could export, we're importing. There was also a levy on the quota, so each country would have to pay EUR 110 to EUR 170 in favour of the Union's Agricultural Fund for every tonne of sugar it produces, in fact punishing countries like Greece, which had based much of their production tissue on sugar. The existence of this fund alone demonstrates the objective of the new agricultural policy, which was to give financial incentives to the countries concerned to reduce sugar production. At the same time, the minimum guaranteed price for sugar was cut by 36%, from EUR 631 to EUR 404 per tonne. At this point it is worth noting that from 1981 to 2006 the price of the sugar producer in the European Union and in Greece was protected from the quite cheapest international price by imposing duties, but which, in implementing the new common agricultural policy, were significantly reduced. As a result, companies of surplus sugar in the European North and some former French colonies in Africa have benefited, and we know what is going on there with cheap labour and what production in these countries is cost - since it has been allowed to import duty free from third countries. This policy also opened the way for imports of cheaper sugar from private individuals, traders within the borders, thus reducing the absorption of the productivity of the Greek Sugar Industry and all in the context of healthy competition. In addition to the implementation of the new common agricultural policy in 2006, there was also concern about the creation of a restructuring fund to compensate producers, who would necessarily leave the crop of sugar beet. This was then given the brave compensation of EUR 80 million, which of course was lost somewhere in the government budget deficits and was never exploited as much as it should have been, as much has been lost. On the altar, therefore, the application of the quota was sacrificed, and the prospect of the great conversion of the two plants into Larissa and Xanthi in bioethanol plants was also sacrificed. The plan provided for the treatment of sugar beet and corn, as well as of other energy plants grown in a reasonable restructuring of beet crops. We have, however, seen this plan being abandoned in the course of the run-up to time, leaving the two sugar mills to be devastated in abandonment and the people working in them to be led to unemployment. The only use made is that of the premises of the Larisa plant, the flagship of the production of the Greek Sugar Industry, as a place for storage and packaging of imported sugar, which reaches Volos port from Europe. Our ports are not just to import, they are also to export. We can export too many things. We have a place where he's a saint. Unfortunately, however, with previous governments and their policy we have become the way we have done. Today, few people work in the company in relation to the past, who with superhuman efforts try to keep the Greek Sugar Industry upright, accepting with dignity any reductions made in their wages, believing that they are doing the right thing. The constant decline in the number of workers in recent years has had a terrible impact on the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry, which has been in a very difficult financial situation both because of the lack of registration of new members and because of the famous PSI - a cut in Greek public bonds - held by 53.5% in their nominal value. The solution that is now being proposed is privatization - and here privatization! Since the reductions made to staff, as well as the reduction in their remuneration, together with the reduction in the company's borrowing rate, have restored the company to a profitability path over the last two years, one would expect that the cove of the expected price would be high. On the contrary, we have seen offers that do not exceed EUR 40 million, making the sale of a solution extremely inconsistent. When the loan obligations of the Greek Sugar Industry, which amount to EUR 130 million, can be mobilised and regulated through the tender, to which the prevailing buyer will bid, and the assets of the Greek Sugar Industry are currently more than 100 million, there is no question of a national interest divesting the Greek Sugar Industry instead of a lentic plate. In view of the fact that no one is unresponsible, let us consider the facts in order to investigate how we have finally reached this point. How did the Greek sugar industry collapse and are now threatened with total extinction? How did the 10 million profits recorded in 2005 in its balance sheet come today to close its factories, even when the international prices of the product have taken off? How did the four hundred thousand acres of beet left for only fifty thousand to be cultivated? Here we know what damage has been done and the farmers, because the farmer will buy oil, get fertilisers and more. It's a chain, it's not just that part. There's a lot more. How did the thousand three hundred and twenty-six permanent workers become just four hundred twenty-eight? How did the three hundred and twenty thousand tons of production fall to thirty - five thousand? And of course how did the biofuel production plan go down? Here some are behind, because there were two very big businessmen who were funding to make the biofuel factories. But this is a great deal of interest. Talk, open your mouth and let people know. It's not the debate in this House about you, it's not about us, it's not about anyone. It's for the world. Who's running the test in this country? Did previous governments, or any major interests, do as usual in our homeland? People need to know this. It's a chance to talk about it. That is why they voted for you, but we are not waiting, of course, and we know that. We know that the common agricultural policy has given direction. We know the Greek governments have executed. The Greek governments have always been performing since 1974. They were always snooping, headed, and what they were told they did. It's always what they did. That is why we have become - and I say it all the time - the current situation. We know that the bankers were served and the party bests were salted. We know that the common agricultural policy has passed and everything else is history. And so we arrived in 2015 with the closed factories, where no one is concerned anymore with the number of people who can live from them. No one is looking forward to making use of the possibilities that the abolition of production quotas, which is to be applied directly on the basis of the new CAP over the next two years. No one is counting on the constantly rising trend in the sugar price, which could give rise to high rates of benefits for national production and contribute catalyticly to our national economy, as sugar, like cereals, is one of the so-called strategic products for the household basket and increased inflation. By this Act of Legislative Content, you maintain the regime created by the previous government, which passed the loans of the Industry from the "bad" ATE to Piraeus Bank, while handing over the plant to the liquidator of ATE. In particular, the Act provides that EUR 30 million of the undistributed assets of the under special liquidation of a credit institution under the name ‘Agrarian Bank of Greece S.A.’ shall be paid directly by its special clearer to the controlled credit institution called ‘Greek Sugar Industry S.A.’ for a future increase in its share capital. Is there any chance that these 30 million euros will be able to be declared state aid by the European Union and that they will be called back as a fine? Unlike previous governments, which destroyed the primary sector and deindustrialised our country, the new government says it will reopen the factories and calls on farmers to re-production beet. We're not sure exactly how that would happen. How will you ensure the smooth functioning of the Greek Sugar Industry? Who guarantees us that in the near future its assets will not be sold and that in practice the Greek Sugar Industry will not become a pawn between the banks and other interests? For the People's Association - Golden Dawn primary production is one of the main pillars of our national policy. The solution cannot be semi-metres and bank loans, but an increase in agricultural production so that our country can have at least self-sufficiency in food supplies. Self-sufficiency is essential for its real development and prosperity and will give real dignity in the future. We want the plants to function, provided they remain Greek, with Greek workers, as they were for so many years, and with Greek raw materials from Greek producers. That is the only way the economy will go up in this area. In order to do this, a national strategy is needed beyond dependence and other interests and, of course, it is not by an act of legislative content. With regard to the second article, we say that no one opposes the possibility of Greek citizens, who are affected by the Memorandum of Understanding, to the greatest extent, being made easier in terms of debts and tax fines. The other is 'I don't want to pay', but 'I can't pay'. It is one thing that I try to regulate, and another is to delete fines, in essence, of big businessmen and interests by means of a legislative act. It seems to be favourable that strong businesses and business groups, which, apart from the exemptions of increases in the time of delay in the return on income taxes, VAT, charges and others, are now exempted by up to 100% of the fines imposed on them following tax controls. And we are not talking about fines faced by small and medium-sized free professionals in fact. We are talking about acts of smuggling, customs violations of funds being shipped abroad and much more. In particular, through the legislative act, the co-government comes to extend, to the benefit of big businessmen, the arrangement for the partial repayment of dues to tax debts up to a hundred monthly instalments. In this context, the companies that will join will have a discount of up to 100% not only on the surcharges and late payment interest accumulated up to the date of submission of the application, but also on the additional taxes or fines imposed on them following tax controls on grounds of established infringements. It is, in fact, a regulation of tax amnesty in favour of specific business interests. We are stating our disagreements and voting against the legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr. Micho. Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou, a special speaker from Potami, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna need less time. I'll start with two complaints. First complaint. In particular, on such serious issues, we should perhaps have a completely different time, to which the parties' special speakers will be able to develop their positions. It is not possible for empty chairs to discuss two such serious issues. The second complaint concerns agricultural production with the primary sector. In the first piece of legislation we have made for the primary sector, for agricultural production - because sugar may be the most neural part and the real picture - the mirror of the primary sector and the way we want to manage agriculture in our country - we have an emblem of another rough layout, so that sugar is lost. The Greek Sugar Industry on its own is a matter that should concern us solely with this. But we come here with a sloppiness - I do not know if this sloppyness is being guided anymore - and with bad legislation we go into a process of bringing together inconsistent provisions in fact and we try to understand what we need to vote on, what we need to legislate and what is the goodness of our country in particular in every area, which we are dealing with every time. I shall begin with the second one that is not my sector. It is not my specialty. It has to do with late submission fines or no statement or inaccurate statement entered into with the principal debt. I'll tell you something from my experience. It is a clean disaster every time we enter the process and regulate and legislate on genomes so important issues. I shall refer to two examples, and I shall close here. Some time ago, a businessman went and paid 1.8 million euros. He adjusted his debt through such an arrangement. What did he actually do? Something he didn't say five years ago, he went and said it now and that's why he was given to pay 1.8 million euros. Did we ever think, Minister, how many did he destroy with this 1.8 that he didn't pay on time? We have been in a process of evaluating all those who use these acts of legislation, those provisions which regulate such inaccurate statements of submission or non-reportation of declarations or confirmation of taxes and supplements - to say so - amendments which come and regulate and settle issues and loose ends which have to do with the small but also have to do with the large ones? It is also about those who destroyed the Greek economy. And a second example that was a long time ago, we will find ourselves in front of us. He's coming, he's coming. It's about the biggest retail company in our country, supermarket. If we look at the settings it has! With successive graceful arrangements, this amount has arrived. The total amount is approximately EUR 1 billion in arrangements for the Greek State, for tax debts, for VAT. It may not fall under this provision, but it has to do with the logic of this provision. It is about EUR 1 billion, ladies and gentlemen. These are missing from the market. They're missing from the kid. They are missing from the one who could survive with 20,000-30,000 euros. This $1 billion that has left the market is the 1 billion that will destroy us. These grown-ups that we are dealing with just like that and say "they are eighty-six people, they are no more" can be fifty, they may be thirty, but one of them destroys thousands. I can't get into the process and control everyone separately or as Potami we can get into the process to control each one of us now, at the moment, because with these genograms, we really, most of the time, we're astonished. It is impossible to see where we are and what they regulate. There are misunderstandings, misunderstandings. You have given many of the explanations that were required, but there are surely questions and they should be avoided. We can't support them. And now I come to the first part of the legislative act, which is the part I know very well, not because I am Seraeus and we have a sugar factory, but because I really have been dealing with sugar for too many years. Sugar, it is good in general, to discuss and make a general economic policy and to try to debate and support our view on general economic policy. Sugar, however, is something specific. It is a monopoly - the first word'monopoly' - and it is a monopoly in all the Balkans. We have the advantage as a country of having a monopoly, which is a monopoly in all the Balkans. There are three factories in Greece, two factories in Serbia, one in Albania, no one in Kosovo, no one in Skopje, no one in Bulgaria and the factories start from Croatia up and down. We're coming to Turkey. I mentioned this to you in committee. Istanbul has twenty million people. There's another ten to fifteen million on the outskirts. The nearest sugar factory in Turkey is located in Ikonos, two thousand seven hundred kilometers away from Istanbul. So we have a monopoly that we only manage. How have we now managed to destroy the monopoly? A lot of different and successive moves led the sugar here that it is today. Before I say to you, however, specifically how it was destroyed and before I told you what the project is now under way and what we have been discussing in committee, I will tell you this. Even now it's a plan in progress that you can't deal with because you have pure intentions, but you don't have the knowledge. The previous government left sugar in her luck. You still don't know how to deal with it. And since you have operated ideologically as to the appointment of the administration, it may be an honest administration, but it does not know this sugar market that runs unaltered. But we'll leave that for the end. That's what I'm gonna close. The sugar beet, except for sugar, also has a number of other by-products that no one has ever exploited. He didn't take advantage of them because he didn't want to? Didn't take advantage of them because he didn't know? But from now on, after the committee, after today's and after my denunciation tomorrow, no one can say that they do not know. The molasses, which are by-products of sugar, have been sold for too long, Minister, EUR 0.14 pounds. With a simple conversion into a factory it could be sold as a 2 euro citric acid per kilo. The whole conversion comes and charges 0,14 to 0,05 euros. It could, in other words, cost EUR 0.20 and sell EUR 2. No one ever did. The feed that comes out of sugar is the best food in total. There's no longer this feed anymore. In Thessaloniki they started unloading ships because our factories don't work. And I'll tell you a secret: they won't work this year that they're coming. Over thirty to thirty - five thousand acres of beet are not to be sprinkled. There's no way they can work. We are now coming to energy. Sugar factories are in themselves power plants. At least 5 MW each factory. Larissa and Xanthi, who shut down and became the old-fashioned, may be the biggest scandal, because they could produce electricity. Minister, you know that. They've been screwed up. They've been scrapped. We are talking about the EUR 60 to 70 million that we received as a replacement in order to drive them to bioethanol, but they could, by themselves, produce EUR 15 to 20 million a year from electricity production. Since they closed down to today, we would have once and for all received the sum that the European Union has given us only from electricity production. This is another by-product the sugar produces. And not to tire you any more - and here I shall end - I will now tell you how they have been destroying sugar for too many years - for at least three years - how the previous administration has destroyed the sugar. The trick was simple. Sugar had to come out injuriously. Sugar had to be proved not to be profitable. How did this start? The Sugar Industry has slowly started not to be paid by those who sold its sugar. Buyers did not pay her their debts, so at the moment they had to collect 70 to 80 million. At the same time, however, the sugar, because it slowly began to cut, disappear - and the previous ones said that half of the quota has gone and hundreds of eight thousand tonnes of quota that we now have, have years to cultivate - has gradually begun to have need for sugar in fauna. Currently the Greek Sugar Industry does not sell its own sugar, sells bacon sugar. The contract is made each year between the administration of the Greek Sugar Industry and those selling the bean sugar. They're two companies. It's not a secret, it's not a secret. We all know. It is a French company and a Polish company. They are the companies that have been interested in buying sugar for too long. Also, it is no secret that these two companies are former members of the Board of Directors of the Greek Sugar Industry. Now I will only ask one question and the conclusions are all yours. Those who, as a board of directors, allowed sugar to be credited and have to collect 70 to 80 million from private individuals, are now the same ones working on competing companies, where Sugar is in debt and is forced to take these loans now. Because it's not just 30 million, it's 48.5 what he got. It is 30 million aid which you have given and 18.5 million of the loans from Piraeus in order to repay transporters and customs producers. Now, tell me, how'd this story not have checked by now? I say again: I am the board of directors, I sell sugar, a stock exchange, and I have to collect 80 million without guarantees. At the same time, because I have destroyed customs production in my own country, I cannot cover the production of sugar from the beet, I buy sugar from someone, to whom I owe and to whom I owe - I myself have charged sugar - now that's where I go and work, I work with him. This is Sugar so simple. These are the millions missing from Sugar so simple, plus the fact that the by-product never worked. Now we come to the 30 million you gave. And we would really like to see the primary, secondary and we would like to have an act of legislation that we will take, analyse it, develop it, give you amendments so that we can save Sugar. But you say that these 30 million will go to the producers. You know they won't go to the producers. Of the 30 million went 900,000. You were right and right, because it's the rest of Piraeus' loan. Note that Piraeus has committed about 40,000 tonnes of sugar at the moment. Forty thousand tonnes of sugar is about 20 million euros. These forty thousand tonnes are committed. Piraeus, the last 900,000 of the loan it had to grant for the repayment of the customs producers, did not provide for them to be supplemented by these 30 million. These 30 million sugar you gave to do you know where they're going, ladies and gentlemen? They're going to the payoff for the bean. It's very little money that's gone, and that's right, Minister, I don't call it a charge...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u481	No, the situation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u482	I don't call it an accusation. I'm telling the situation where Sugar is. These 30 million are currently being used to pay those who charged sugar, not the customs producers, not the transporters. They go to those to whom we owe around 10 million of the fauna they gave us, to put us in the hand, so that we would have to work together again with the same and the same producers, they went 900,000 euros. Now let me tell you what is happening right now. The administration has very pure intentions. The new administration, I really admit - I know the sugar very well - has very pure intentions. It has nothing to do with what has happened for so many years. But it is so competitive that the sugar environment - it is too profitable and therefore also competitive - is not possible with such genomes that we can face the successive attacks that we will receive from the millions of interests that want to manage Sugar. It's millions of people playing on the sugar market. What contract is currently signed and balanced for the new administration to sign? You haven't dealt with that. Those who sold us fauna, put a limit on the price. After Sugar took the fauna from the Frenchman or the Polish and made it a package when it had to be returned to the market, the man selling the fauna had a restriction that "wherever the price goes, I will not pay you." I mean, "I sold you the sugar 400 euros and did in a week of 600? I'm not taking it 600. I'll get it 440 euros. All 160 euros up to 600, I'll earn them." That's how we've been stealing the quota for two years. In other words, what we have the right to sell, because they cannot come to sell it to our country, sell the fauna and have a contract - the previous administration signed it, the current administration grows up at the moment we are talking about, because we said that 30 million have solved no problems, no problem - and they are asking to sign the same one again. That is why, Minister, really be careful not to sign this convention. We really shouldn't sign it, because that's where the sugar money is stolen. And he'll say what? The man who gives me the fauna, after he has actually destroyed the sugar, after the sugar has been dissolved, will give me 400 euros and even if it goes 650 euros, I have to give it 440 and go to the market for 440 euros with my sugar. I've paid her, it's my sugar. Ladies and gentlemen, I will stop here, I will not tire you any more. It's time. As you understood the River really wants to support Sugar. For the second article of the Act of Legislation, we have told you of our opinion. For the first act if it was alone, and if we really had time and opportunity to fix things, we could support it. It is, of course, a question that we have asked from the outset if we could deal with the two articles separately. The answer from the Bureau was that we cannot deal with them separately, so we will vote against the entire legislative act, because, as other speakers from Potami will develop, these genomes cannot support any serious problems, especially any serious problems like the issue of the Greek Sugar Industry. But we tell you, Minister, that especially on the issue of the Greek Sugar Industry, what we have, we will tell you. Any help we can offer, if you ask, we will give it to you, but without asking for it, we will be next to you, so that we can support the revival of the Greek Sugar Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr. Hadjimitriou. Mr Diamanto Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u484	Legislation by an act of legislation shows weakness and authoritarianism at the same time. It's a convicted method. As much as you are trying and want to blur it, sprinkling with sugar, you cannot hide especially the second article that needs capital you come to cover and satisfy. As far as the Greek Sugar Industry is concerned, the issue is the operation of the remaining factories and this also wants medium-term planning and commitment on your part and, above all, that you will retreat into the reactionary, anti-popular decisions of the European Union and the Common Agricultural Policy. This means that you will plan on the basis of the needs of the country and of the people, rather than the needs of the European monopolies and the European Union's policy, which rapidly promotes the concentration and concentration of production on monopolies, destroying small and medium-sized strata, which leads to bankruptcy. In the debate, however, you have not made any commitment in your speech today in the committee. You haven't even expressed it as a wish. You are referring to the acute problems that you have received - we recognise them - but you are diligently hiding the pro-monopoly policy of the European Union, the tough policy of the common agricultural policy, which creates ruins among small and medium-sized farmers, in order to make big farmers even bigger and bigger. This applies to every sector in the economy. That is the philosophy and aim of Europe 2020, which you too, as a government, accept and implement. I will not say what it was, how it was created, what a turnover the Greek Zacharis industry had, how useful it was, where it has arrived today. A lot has been said by them, as well as by bodies which we have heard in detail, as well as by those who are involved in the agricultural sector. But what has not been said clearly and clearly is that it is the result of the European Union's common agricultural policy first and foremost. In capitalism, depending on the phase and needs of capital, state businesses may be created, but they may also be privatised or closed. But behind it is the profit and interest of the capitalist. But you can have growth and, at the same time, beft workers, as is happening in Asia. There is also a transfer and reduction of the production base rather than deindustrialisation, but it is becoming aware of the profit again. In addition, in the capitalist way of producing almost a state-owned company, such as the Greek Sugar Industry, it goes bankrupt with the contribution of the urban state and the European Union - because, of course, they have a policy - to further favour European monopolies. This is therefore a conscious choice at the expense of the people in sugar, at the expense of the incomes of small and medium-sized customs producers, as well as workers from the Sugar Industry, who live in uncertainty and insecurity, as well as against other sectors involved in customs farming, such as customs exporters, etc. This is called the destruction of productive powers for the profit of business groups. We also have many examples of this in other sectors of the economy. Are you going to change them? Oh, no. Because the European Union also supports the liberalisation of capital movements, you also accept the strategic choices and, of course, you also accept the strategic role of capital in our country. It is hypocrisy and challenge, however, that New Democracy and PASOK shed black tears when they consistently fulfilled the destruction of the Greek Sugar Industry, when they took the subsidies of the European Union, to break the baropoula machines in the sugar factories of Larissa and Xanthi. They have even demolished the walls, so that the European Community can be sure that the factories will not be reopened. When the JRC was pressing through and out of the House to keep the three factories open, with timely questions, interventions, reports, with the headlines of the "RISOPAST" on the issue of closure of the factories, to read on the front pages of all the media, to find out all the world about the crime that is being committed by the then government and the European Union, when there were tours from the JRC in the sugar factories, but also mobilisations by the PASY, PAME, PASE by calling for a coordinated fight with the shipowners and a total of small and medium-sized farmers, workers and consumers, you were deaf. Because you are parties of the Euromonstrate, like the current government, which is bowing to the European Union's policy and considers our stay unnecessarily. That is why the questions we raised in the previous government and, in fact, in view of the abolition of the quota in 2017 in sugar, we are also putting them in today's conflict and we demand an answer. And don't hide behind the 30 million euros. These are for the extension of the death of the Sugar Industry, which has been specified by the European Union and the previous governments. So we're asking you. What measures will the government take? Specific measures, not what you said. What plan does it have to run and not close any of the three factories left? Will you plan to produce the entire quantity that the country and the people need for their needs, independent quotas and restrictions from the European Union? What programming is there for the development rather than the shrinking of customs production and domestic production by the government? And when we say growth, we say it clearly. The factories are over forty years old. Here, in the forty years, man went to the moon, traced Mars to it. So these factories also need mechanics and technological modernisation, to become more productive. That is not enough, Minister. And this year, the climatic conditions and uncertainty have not helped to cover necessary beet acres and will obviously be introduced into the raw material, but there is potential and need to be programming, short-term, medium-term and long-term, and we want to know if you have it and you are not making fun of it. We are proposing that, for the time being, we make it clear about the survival of the wood-growing and the Greek Sugar Industry. Firstly, to change ownership and become the Sugar Industry exclusively and purely state-owned asset. Secondly, to modernise factories in engineering and technology and thus acquire the ability to produce at lower cost and to form a better price for people's consumption. We are thus becoming self-sufficient, but there are also possibilities of exporting. If you ask what money and resources, I tell you that days ago the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction informed us that there are some 800 million euros from the Fourth Community Support Framework, which are at risk of being returned, if they are not used by the end of the year. Thirdly, with the first insanity in the Common Agricultural Policy and the European Union for restrictions and quotas. In other words, developing for the people and not for the banks and monopolies. This means a break with the European Union. As far as the second article is concerned, exactly what our colleague, Mr Karthanasopoulos, has said to the committee today is a parliamentary representative. Who favours and serves this article? The big chapter, those who had the huge, scandalous tax exemptions given by the previous governments and have remained intact, that is, they remain with the current government. Of these, then, when someone was caught in the light of seeds or wrongly - for example, doing customs infringements - they fined him and the tax he would have paid to the state if he did not make the oil, as the people say. However, these illegals did not pay, let these huge debts accumulate, operate their operations normally and have their activities done nothing. And what are you doing to them today? You are consciously giving them fines, which are not from delays, but because they made tax and customs violations to make even greater profit. This is what this arrangement, deleting, has dealt with, because the rest were dealt with by the 100-digit arrangement. Of course, you are collecting raisins from the people that the previous ones had put in, and you had promised that you would abolish. And that is, above all, about the unfair tax on HIS. About five hundred thousand people had not paid him by conscience or financial weakness. And you're using them now as an alibi. What does the evidence show? 90% of the debts, which were up to EUR 10,000 and which came for regulation, represented only 8.5% of the total amount due. That's evidence. The marble, that is. So the rest of the people who came to set up were the big ones with the lots, who are the winners. And so that people who have the patience to watch us at this hour, when one made a customs violation, namely, smuggling, apart from the fine, the tax evasion, i.e. the income that would come to the state, the state budget, could understand. So now, with this second article you're erasing it. You're giving him the tax foregone that he had to pay if he didn't make the violation. Otherwise, the Deputy Minister for Finance complains that we are accusing her of scandalous regulation, because they do not enjoy or reduce fines. So, the taxes that come from the fines of illegality, what are they? You are playing with words, as you are doing as a whole as a government with the negotiations and the troika for the painful agreement you are preparing for the people. Today's "RIZOPASTI" is revealing and on this subject, since the government has already sent to Brussels the 2015 National Reform Programme. It is an eighty-nine-page text in detail - it is about defending the interests of capital with ambiguity but also about the working class - through which the government makes it clear that it will not move rum outside what constitutes the European acquis, that is, the whole of the European Union's policies which define how capitalist recovery will be guaranteed. The government has even described this programme as a remembrance of the government to exit the country from the crisis. In other words, the National Reform Programme is a common territory of the European Union and of the current government, as was the case with the previous governments and the European Union. It is thus clear that the policy applied has a full follow-up despite the change of government. This follow-up through the 2015 National Reform Programme is, of course, expressed by a class mark in favour of capital. And by the way - and that is why, if you wish, I mentioned it - we want to ask: Are you not telling us, in these eighty nine pages of the National Programme, if anything is mentioned about saving the Greek Sugar Industry, or are you staying at 30 million and ending? We're waiting for an answer. In general terms, therefore, we are voting against the legislative text in principle. We are voting'residences' in the first article on sugar and in the second article, which delete fines for infringements. The amendments will be put to tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u485	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute. It is specific that things should not be said, which have nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u486	Ms. Valvanie, for a minute strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u487	You will also give me the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u488	I think that this thing should be stopped, that is to say, reading things that do not exist in the law. Nothing is cut from the Customs Code. Where there is a smuggling act, the duty due shall be multiplied from three to five times. That's what's being paid for. In addition, if the object itself is not for seized, customs duties are also equal. This, too, is being paid whole. What's the only cut? It is what is called 'external interest' - there are neither confirmed nor anything else in the Customs Code - where, if it does not pay them - that is, of course, no one pays them on the spot and why they are huge sums when they are caught smuggling - there is a interest up to the date they are paid. That is the only thing, that is, external interest because it has not been paid directly and is paid in full for what has been charged, that is, three to five times the tax due plus duties, if it has not been seized. So stop saying things that do not exist in the regulation. I don't know where you're reading this stuff. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mrs. Valabani. Mr. Dimitris Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u490	Will you give us the floor, too, to answer the Minister? The Minister cannot answer and we cannot answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u491	That is the case, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Cammane, sit down, please. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u493	You can baptize as you like. You can say that the meat is fish, but it doesn't stop being meat. From this point of view, whether you call them fines or call them additional taxes or fees or surcharges on interest and interest is the same thing. You're enjoying, that's the essence, you're giving up. You can say it as you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u494	But they have nothing to do with the Customs Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u495	You're erasing millions of euros from big timers, from tax-hunters, from those who've committed violations of tax law. That's the point. You are deleting additional taxes - say it as you want - millions of euros from tax-guns. Not the ones they couldn't, but the ones you were stealing on purpose. That's what we're talking about and that's what we're testifying to you. Whatever you say, that doesn't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u496	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, thank you. However, Mr Karathanasopoulos, I am sorry for the remark I am going to make, but with what you have just said, you have not answered the Minister. Just repeat what you have said to the committee and what Mrs Manolakou has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u497	And the Minister reiterated what she said half an hour here in plenary and another hour in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u498	Just for the conversation. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Kammenos for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u499	I thought the problem has been solved, that nothing is being cut from the Customs Code. This is unprecedented, that is, to say that nothing is included in the code, and to say the other 'not included'. Common sense no longer raises hands!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u500	All right, Mrs. Valabani. You're welcome. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u501	Give us the names to disprove...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u502	Peace to you. Peace to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u503	There's no one who's paid, who has anything to do with...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u504	Ms. Valvanie, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u505	Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u506	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for 15 minutes. No one else speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u507	Thank you very much. I'll try to be shorter than 15 minutes because of the time. First of all, I would also like to thank Mr Hatzidakis, who has sat late, although he has spoken secondly, because it is good to be in the Chamber and to listen to all the colleagues' suggestions, as well as to Mr Potamio and everyone. I will start from the Communist Party of Greece. I'm not going to start. I'll start with that. As far as I understand it, the Communist Party of Greece today told us that since this government has taken power from the Greek people, managing finances, as the previous Members have said very well - I do not want to explain what we received for the Greek Sugar Industry - the solution that it proposes is not to give the money, not to give Piraeus the 18 million and to close it. There was no other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u508	That's your interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u509	I'm not going to discuss with you. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u510	Yeah, but you're misinterpreting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u511	It doesn't matter. I'm making an interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u512	Ms. Manolaku, please. Anybody's gonna be talking about it here, if he's misinterpreting the other guy? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u513	It's simple. You want the industry to close down. If the thirtys are not given, and if Piraeus does not give eighteen, and if we did not carry out this arrangement, it would close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u514	And if my grandmother had a coke, it'd be a trolley!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u515	You must apologise for your position as a working party. Nothing else I have to say. This is your place to close. Find them with the workers. We're going to save her, and we're accused of that. Right the mystery and the left of SYRIZA. State capitalism, we've all studied it, and we've seen him what he's like. Monopoly one, monopoly the other, oligopoly one, oligopoly the other. Either you save the lot and save the country, or you say, "I'm pulling a locker, I don't have 30 of the clearer, I don't have the bank to give, I don't restructure anything and I close the shop." We will all apologise to the workers, because we have to do it, and the previous governments, who have denounced it as a company. And you have a responsibility too. We're young. Now we're in the House. You've been here for 50 years. What have you done for fifty years to control Mr Hatzidakis, Mrs Diamantopoulou, and I do not know who else was Minister of Development, Mr Venizelos, what have they done these years for the workers for whom you are burning and for the viability of the company, rather than lifting banners? And I'm ending up with the JRC. I'm going to Mr. Hatzidakis, the Minister of Development of the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u516	And you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u517	I'm talking to you in the plural, and I demand respect. We're not partners. Mr. Hatzidakis, you were two years Minister of Development. I have learned in my work a simple thing: When a company does not go well, I look to restructure it, its debts, its expenses, its operating expenses, I see what I have to do with sales, what I have on payroll, I see my income and my expenses. From what I understood, after cutting the quota, he stayed with half the sales since 2011. You took over the government in 2012. Half-sales means I have to do something with my expenses, or he goes to the hazelnut. There's no setback with 140 million debts. When you owe 140 million, you owe a bank, you owe suppliers, you owe PPC everywhere, you have to do something - which I will say what makes sense for us who have run ten businesses in our lives - such as increasing sales. You've made seven hundred trips, missions, all the lengths and backs of the world - well you did - to develop the Greek economy, a sugar order did not bring one, to say, guys, fifty thousand tons, ten thousand tons, in Africa, Zimbabwe, in America, get something to help. But you come here two years later and you blame a government which through the clearer - we talked four days - took the money and gave it away. And she did well. And of course we are voting in favour of the entire bill. So it had to be done to save the jobs and this valuable company. But I have a question. It's not an indictment. This question is this: What have you done as Minister of Development? You brought a sale, a kilo of sugar, a kilo of export? A pound! No one's brought in. I will return a little back to New Democracy and you will forgive me, because we have said a lot about the Greek Sugar Industry and I will close with them, because the situation for me is simple. The New Democracy spoke with amnesia. He spoke as if he had forgotten the memos, as if he did not know that this country to lose all this national income has bleededed. He talked like he was negotiating, he never did. Neither New Democracy nor PASOK, unfortunately, have been negotiating. The negotiations were to put everything into practice, what the lenders told us, and the only helper we had and the only weapon was the media, which from morning until night were smuggling us with what good the government is doing. And redeem everything. And within what it has earned was the Greek industry of Zecharis and its workers, their own and their families, most of whom - and I am addressing the JRC again, and that is what you had to support - are unemployed from the memorandum. It's not the SYRIZA or the Independent Greeks. Their families are unemployed, their children have psychological problems in schools and it's their fault with the Memorandum. It's not my fault, it's not Mrs. Valabani. It's the memorial! Are you laughing, Mrs Manolaku?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u518	Expand it and sign a new one! Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u519	You're excellent people! Yes, excellent! If you'd run one day and tell her that I want her to close tomorrow, because I don't want to give you 30 million, I don't know what the workers, you guys are with the workers. I can't understand it. It's just things, ladies and gentlemen. The viability of a business depends on its cost and how much it sells. Costs have to do with wages and energy costs. I have said that to Mr Lafazani and to my colleague Mrs Valavani in our discussions that we need to see the cost of energy. Who takes so many years to PPC from 20% and 25% cost per kilo of energy costs? We'll drop it, but we have to do something. You can't have 25 cents in 1 euro energy cost and look into the eyes. Also, you can't keep selling. I come to an example, which is like a'short story'. If anyone gets the Greek Sugar Industry tomorrow and tells her "Masters, I have an order for 100 thousand tonnes", do you know what the Greek Sugar Industry will do? It's not fantasy, it's almost real. It will tell me 'I can't give it, because I'm importing it'. The man who has brought an order of fifty thousand tonnes will have a stroke. He will say "I come to help you, save the jobs, save the loans you owe so that they don't "red" and take them". If anyone reads the papers, they'll see it. I mean, I can't be a politician, I'm going crazy! Has anyone seen the guarantees he's given to real estate? Have you in the JRC seen the guarantees given by the Greek Sugar Industry to real estate?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u520	Take care of anyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u521	Why shouldn't I bother about you? You guys want to shut down the company, get thousands of people on the road. Hey, this isn't a job!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u522	Keep a dignity!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u523	I have a lot of dignity. Did you read where 30 million goes? Let me tell you where 30 million goes so that you don't get a selective reading. No one's gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u524	Are you teaching us a lesson?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u525	And I tell Mr. Hatzidakis. Don't make a selective reading. Where's 30 million? 27% goes to only two sugar suppliers. 36% goes to sugar markets. And where's the $10 million going? The P.R.P.A. Where's the 30 million who say they're going to the customs producers? We owe 10 million to the DEPA. Has anyone done anything with the DEPA? Oh, no. Did anyone do anything with the people we import the sugar that I can't get a hundred thousand tons of? So I'm gonna have to get in there and kick them in the slap? How is it going to be in this country? You will learn to read, because here they are being held and practically. So 10 million are being owed to the DEPA. That's where the money went and 900,000 there. Where did the money go? We're writing them. That's right or wrong. Piraeus Bank and I'll testify to it in the Minutes to get it and have the notes on it. I hope you all know Greek in here. Let's go down. Piraeus Bank has given 150 million. It says - and it will be checked for this - that the cost has decreased from 8.5% to 4.5%. That's a good look. He gave another 39 million. Good or bad he gave it away. A colleague said he kept 30,000 or 40,000 interest on a guarantee. It was good. What, he'd give them for free? What is it, Greek public? Would anyone give a free loan of 40 million and owe them another 150 million? Forgive the tension. He kept a warranty, as they say, of EBZ. He kept a guarantee of sugar and kept a check of 2.5 million euros. What else can he do? I'll testify to that, too, because no one has read. I'll remind the New Democracy because the camera gets us all here and we're not artists, what it said in 2011. I have the press release, I will not read it all, but I will testify it and anyone who wants to deal with it and opens a page to read will see what New Democracy said in 2011 about the Greek Sugar Industry. I do not even read the names, because they are ladies and gentlemen. It says: ‘EBZ is very difficult to sell to competitors abroad’. It had to be sold. It says: "The fact that fifty-eight thousand tonnes of national sugar will not be produced in Greece but will be imported from abroad is a serious injury to the Greek region". He says: "If the Greek industry is closed down, the cost of income and employment in the regions that will close the industry will be multiple". He says the company shouldn't be closed. Today the New Democracy came and told us: 'Don't give the money to close'. He also says: "We believe that, for reasons of national interest and of agricultural interest, the remaining factories of the Greek Sugar Industry must continue to operate. At a time when the Greek Sugar Industry is artificially and temporarily in a difficult position, the property regime must not be changed." In other words, in 2011 the Antimony New Democracy told us not to sell it, because the jobs will be lost and the costs will not be closed, because the cost is multiple to get them back to work. Nice to meet you, financial 101, first year! I submit all the documents, long-term and short-term loans, the report of the sworn accountants, what we have received. Whoever wants to read, whoever doesn't want to read. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. What happened, that is, now with the memorials. The Germans, the French, the Poles, and what did they say? You will not produce, you will enter. I repeat the actual fact. In the hundred thousand tons it says: 'I cannot produce, I can import'. Then why do I have you there? To introduce? I'll talk to you about the business plan. That's a real photocopy. Partners have other topics to discuss. The Germans come and sell us sugar like Greek in Greek supermarkets. Friday the pound in Manheim Germany. Postal code 60028. Here's what we're pulling! And remind anyone who sits at some point and presses Google what "DEGREEZ" is. It was the company founded in 1942, founded by the Germans, to do what in Greece? And you're going to tell me what reminds you of today's situation? They put a pimp company in the middle, and what did he do? He underestimated the Greek products that were stolen by the Germans in possession of them to take them to Germany, to sell them cheaply so that the Germans could buy them and overpriced the Germans in Greece. And what did they do that way? Profits kept by the company and paid off Germany's debts. You'll see these in the exams we're in, because we didn't come here to play tombola, we know exactly how the game was set up. And it's set up in the same way. What are they doing to us now? They detested the universe and he tells you "I insert sugar". Excellent! I, in other words, have a manager in an industry who does not want to find a way to produce, through a bank, a state or an investor or any knowledge of the situation. He was excellent, Mr. Potamio's colleague. He knows the job. I know the other one, he knows the other half, maybe we can work together. But it's the other one, I'm sitting outside and criticizing the thirty. Yeah, but I'm a KIC, I, you know, I'm with the people, I'm lifting the banner, but let's go a thousand people, huh, it's okay. It's okay. The JRC, which is forty years old, has done nothing to control the previous governments to bring ten orders so that the employees for whom you are so much tired are not fired? You should be involved. Beyond the banners, read ten numbers. You came here just for criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u526	You're ungodly! You don't even know what you're talking about the JRC. Ungodly!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u527	So the review is over, the red panoramic. You'll say I want the industry to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u528	It hurts you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u529	It's me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u530	It hurt you for what the JRC has done to save the three factories.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u531	Because they're all recorded, the workers today see that you want to fire a thousand and a hundred people and I want to keep them. It's just so simple, it looks both in the Minutes and in the video.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u532	You're a liar too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u533	Liar, slander and ignorant!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u534	The time of the ‘red’ child.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u535	You're a liar, a slander and ignorant! It is said by the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC and written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u536	Very good, it'll all be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u537	Who are you, man, where can you say what you want? You're a liar, a slander and a ignorant!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u538	I am, I am, yes. Let us continue now calmly, because the situation here is simple. We either save the lot and home all together, or we continue to eat public money, that is, mine, yours and everyone. I mean, you gave the banks money to be capitalized. You gave money to the ATE clearer, he gives it to save her, it's your money and mine. It's our money, and you ask me why I give it to you? What should I lose a hundred and fifty? I'm telling you, read how many properties they're mortgaged. What about the bad bank? You want him to take it? So, you're telling me, not to give the money, to shut down the company, to lose all the Sugar properties and lose around the hundred employees. Excellent equation! That's why you're staying at 5%. I love it! I'm closing up with this. They all have to vote and see this job really like they're home, or their business. We can't work on paneria. It is no longer possible for this state to operate on a banner. They'll all sit down, set him up, put the pencil and say they don't come out. And if I listen to someone and tell me that "I've learned to import and I don't want a hundred thousand tons of sugar to save the jobs that the JRC is struggling with", then we'll have a personal problem! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u539	The reason is the special speaker of PASOK, George Arvanitides, for 15 minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u540	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the speaker of the ANELs has been so charged with his position as a result of the anxiety he expressed in saving the batch. But what kind of lot are we talking about? For the lot of sugar or for the lot in the country alone? I think that his concern has to do with all this information in the last few days since yesterday's Eurogroup, which could be termed an indication of what is likely to be going on in our country in the next few days. The referendum, the polls, the red lines in the workplace, the insurance, as they all show, only concern the Greek Government. The European red lines have been added to this, which, if they continue to exist, will lead our country to empty funds in full economic stalemate. Money without reforms is not going to take place, as the partners have made clear in the Eurogroup. And we here today, ladies and gentlemen, share money - except that the money is from the Greek taxpayers - without any reform plan. Just like that, we keep winning impressions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the draft law 'Edditional sustainability regulation' - what an excellent title! '... the Greek Sugar Industry and the due date'. Will the Greek people who listen to us wonder: The viability of the Greek Sugar Industry is guaranteed by an act of legislation and within two articles? Ladies and gentlemen, we must finally end this communication game. A government for the first time, instead of tabling bills on the modernisation and reconstruction of the primary sector, can it be promoted in such a superficial way that not only do they exalt the Greek Sugar Industry, but they lead it to injurious situations that we have all experienced? I would be very happy, Minister, as a man of the market and countryside, if today in this Chamber you tabled a draft law that would lay the foundations for how we will build an extroverted primary sector, how we will strengthen our agricultural dynamics with another model - standard for European and international data, how we will all build a new agricultural policy, competitive in the international environment, which will stimulate the domestic economy and finally allow our country to face up to the economic deadlock in which it is found. In no case do I question the contribution of the Greek Sugar Industry to the productive fabric of the country and the need for this product to be produced by the country. Suddenly, however, the question arises: Is the capital aid of 30m euros to be paid by the Greek Sugar Industry capable of dealing with its financial problem and making it sustainable? So, is the problem solved with this initiative, or, unfortunately, as always, do we try to fill a well without bottom? As far as we have been informed in committee, the Greek Sugar Industry's short-term obligations are about 48m euros. Of the 30 million you're going to give, a percentage less than 10% will be given to customs producers and to customs distributors. The rest will be given to Serbian subsidiaries, to the PPC, to the "TRAINOSE" which is probably making the transfer of the company. Here too there are various issues which I shall refer to in greater detail in the debate on the subject. Minister, reconstruction is not only created by capital resources but also by capital ideas. These ideas have not been seen by you so far by the bills you have submitted, which show your intentions. I do not see any plan organised either for which this country is facing a problem or for its central problem that is negotiating. I would like to make two comments here. Observation first: every week we expect the disputed agreement to be concluded with the partners. Every weekend we live moments of national optimism, which at the beginning of the week is tempered and then, mid-weeks, ends up in national pessimism. So this agreement, as is apparent from the current actions by the Government, until 30 June of the end of our loan agreement, will be suspended. How, then, can you promote capital aid, tax-exemptive measures, when you have not guaranteed the self-evident, smooth funding for the country? Observation second, on a point of order: we have heard several times from the President of Parliament, from the beginning of this Parliamentary period constantly stressing that acts of legislation must never be deposited. Also, the Prime Minister, as Chief of Staff Responsibility, was constantly talking about the previous government's coup with the legislative acts and said in this Chamber that it would abolish them. He also often underlined that no draft law in the form of urgency will pass on to their own term of office. So far, except for the ERT bill, the entire legislative procedure of the House has been carried out in the form of urgency and legislative acts. That is why we are talking about speeches and actions. And you bring the President of the Republic into a difficult position when you ask him to sign such actions. Ladies and gentlemen, you who are evangelizing progress, change, hope, in this draft law, do indeed give hope. Do you know who? To the great ones, and I'll explain what I want to say. On 20 March, we, PASOK, also voted on the arrangements for the relaunching of the economy, so as to give thousands of households and businesses the opportunity to regulate in a hundred instalments of debts that were unable to repay. We disagreed on the abolition of the one million-dollar plaque. You said this was about eighty-six cases of debtors, with more than 1 million. You have not only broken the cap of one million, but you have thus enabled the fines submitted on the basis of n to be deleted. 2523/1997, not only to taxpayers who because of financial incapacity in this crisis were unable to pay their obligations, but also to tax seekers of the previous decade, to those who have committed offences of particular tax evasion, to fake virtual invoices, to conceal income, to defraud the tax authorities, to prevent tax controls, to operate circuits with false tax numbers, to collect VAT refunds. With Article 1b, which you claim to be trying to correct tax loose ends, we would like to remind you that all those who are unable to repay their tax obligations can join the hundred-dollar arrangement. But you don't go save them alone. You're trying to relieve the debtors, without terms and rules from what source and where each debt comes from. At some point I think it would be useful, Minister, to bring real economic information about exactly what you are giving up, and at the end of the regulation what was the amount, how many were involved and what was the result of this arrangement. The SYRIZA Government - ANEL is promoting these changes. A government, which raised a small, pre-electional and post-election, to combat corruption, interlocutory, tax evasion. In all of this, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot consent. PASOK supported n. 4321/2015 and tried to contribute to its formation, even though it was discussed under the urgency procedure, without getting substantial answers to a number of issues, especially as regards how to deal with the great debts. The regulation of the legislative act favours us with no rules and no tax relief. It is cultivating in society and in thousands of our fellow citizens, who are listening once again to distrust. This is, of course, the problem of the Greek tax system. That is why we are voting against this draft law in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK would be voting in favour of a draft law that would strengthen customs production, promote innovative ideas and solutions for the production of sugar beet and create the country's production reconstruction. We can no longer, when the country is in this economic deadlock, give 30m euros in order not to close, as you say, the Greek Sugar Industry - nobody in this Chamber wants this development - but we have not taken care of the next day of the operation of the Greek Sugar Industry, so that this operation will cease to taste bitterly for taxpayers who will ultimately pay 30m euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u541	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. Before we resolve the meeting, we need to regulate two very serious things. The first is that, because we are having a single debate - and in principle and on articles -, because thirty-three speakers have been written and, given that tomorrow afternoon at 18: 00, a special sitting has been set, very serious, in the plenary session, the debate must be completed and the bill adopted by 16: 00.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u542	Until 17:00, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u543	No, Mr. Petrako. Tomorrow's sitting is special. Plenary must be prepared, because there will be translators because the Greek Parliament welcomes the survivors of the nuclear Holocausts of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, who flee to the "Peace Ship" that arrives tomorrow. I therefore propose two things: the first is to limit the speaking time to six minutes, and the second is that there should be a restraint of the parliamentary representatives, but also a limitation on the time that has been set. And if we do well, and we don't have any more problems, I think we'll be able to finish in six hours exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u544	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u545	You're welcome, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u546	I am not, of course, empowered to speak on behalf of the New Democracy, but as rapporteur, I would like to say to you, firstly, that we did not - none of the rapporteurs - some of the amendments. So we should somehow ensure that the rapporteurs talk about the amendments tomorrow. I do not know what other Members will do, but the rapporteurs must certainly speak. Secondly, I would like to say something even more 'advanced', if we can come on Thursday. As, as far as I know, on Thursday there is no plenary sitting, if tomorrow it is not possible to finish the sitting by 16.00, it can be expected that it will continue on Thursday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u547	Good, Mr. Koutsukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u548	Madam President, for the special sitting tomorrow and its importance we agree. Now take note of this. In the way you have said that, the rapporteurs will not be able to speak on the articles. We could address this by unifying the debate, but there is also the question of the amendments tabled by Mr Hatzidakis. Therefore, at some point in the process you must give the floor to the rapporteurs to put them in more detail - many people have said so - on the articles and on the amendments, while continuing on the list. And if the Members who have declared themselves to speak, plus the procedure of the Parliamentary Representatives, etc., at 16 noon, not to have finished, the Bureau could have decided to conclude the debate on Thursday. Because I think that in an act of legislation which comes after a month and a half to be ratified, depriving Members of the floor, precisely because we have time limitation, it is wrong. That's a first estimate. Let the Bureau see it and solve it tomorrow. We don't have to solve this tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u549	Mrs Valavani has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u550	There is a problem: The amendments, which are being discussed tomorrow, namely a number of them, at least for most of them, are related to tax declarations, which must be opened - that is, we want them to open - on Thursday. To open Thursday, the process must be completed tomorrow. Otherwise, there is no such possibility. I would ask you very much to do everything we can, even a little, to take it by 17.00 hours, so that the procedure can be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u551	Good. Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u552	Madam President, in addition to the fact that one amendment in particular must be brought to an end tomorrow - it is the one which concerns farmers, you all know it - the other thing I have to say is that the two articles are essentially the rapporteurs and the speakers. There are not many articles here to say that we are going to have a special debate. We're between us now. In the debate, therefore, the rapporteurs will definitely place themselves on the articles and the amendments within the time that I think we can find them. But we have to finish, because it's urgent, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u553	Well, then, I think that after the explanations given, we have to finish tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u554	Excuse me, Madam President. If the first speakers are here, now can the three - four of us say that we are starting at 9:30, so that we can get some time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u555	Yeah, but there's no one here. I say this. If a procedure is held tomorrow, with the possibility of putting the rapporteurs on the amendments - alas, Mr Kutsukouko, we are not discussing this - but with a restriction and with good management, we can end tomorrow at around 16.00 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-12-S1-commons.u556	With the consent of the House at noon 1:00 the meeting for Wednesday, 13 May 2015 at 10: 00' on the subject of the body's work: the continuation of the debate on the principle, the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance: the "Statement of the Act of Legislative Content" of 27 March 2015 on the sustainability of the "Greek Sugar Industry S.A." and the outstanding debts" (A'35).
