ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 6-4-2015, the minutes of its sitting on Monday, 6 April 2015 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] First of all, many years. Secondly, we have scheduled for today at 10 a.m. the opening of the meeting to discuss a very serious and important bill from the Ministry of Justice. Under the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and Rule 24, the House may not decide without an absolute majority of Members present, which may not be less than the total number of Members. In the event of a tie, the vote shall be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, what can we decide? There is no question of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u3	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u4	At the moment it is 10.52 seconds and in the Chamber there are fifty-seven Members, i.e. the quorum has not been completed. We will be interrupting for ten minutes in order to complete the quorum, because with fifty-seven Members the debate cannot begin. Let the parliamentary groups take care of it. [[Noise - protests from the wing of the New Democracy and the PASOK]] We're interrupting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. I am pleased that colleagues have responded to the call for the quorum to be completed and I would ask that the plenary be with Members present and present. It cannot begin without a quorum, and the Bureau cannot expect the quorum to be completed at any time. So I would ask all the groups very much to ensure that there is a quorum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u6	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u7	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u8	I will give you the floor, just let me start the meeting. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion at first, of the articles...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u9	I would like to speak on a point of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u10	I'll give you the floor. If you want, do not interrupt the opening of the meeting. I don't think anyone's complaining that he wasn't given the floor. The only debate on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law: "Reforms of criminal law, repealing the press detention stores and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents met on 2 April 2015, i.e. at a time when the draft law had not been finalised. It has already decided then that any bill completed in a debate in the committees up to Tuesday Easter would be introduced into a debate today and tomorrow, Thursday and Friday 16 and 17 April, and given that the requirement was met, that the debate be completed by Tuesday in Easter, the date of the meeting is set today and tomorrow, with the prediction that we should have two to three meetings. That is why, and in order to enable all Members of Parliament to sit down and have a real debate, three meetings were set up, today's morning, the evening sitting, 18.00 p.m., and tomorrow's sitting at 12.00 p.m. which we can consider, but to begin earlier. I would like to make it clear that the Rule of Procedure, which provides for the issue of the agenda in this way, applies when the draft law is finalised in the committee by means of invasive sittings on holiday days, as was the case in this case. Let me inform you of the procedure, followed by the first debate, which will begin at this first sitting. I propose that the Members speak first, that the bill should be discussed at the beginning of the morning sitting, that there should be an interruption at 7 p.m. or at 16.00 p.m. - depending on the number of speakers - and at the afternoon sitting and tomorrow's debate on the articles. I would remind you at first of all - and I have said it again - that Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure applies. The debate in principle refers exclusively to the purpose and content of the bill. First of all, the Minister is recommending to the Minister and then the rapporteurs, the special speakers and finally the Members who have joined the list of speakers in the first reading, in accordance with Articles 64(2) and 95(2). The list of speakers is signed from the beginning and until the end of the speech by the rapporteurs. I would like to make it clear once again that although the rapporteurs are in fact all the representatives of the parties - and I think that we should treat them equally - the need for the Rules of Procedure applies the narrow concept of the rapporteur, i.e. the first two rapporteurs. So keep in mind that listing will take place by the end of Mr Kikilia's position. The first two rapporteurs are Mrs Catrivanou from SYRIZA and Mr Kikilias from New Democracy. Therefore, registration will begin at the beginning of the Minister's suggestion and will end with Mr. Kikilia's suggestion. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The debates in principle are governed by the Rules of Procedure and, accordingly, by Rules 64, 97 and 98 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I suggest that we take account of the number of registered members. What usually happens is that a lot of people are enrolled in the first debate and usually an arrangement is made, so that at the time of the vote at the beginning of the bill, either they are either resigned or retired as speakers in the actual debate. This, of course, cannot be done without an agreement. I therefore think we will appreciate the progress made in the list of speakers at the end of the sitting - to say at 16.00 a.m., with a view to stopping from 16.00 a.m. to 18.00 a.m. and reopening at 18.00 a.m. I would remind you that we have the Conference of Presidents at 16 a.m., so all Vice-Presidents and the President, as well as the parliamentary representatives, must be at the conference. I therefore propose that we assess the list and that a decision be taken at that time on how to proceed with the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u11	What about the hour when we lost what's going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u12	First of all, I should like to remind you that Parliamentary representatives have been appointed by SYRIZA by Olga Gerovasili, from the New Democracy by Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Mr Ioannis Lagos, from the Potamis, from the Antigone Lympakakis, from the Communist Party of Greece, from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, from the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mayranis and from the PASOK Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos. Rapporteurs and special speakers have been appointed, respectively, by SYRIZA, by Vassilis Katrivanos, by New Democracy Mr. Vassilis Kikilis, by the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Despina Sveroni - Chondronasios, by Potamis Iason Fotilis, by the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas, by the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokalis and by PASOK, by PASOK, Gennimata. I suggest we get into the conversation, unless there's any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u13	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u14	The floor has been asked for the parliamentary representatives by Mr Mitsotakis from New Democracy and Mr Koutsoukos from PASOK. Mr Mitsotakis, you have the floor, I suppose, on a point of order, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u15	Madam President, once again you are violating the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, which in Rule 24 states that the House cannot decide without an absolute majority of the Members present. Nowhere does the Rules of Procedure stipulate that the sitting cannot be opened if the Chamber is not 1/4 of Members. That's your interpretation. And, in any case, if you wanted to make this nice show, which you once again did here in Parliament, why didn't you do it at 10 a.m.? Come at 10 a.m., keep at last the beginning of the procedure and state that there are no Members here! You will not put your own delay on the Members' back! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, in any case, because we are talking about a bill which also contains an article on bullying, we do not accept bullying, Madam President, from you as Members of the New Democracy. At last stand still and understand that you are the President of the whole Parliament and, above all, with your term of office, do not take time from the Members! Why do you know what will happen now with this hour, which we have lost? Who will pay for it, Madam President, your delay? The ordinary Members who will not be able to speak! Well, that's enough of it. From now on, we demand that the meetings begin on time and do not put your systematic delay on board to the Members!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, unfortunately, your systemically delayed attendance in plenary poses many problems in the parliamentary procedure and is in danger of facilitating it, and much more so in your absence and at the time of waiting for confrontations, without any serious reason, among the Members - those who are unpunished and begging for the opening of the sitting and those who are prepared to justify you. If, Madam President, you have very serious obligations at the time when the House is scheduled to begin, I would ask you very much to instruct the excellent Vice-Presidents of this House to ensure that the plenary is opened. This is permitted by the Rules of Procedure and has been standard practice. I do not understand why you alone decide and interpret the Rules of Procedure. If you wanted to raise a quorum, you had to be here at 10 a.m., go with the academic fourth at 10.15 p.m. and find out whether there is a quorum and, in particular, decide as a House. Because you are the President of this House, you are not the President of a single body and no authoritarian regime. You are essentially insulting your fellow Members, a Parliament which is democratically elected and which has elected you in a democratic way to preside over and not to carry out your duties authoritarianly. So we would ask you once again - I do so for the third time - to find a way to deal with it. There are too many ways of democratically legitimized and by the practice of the House. As far as the legislative procedure is concerned, there are several points which I do not want to be, since we have reached the House, namely, as regards strict observance of the Rules of Procedure in relation to the deadlines from the first reading and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are interested in taking the floor today as many Members as possible. That is why we would ask you to recommend that the Co-Presidents concerned speak after them under the Rules of Procedure on the basis of the list of six or seven Members of Parliament, to limit their interventions...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u18	Madam President, stop the bell from listening to the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u19	... and in particular not to take the floor before the speeches of my fellow Members and, in particular, those of the Rules begin to take the lead, so that we can get time, have the debate smoothly and put on the substance. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Mr Koutsouko, because this is the third time you are talking about 'Istanbul time' and because at a previous sitting, when we started parliamentary control by four Members, you came to the Chair and asked me if you had time for a coffee, I would ask you to observe at least a few rules. Because seeking to come late, and then scouting the president, I think it's an exaggeration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u21	That's not there!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u22	That's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u23	This is not the gas station in Ethiopia, Mrs. Konstantopoulou! This is a House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u24	Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u25	I got permission to drink coffee. What am I supposed to do? From there on, I won't do it again! I'm not drinking coffee again at the meeting time! I'll be all hours in, and I'm very grateful to you for taking them away from me and cutting my salary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u26	In any event, the Rules of Procedure stipulate that when there are more than five unjustified absences during the month, the Members' compensation is cut. And I have told you that the Rules of Procedure will apply. Deal? Now, I have no more comment. Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u27	We realise that it is also necessary for the whole story to be heard every time, and I say from everyone before you could applaud it. Why, look, it is unacceptable indeed to start an hour and a quarter later, but do not become honorers. I mean, mercy. We're in the House. And when you were, weren't they? When did Parliament begin 10 o'clock?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u28	No, never! I say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u29	Please see the program, see how many delays...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u30	Ask me where I did the vice presidents' shifts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u31	Now, look, there's plenty of TV to find out all this stuff. We therefore say that we consider the delay to be unacceptable, we believe that there is an opportunity for everyone to take part in television and the fact is that there is a debate on the procedure and that time is wasted, which is essential and valuable for Members to speak. As far as I am concerned, Madam President, the eighty, you say, is one of the unwritten ones in my village. That's the first time we've heard of it. If you are going to put an announcement and we are all going to agree that if we are not here eighty-six Members, the plenary will not begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u32	Seventy-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u33	That applies only to the votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u34	We consider this to be at least excessive, not to say another serious word and not to use the word hypocritical with all the other incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u35	Mr Pafile, I am not saying this in Rule 24: 'The House cannot decide without an absolute majority of the Members present, which can also not be less than 1/4 of the total number of Members'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u36	But not to meet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u37	Read the next sentence!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u38	1/4 of the total number of Members is seventy-five and in the process of starting a bill, as you know, Parliament always decides on the procedure and the meetings. We always make a decision. Therefore, such a decision cannot be taken without a quorum. And we should all be disciplined. And our citizens have elected to be here, not to be here. It is not unacceptable that we should be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u39	You're not on time. Are you making comments to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u40	Are you making any comments?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u41	Please give the floor to Mr. Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u42	But, well, are you serious? When all the parliamentary representatives from all the parties agree on the procedure, we must have eighty? What's that? Where are we?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u43	But you see that they don't agree, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u44	When they don't agree, there are...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u45	We are already having a 20-minute discussion on the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u46	Madam President, there are the majority that no one disputes. If three or four parties agree, or the government itself, there is the principle of declared. How can we say it? And, secondly, if your understanding is - and you and others - that Members must be shut down from morning to night in the House, we disagree radically. It must be close to the people and Parliament, of course, when it needs to be here. So, what happens now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u47	That's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u48	I do not know whether the Members agree in this House, and that is whether social problems should be given up all day in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u49	They may have to deal with resolving them through the House with legislation. But, of course, parliamentarians must be next to the citizens and in society. It is therefore important that Parliament does not meet vigilantly and give the Members the right and the margin. On the other hand, when the House legislates, Members cannot be elsewhere, because some people have sent us here so that we can sit and vote and speak. Mr Ioannis Ragos has been asked for the floor from the Golden Dawn and Mrs Antigone Lyberakis from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u50	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u51	I give the floor in the order that has been requested and that is why we have broken the order of the parties. Secondly, Mr Koutsoukos spoke, while he is seventh, and then Mr Pafilis. Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u52	Madam President, because we are discussing a bill here, we are discussing democratic and human sensitivities, and I am listening to this House as much time as we are talking about the laws that must apply, and I would like to stress once again here that there is the greatest violation of law in Parliament. Three MPs elected by the Golden Dawn – Giorgos Germenis, Nikos Kouzulos and Ilias Cassidiris - would like to be present here, they had declared to be speakers and lacked "them" the right to speak. We are talking about the licenses that each terrorist can get and about the human rights that each criminal, every rapist, every illegal immigrant, the legitimately elected MP of the Golden Dawn, but he cannot be here. We call for the Golden Dawn right now - the Minister is here - to intervene and make these people come either this afternoon or tomorrow, so that they can attend and say their views. This is the democracy we live in. You put us in jail unjustly. At least, let these people be here. If - I said it again yesterday, I will say it again today - your votes count otherwise and ours count otherwise, you can tell us to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u53	Mrs Liberaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u54	Madam President, I am not interested in television show, and I certainly think we should have as much time as we can for Members and Members. However, I think there is a fundamental issue and the question of the accuracy at the start of the sittings I think it is a matter of substance, of political ethos and, frankly, of course, I think that there should be an effort from you too. I understand that in your office you may look at how many people are in this House. It is, however, much better for the spirit of cooperation within the House to be in your seat and to start on time. As for the time of the start - 10.00 in the morning - it has been known since last week that there was a Committee on Social Affairs, which is also very crowded. I went over there, but I couldn't stay, because I had to be here. At least if you arranged to start at 11:00, it would be better. I would therefore say in future that it does not coincide with committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u55	I fully agree, Mrs Lyberakis, that the committees should not coincide with Parliament. That's the pursuit all this time. Unfortunately, for today this has not been possible. For tomorrow, when there is a committee again at 10 a.m., we identified the debate at 12 noon. However, I am sure, because there are already requests from all the groups in Parliament, that we should be asked to meet earlier, because too many Members will want to leave sooner. I say this to be fair and clear. On the other hand, I will tell you this: as I am also the President of the Parliament, the image is'majority approved' by three Members, who are silent, this House will not repeat it. It is traumatic for both parliamentarians and the Republic. Mrs. Gerovali has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I asked the floor before to ask my fellow Members to stop, because we do not really disagree with the procedure, and to proceed with it. We have a major bill in front of us. We're gonna need a lot of time. Let us make it easier and not to create issues, when they are not necessary and when they are not necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u57	We lost her an hour?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mrs Gerovali for the twenty seconds she spoke. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Nicos Paradropoulos, Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, to suggest at the beginning of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, taking the floor, I would like to refer to the point of order, which has emerged previously and which is definitely the case with the Ministry of Justice. I have avoided and will always avoid taking a position on specific and personal issues. But, generally speaking, I believe that at critical meetings and issues of the House, prisoners should be allowed to attend. The bill, which is being discussed today, has as its central theme the conditions in Greek prisons and the congestion of the prisoners in them. This issue has in many cases been addressed by the Greek Parliament and by the Greek society over the last few decades. There are legislative works and products without success. I think one reason for the failure of the previous attempts is that it was not about the largest population of prisons, which are the prisoners with criminal felonies. Now in our prisons, prisoners are few. This is trying to see carefully and correct this bill. I must say that an additional opportunity to draw up and recommend this bill is the fact that our country has now faced an international pressure on this issue. Pressure exists by the UN, which in 2009 called on at least the prisoners, who have special health problems, to be treated with faster redundancies. We have this problem here in our country. A major problem for our country is the European Commission's reports on the tortures, the well-known CPT, which is now in our country from the day before yesterday, to check the conditions in Greek prisons. So we have anguish about her findings. This committee has recently reminded us that the most serious observation it can make is the public declaration against a country, if it does not cooperate to improve the conditions. This principle has in its history six times used the 'weapon' of the public declaration, twice for Turkey, three times for Russia - in the case of Chechnya - and once for our country in 2011. It refers specifically to its statement on the overpopulation of prisons, lack of medical care, lack of staff and inhumane detention conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u60	Minister, excuse me. I would ask colleagues not to speak loudly and so clearly. Please, anyone who wants to talk can come out of Ethiopia, Mr. Gregorakos, Mr. Constantinople, Mrs. Gennamas, and have the conversation outside. It is appalling for the speaker to have this permanent turbulence. Please! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. Also, our country already has to face financial convicts of the European Court of Justice of the detention conditions and the failure to treat the detainees. Since the year 2011, the sentences have been eleven and our country has to pay for them 1,423,000 euros plus interest. I am arguing not because it should have been the heaviest. The heaviest thing is that our country has these conditions, which largely embarrass its culture. However, because many are more used to looking after the economic argument than others, I would like to add that, apart from these approximately EUR 2 000 000, which we have to pay for convicts of prison conditions on the basis of 11 judgments, at the moment in the European Court of Justice there are a hundred and ninety cases pending on the same subject. I must tell you that the European Court of Justice, because of our country's past, attaches priority to these cases. Apart from the international bodies, which are very careful to see the conditions in our country's prisons, I must remind those who were present that at the hearing of bodies held during the work of the relevant parliamentary committee, the bodies who came to their large majority in favour of the bill. Of the fifteen present, thirteen were emphatically in favour of the bill. And I would remind you that they are bodies in charge and in relation to representation with many other members working within them or who benefit from their services, such as the Citizens' Counselor, anti-drugs' organisations, the Guardian Federation, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the Association of Prosecutors, the Association of Adult Scientists. Many other agencies have come. There have been only two of the fifteen, and they certainly have been constructive and careful. Going to the contents of the bill, I would like to say that the guidelines are two. One is improving prison conditions, improving detention conditions. This includes the change in the type III penitentiary and the change in the incarceration of adults. The second part of the bill serves to dismantle through reasoned and rated redundancies. I have to say first of all that some amendments have been accepted in the committee during the course of the work. Of course, one is my amendment - and I am not saying that it has been accepted - and it concerns the possibility of detaining the persons concerned at home during the proceedings. The other two came from Vice-Population MPs. One concerns the division of Article 2 of the draft law, which is broad and relates to all the provisions contained in the Criminal Code. Article 2 has been broken and it can be voted on in part of its arrangements. This has, of course, led to a general reform in the bill necessarily. The last proposal that has been submitted and accepted by myself, and which has been tabled, is the proposal on electronic surveillance of disabled detainees who will be kept at home if the relevant conditions are met. I'm going through the contents of the bill. I would like to clarify some misunderstandings, which are clear to me that they have taken place so far, according to what I have heard and during the work in the parliamentary committee. One misunderstanding is that this bill suggests humanism in absentia or at the expense of security. It's a mistake. This bill also strengthens humanity in prisons and security. As an example, I mention the proposal to abolish type III prisons, which leads us to the regime for high-security warheads scattered in the country. I will explain in more detail that the regime of scattered detention in wards for many reasons is far safer than concentration in an area. However, I would like to say something else, referring to a book which has been mentioned many times during the work of the committee. Michel Fukow in his book "Conservation and Punishment" reminds - and emphatically points it out - that relapse to the crime is a kind of revenge for criminals on the bad conditions of their detention. This means that if detention conditions improve, we have lower relapse rates, less crime, more security. More humanism, therefore, and more security, because people who come out of human conditions do not commit themselves to the same statistically high rates as those in the reverse. Another question: Why so much importance for this bill? I think it would be enough to list all the international organisations that are morally and judicially condemning us to see how urgent this is. I would remind you that even at the moment the Committee on the Control of Torture is here. However, I would like to say this in general terms: the insults of human dignity, mistreatment, degrading behaviour - that is the reason for Article 3 - the major proposal on which we are convicted - cannot wait. The insult of dignity is not like a broken merchandise, for which we are happy or happy if it relates to three species, not four, or if the goods that are damaged are 100 and not two hundred. Every case of a violation of dignity for our culture, for our country is normal, and we must not hear any more. In addition, I would like to say that an argument, which, too, sounds reasonable and has been supported on several occasions, is why there should be redundancies and not have improved conditions of care in prisons. That makes sense. That is what we want and we are trying to do, and we have tried to upgrade care conditions to prisons and nursing and child detention conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, however, this has been an attempt for decades by Greek society. For decades there has been talk of creating a modern nursery within our penitentiary system or upgrading the conditions of child detention. We're trying. Would it be possible to achieve what has not been achieved for decades, within a few months? It's impossible. In fact, under conditions of economic crisis, with which we will fight, they are at least making it very difficult, with which the situation will improve. We could not, therefore, have had a moral right to say that what has been unsuccessful for decades, we will try to do so as quickly as possible and until then be in unworthy conditions for our prisoners. It was said that the bill was fragmentary. Sure. This is not a reform of the Penal Code or the Criminal Code. These are some provisions. But there is cohesion. There is a central issue that I have announced at the outset and I will not repeat. In any case, I would remind you that this bill has rules which look in particular at the conditions of detention or the quickest dismissal of detainees belonging to categories such as minors, elderly people, patients, disabled, drug-dependent and hosted foreigners, whose sentence is over, but still in the cells. So cohesion exists. I have heard a number of other things, which are clearly unfounded, that "you're dismissing them all", 'you're pulling them all out.' It is obvious, at the reading of the bill, that the arrangements are classified, that they relate to different categories of prisoners, that they provide a time limit for the stay in prison before redundancies are implemented, that there are implementing guarantees for the period after dismissal, but also for enforcement guarantees, since we have judicial crises for their enforcement. This is not, therefore, an abrupt dismissal - all, but a balanced conditional dismissal policy, which has always been implemented in our country. What has the Criminal Code been swornly predicted since 1950? The policy of redundancies. And from time to time we also have special arrangements, when there are special needs, which usually bring in some lighter circumstances for dismissal. I would add that it has been said - and through the work of this House - that this bill contains photographic provisions. Of course, I am not talking about the press, where this argument has been widely circulated. I would therefore like to tell you that, whenever reforms are made in our legislation, or which are aimed at decriminalisation, some prisoners are always favoured, because either there will be a more rapid limitation on dismissal, or there will be an immediate dismissal on account of the decriminalisation which occurs. If we wanted to have no provisions, which seem to relate to certain specific categories, then we should never have lightening reforms. Relief reforms always lead to some redundancies. So this is not the case, that is to say, whether certain categories are favoured by the legislation, but whether they are photographic regulations, that is to say, if they concern only one case. The criticism relates in particular to the regulation on disabled isovitas. The same criticism has also been heard of the amendment, which I tabled on the possibility of detaining the persons concerned at home. I shall therefore refer to these two specific regulations. The first concern for the disabled refers to two people who are with this high disability rate, 80%, at the Korydalos nursing shop. However, it concerns - as has been completed and clarified by the Guardian Federation and by me in the same committee debate - and an estimated number of detainees in hospitals in other parts of the country. The same rule also applies not only to those who have been in Greek prisons today, disabled people, with a disability rate of over 80%, who have completed the ten years, but also to those who now have eight or nine years and who will benefit more quickly if the other conditions are met. Therefore, the favoured are many. I hope that the provision will be long-term, so it will involve others in the future. The provision concerning the possibility of the Council having a judicial judgment and not by regulation, which, according to the bill, is compulsory and automatic, imposes the detention at home instead of the temporary detention of the persons concerned who are accused and who have committed their action by a sense of obligation to the defendants, as you can see, can only relate to a large number of defendants who are conscientious to the Greek courts. You know it's a lot of people. I also imagine that it is easy to assume how many people can get together in the future. A regulation which seeks to guarantee a judicial judgement relates to a very large number of cases - I would say, an innumerable number of cases - and in no case can it be called photographic. However, I would like to say something else on this point. Assuming that a lightning arrangement concerned only one man who is tortured and who is under abuse and humiliation, what would we say? Would we not, because this arrangement only concerns one man who is tormented? Is there ever a possibility that an international body will not adopt a regulation, because perhaps the beneficiaries are few, when this regulation is legally and culturally necessary? I would say that some of these arrangements involve a dialogue with terrorists, criminals and other rebels. I would like to say that most of the arrangements, which this bill contains, were proposed before any reaction or mobilisation exists at the moment in Greek society or in prisons. The bill was first drawn up and then the reactions appeared. We have, however, two adjustments of the bill, which have indeed had timely reports and have not been drawn up on the basis of constant needs. One is the amendment of Article 312 of the Criminal Code on constant cruelty - it has been combined with the term bullying, not by me - and the other is the regulation on the temporary detention of relatives, for which I have already spoken to you. Indeed, here we have had timely reports on legislation that did not lead to photographic provisions, because it concerns many. Is it the first time that we have regulations, which introduce exceptions and introduce legislation based on social demands of the time? Is it an unprecedented issue of dialogue with prisoners or of dialogue with rebels anywhere? I would remind you that in 1990 - the 1980s was a period, of course, of occupations and demonstrations, we were in that climate - there was a major uprising in Korydalos prisons. The uprising resulted in prisoners taking over prisons, setting fires, refusing to leave if the Minister did not enter into dialogue with them. And then the press was to a large extent calling "Police in prison", "It is incomprehensible to dialogue with the double criminals", criminals because they are inside the prison and criminals because they are uprooted there and commit crimes again. An inspired and cultivated Minister of the New Democracy, who was then Minister of Justice, Athanasios Kanellepoulou, closed his ears to the sirens called "To get the police in to solve the problem" and had a dialogue with the prisoners. How did he do it? He called representatives of the prisoners at the Ministry of Justice and spoke to them - five were. One, at least as I remember, was a homicide. Athanasios Canellepoulou bought them pizzas. Talk to them. Then, as a product of dialogue, a draft law was drawn up which dealt with one of the issues of prisoners. Some of these arrangements were accepted then and some later were later made by another bold Justice Minister, George Kouvelakis. In 1996 we had the same phenomenon, occupied by insurgent prisoners. We had the same scene, i.e. pressure from both the field of politics and the media for police intervention at St. Stephanos Patras. The then Minister of Justice, Evangelos Venizelos, in his honor, instead of asking the police to enter Patras prisons, held a dialogue with the prisoners who were rebellious. He sent his representatives. In the car he went to Patras to discuss it was MP Andreas Loverdes. There's been a conversation with the Patras prisoners. A piece of legislation emerged, n. 2408/1996, who accepted most of the demands from the detainees. This law, ladies and gentlemen, has become a reality, because its rules have been in force so far and have been welcomed by both the responsible and the Greek society. The same is true of previous arrangements that began with Athanasios Canellepoulou and ended up with Georgios Kouvelakis. So these apply to date and are welcome, and they are an example of the fact that the arrangements, which are put in place and voted, are recognised or not on the basis of their content and not of whether or not they have been discussed previously. And, in any case, I do not understand in Greek culture, in today's world culture how dialogue can appear as something insensitive. When I referred to the 'dialogue' even with the 'gullars', I supplemented 'if so we can avoid violence'. In all the references made to this phrase, the second part is deleted and only the condemnation of the dialogue remains. I would ask you very carefully to look at this piece of legislation and I am at your disposal in the debate on explanations or any other result resulting from the debate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much for the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, both for his report and for its content. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Vassilis Katrivanos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is entitled 'Reforms of criminal provisions, abolition of detention stores and other provisions'. But I think it would have been more appropriate to have written, as has been said in the press, that the bill we are discussing today is the bill that wants to put an end to shame or rather to shame, because shame is a lot. We are talking about prisons, which are for those of us who know them - and many of us are constantly visiting them - are prisons that despair disabled people, which make the sickest people more ill, who enslave the drug addicts and are always stigmatizing the lives of young children. They're prisons where there are over-aged people. I've met a man who's over ninety-two years old with dementia, who's forgotten why he's in prison. They are prisons that "hospitable" foreign immigrants who have fulfilled their sentence and have finished this, and because they cannot be deported, they remain there for up to eighteen months. So this bill is essentially a breath of humanity, a breath of law and rationality. And, as all the institutions have said, this treatment of overpopulation, under the conditions that it enters, is absolutely essential to set up any further structural intervention in the penitentiary system which is being examined, progresses and is a commitment of the Ministry. I would say that for us it is a great relief, because we have seen, as Mr Zacharias has said - with which we are going together to visits - that people are being tortured. In prison there is torture in every way. That is why, as the Minister said, we have been condemned several times by the European Court of Justice. At the moment we have fines of about 2,000,000, which we could certainly have exploited in order to improve the conditions in the Greek prisons, rather than continue to pay the "cabbanes". It would be a brave synchronisation to follow the European project, what the European Court of Justice says, since we want to follow the framework established by Europe when it defends rights and justice. Nowadays, the CPT is visiting our country - the European Commission against Torture and Inhuman Treatment - and drafts the new report. All the reports he has done are extremely burdensome for our country. So the bill comes on its way for too many reasons and so that we don't lose any more lives with suicide. This bill would leave a cancer patient with 80% disability, who didn't get a chance to die in prison? The emergency is the people who are leaving, it's the torture of people in there. This is the urgency, and these are fixed positions of the SYRIZA, but also of the entire legal world, which is in agreement with this, because we have heard it from the institutions. So this bill - which also consists of fixed positions of the SYRIZA and had announced it - abolishes Type III prisons, which are essentially prisons for the extermination of people, for the reduction of rights. They have nothing to do with prison and nothing to do with security. As has been seen by European experience, these prisons increase relapse, increase violence between prisoners and between penitentiaries and detainees, increase strife, corruption and crime. This bill effectively restricts the detention of minors and replaces it with reformist and educational measures. This is a crucial issue for us, because we are not stigmatising the minor. On the other hand, as a state, we help to be able to rely on and reformed by teaching and psychosocial support in appropriate structures, which the bill provides for their establishment. We cannot let them into these circumstances until these structures are completed and we recognise that these structures must be done immediately. It favours, under specific conditions, the dismissal of vulnerable groups, such as elderly people, patients, disabled people, whose detention worsens their health. Anyone who has visited the prison hospital, a hospital, where it has led to suicides and self-determination, which has infrastructure for seventy people and is more than two hundred of what is in there, with little staff, has appalled the conditions that people live there, has been embarrassed. Same with the psychiatric hospital. I, when I was in prison psychiatric, think it took me a long time to get together, because the more diagnosed patients were in the psychiatric hospital, the more stacked they were in incomprehensible cells, left without getting up, with psychopharmaceuticals, abandoned by fate, without a permanent psychiatrist. Shame is the most painless feeling I can share with you. Also, we don't have a psychiatric hospital and a women's hospital. What are these people gonna do? Will they stay in there until new structures are created? And we have received this! The bill also lays down more favourable conditions for the dismissal of detainees and for the immediate treatment of the overpopulation of prisons. This is a standing tactic that many governments do and it has been done many times before. At the moment there are nine hundred seventy-nine isovites. One, that is to say, the twelve prisoners is an equal. We have a record for Europe. We have the largest number of isovirates in all of Europe. That's what's gonna happen once. It's a common practice. It also provides for arrangements for the more favourable implementation of the law that we voted on in this House, the so-called Rupakiotis law, which prejudges the treatment and dismantling of people who are toxic-dependent instead of stigmatising them. Because we have contacts with KETHES, with OKANA and other communities, I would like to say that we have heard shocking stories of people who were staying without support in prisons would have been destroyed, while with the support they received from these programs, they have changed, rose. This applies to any person who has this possibility to be saved. The bill, therefore, motivates prisoners to rehab outside prison. Release shall take place after the first phase of the programme has been completed in prison. As I said before, it releases guests, under expulsion by foreigners, about five hundred people who have served their sentence and who continue to be deported, because they cannot be deported. The bill obliges the authorities to prepare for expulsion in good time or to find that it is impossible. We can't keep them if deportation is impossible. What can we do? They've finished their sentence, and we can't put another penalty on the sentence. It is therefore a package of provisions in the spirit of humanism and law, supplemented by the amendments tabled by the Ministry and us, as SYRIZA. I shall mention them very briefly, because we shall develop them in an article. It is the house arrest of relatives up to a second degree during the proceedings, for acts carried out in the fulfilment of the social, relative duty. In simple terms, the law takes into account the conscious cheques and common sense. It understands, however, without discharge. She understands, for example, that a mother cannot hand over her child. At the same time, we tabled two further amendments and a number of others, but I shall refer to the two most controversial ones. One is the abolition of legal monstrousism, which the whole democratic and legal world had agreed on at the time. I am referring to the famous "cockman". At that time, sixty-four lawyers, the Greek Criminal Association, Manoledakis, had all written against it. He was shameful, he didn't help anything. He's criminalized politics. We also propose to change the way in which DNA is taken in a way consistent with the Constitution, the international conventions and recommendations given to us by the Personal Data Protection Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, in the days prior to this debate, in this framework for the bill, we have watched from the New Democracy and several channels, a complete attack. Strikes of lawlessness, terror, distortion. The channels and the New Democracy have been transformed and turned into the best advertisers of the "familiar-familiar", against whom they break their clothes. They display the slightest insignificant or most important episode as if they were longing for it. The big Tuesday episodes play three and four days 'conserva', and so do they. And I would ask myself: Who really does pay for lawlessness? Who creates this feeling that we're burning, that we're losing? It is a campaign of terror, sad and outrageous, because it is just coming and covering up the debate on this bill, which concerns the most helpless and weak. This barbarity is not worth it and it is not for anyone. I would like both the Potami and the PASOK not to go along with this terror. I would really like them to have a different attitude on this issue, because it is a political propaganda of terror, demagogue and destructive, far-right tactics of Mr Samaras, who was defeated and did not go forward. You can't just make politics like that. We should concentrate the debate on this bill, for which we all have great responsibilities. Most of all, of course, the previous governments have great responsibilities for the conditions that we now receive and which we all have to have a hand in changing them. At the same time, however, last week, on the Great Week, we also heard the scientific bodies, representatives of associations of judges and prosecutors, penitentiaries, rights organizations, citizens' and child's lawyers. Their overwhelming majority - thirteenths in fourteen - clearly supported the bill. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I would like two more minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u64	Your time isn't even finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u65	I'm fasting. The President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors says: “The bill is a repetition of previous arrangements. These regulations are also imposed because of the inseparable imprisonment, but also because of the constant condemnation of Greece by the Court of Human Rights.' The Child's Counselor says: "We welcome very positively measures concerning minors and we are pleased that the Associations of Judges and Prosecutors agree." The president of the KETHEA says: “The current law specialises in a very happy manner topics already existing in the law of 2013.” The President of the Federation of Penitentiary Officials of Greece says: "Those who believe this bill is useful are mistaken. It's not just useful. It is extremely necessary.’ We therefore have all these agencies from different starting points to support this bill. What are all these? Symbols? Philo-terrorists? Improves of lawlessness? For us, and for a whole tradition of liberal thinkers and struggles on rights and freedom, the penitentiary system must aim to support, penalise and reincorporate man and not to invade him, to crush him, to vengeance and to cut him off from society. This is not just a humanitarian approach. It is a realistic approach, which really supports and promotes security. Because only if the vicious circle that says "crime, punishment, extermination, revenge against what will come out, so even relapse", only if this vicious circle breaks, can it really support another approach that will bring security in the long and medium term. So, as the Minister said, the bill contributes to security and humanity. Both coexist and one supports the other. We have to choose how we stand in these things. We must use where punishment and extermination have brought real results. I will close with an image that - I have said before - is shocking and particularly interesting to me. On the Great Thursday in the prisons of Rebibia of Rome, Pope Francis at the ceremony in Nipteros washed and kissed the feet of twelve prisoners. He's a man with so much authority. Think of how it is used and how it is exploited and what message and perspective it gives for a society: A prospect of humanity and forgiveness. We all have the responsibility and responsibility for what message we will give, what structures we will put in and what society we dream of. Or will we give a message of resentment, violence and extermination? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Kiilias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we can also disagree. But here there is a structural disagreement. Minister, at the end of the first meeting of the committee with your intervention you have admitted that the arrangements in the bill under discussion are of a fragmentary nature. I will not point out that the fragmentary nature of critical bills relating to the functioning of the state can be devastating. We know that - I think - all those who are here today. However, Minister, although fragmented, these arrangements are fully integrated into a structured policy dictated by the basic ideological principles of anti-semitists who are, unfortunately, in the hard core of SYRIZA. The bill you brought to the vote serves three defined objectives: Firstly - and believe me, because I served the position of the Minister of Public Order for eight months - you are breaking up the country's internal security. You don't care about the type of act, the conditions of its execution, the personality and the potential risk of its perpetrator. You exterminate every welfare element and individualised crisis. You are imposing a single criterion for everyone to dismantle - allegedly - prisons. In a tragic situation is our prisons, my fellow Member - I fully agree - but heavy criminals, rapers, thieves, robbers, terrorists horizontally across all ambiguousness? You have taken an objective criterion, namely the one/10, 1/5, 1/3, of the sentence imposed, on the one hand, and dressed it in the cloak of disinfection. Before you, Minister, you know that others have used similar criteria with regard to serious crimes, ladies and gentlemen, while introducing the necessary exceptions. You have, however, gone beyond all effort, especially in the last case that you refer to those who carry out prison sentences over ten years. I'm not talking about it. Thus, caregiverism becomes an exile. Judges no longer need to be tried. The 10-year-old release is defined as a horizontal measure, for which SYRIZA as a captive opposition - I recall as a general principle - broke out his garments. Pretext: aggregation in detention stores and the cost of food and storage systems. Look, the reality and the truth is, Madam President, that your party has a structural problem with the police and justice. She remembers days of ancient times. We buried this deep. It happened before I was born. But you, not as it turns out. Your second goal is to satisfy the SYRIZA components, in and out of SYRIZA rather, by abolishing - if I may - the cells in the type III detention stores. So even a prisoner, who we know very well has aggressive behaviour and is at risk for his fellow prisoners or penitentiary officials, cannot be removed from others. You're strengthening what everyone knows, that in prison the hard-boiled criminals are calling the shots. You are therefore demolishing our own attempt to set order instead of improving it, and that is a pity, Minister, The strange thing, however, is that while you agreed with the directly concerned, their hooded defenders go out every night and challenge you. To you they prove they have and exercise authority. You are proving and certifying with the amendments that will be discussed tomorrow the selective ideological affiliations with them. Set up the hoods, the anti-powered, the "bugs" the dance of fire every night, and you as the government "first time left" are suddenly discovering that they have an outfit and bomb-building workshops and molotovs the unbattoon of the polytechnic. Now, forty years? And what did you do about it? I'll tell you what you've done. Withdraw the police, making it a passive viewer, so as not to irritate the 'children'. Your third objective is to keep the agreement with the terrorists and their companions and defenders, just as you - not me, Mr Minister - had announced, by your programme statements, that you would invite them to dialogue. And you did it, Minister. And, unfortunately, you did so before you were even picked out with my colleagues here in Parliament and with the parties, the legal rights elected by the Greek people. That's the truth. Thus, today, the Rector of Athens, housed in the contagious central building of the university, counts eighteen days of occupancy by hoodiers. They exterminate with darkness, paint with slogans the Unknown Soldier and undisturbed return to their base, because the political will wants the police castrated. I told you about police viewers from a long time, so that 'children' would not be confused. For the citizens we normally serve, I see no sensitivity. For the vast majority of the Greek people, the law-abiding citizens. We have ensured that the safety that they have had is rapidly evaporated and we have ensured them in such difficult times. You know - and not me - the Deputy Minister of Public Order and Citizens' Protection feels so insecurity that he warned you by saying "the hoodmen want dead, to relive the epic in December 2008". Unfortunately, it has only remained for four days - and this mistake, Minister - under your protection, the Ministry of Justice, so that protection can also be given to it. But let me come to the issue of introducing favorable measures for patients, elderly and minor prisoners. I see in the explanatory statement that you sincerely suffer from feelings of leniency towards them, against these groups of prisoners, and these feelings I could only welcome. I think they are products of a noble nature. However, I am prevented, Minister, by the phrase "to 80 % or more disabled detainees and having served part of the sentence as isovites, since because of their lack of self-service for health reasons their detention in detention is particularly burdensome". Because, Minister, I told you at the meeting yesterday and I find myself in the unpleasant position to repeat today that this provision is unbearable because it is photographic. In the end, you also admitted it, filling out that he photographs two. I can't imagine - I honestly tell you - that you, a well-established professor of Criminal Law, would ever have intended to serve crime and terrorism. To God! I believe, however, that this regulation is a dictatorial product. If we had difficulty detecting the spirit of the bill, Mr Minister, then our colleague, Mrs Schmidbauer, made some kind of training so that any doubts were dispersed. He said - with honesty, I must say - that your party is about protecting human health - terrorists against the criminal, moral and social value of the crime it committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u68	Did I say terrorist?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u69	Please don't interrupt. Respect the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u70	But don't fake, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u71	In any case, my fellow Member said that according to seasons society assesses the circumstances and circumstances of the operation differently every time. According to your theory, then, Savvas Dryros in 2002 did not put a bomb in order to get people's lives, but was at an orderly service. Now in 2015, because you are government, you told us the unheard, rushing to ask and apologise: You said the state blinded him! So while continuing, Minister, your thoughts, the citizens have to understand that the Dryer is being released, because the state owes him. The first time left means society, under the ideological guidance of SYRIZA's components, will soon teach the world to see Xero with other eyes, possibly those of the popular hero. So, please very much, likewise return to the tortured people in the hostel and tell Mr.Axarlian's mother and Paul Bakoyannis's children and his son Momferatos and the families of the thirty-nine victims of 17 November that they will cease to hurt because the state must release the Xero who, in time of terrorist service, lost his light. And to the families of his victims who will never see the light again, Minister, what are we going to say? I do not want to be entirely negative about the draft law you have drawn up, and I must confess - it has been analysed in committee too - that a few provisions are being detected in the right direction. But you have also managed to make it virtually incomplete and misguided and to find it difficult to support them all. I suggested that you withdraw the bill, correct the fragmentary nature of the arrangements and bring it back. Do not abuse the function of the state and justice you have the honor of serving as an academic teacher. But you have decided not to. It's your decision. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we, with unprecedented regulations that you enter, destroying the existing law that was supported by justice, will not consent. We, bills that come to satisfy - I am sorry - regrettable minorities, we will not vote. Minister, in order not to think that this is a personal matter - it is not - I tell you that the problem is not with you. It is with the ideals that you and your Government are serving in matters of security, immigration, public order. It seems that what many decades ago has been humiliated idealisms we are called upon to relive today as a bad dream. Unfortunately, together with us, the country. And even more unfortunate, as I fear, with unforeseen and disastrous consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. The list of speakers is now closed. I will then inform you of the number of registered speakers. The floor is given by the Special Rapporteur of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Miss Sveroni - Chondosios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many years! What I heard from the excellent Minister of State, Mr Paraskevi, who was first known as a university teacher, I can say that I was moved, but at the same time I was troubled. I was touched by the fact that the Minister, the university teacher, referred to previous ministers of justice, great personalities, and said exactly how those people worked in such cases, namely when they had to bring some laws to deal with the problems of prisoners. Penitentiary? It is euphemistically said so. They are prisoners, and let us call them 'insecretary'. It's like the Black Sea. I was also very impressed that he took a stand and said that his view is that my inmates of the Golden Dawn had to be here today. Minister, I am aware, of course, of your sensitivity, but I am given the opportunity from this step to say, since you have referred to your predecessors who have been in contact with inmates of serious crimes and even convicted, should Mrs Catrivanou, who has a great deal of sensitivity with the incarcerators, or a representative of your own - I would not dare say you yourself, Mr Minister, but why not you and Mrs Catrivanos as rapporteur - make a visit to the Korydallos prisons? Because there, too, in the prisons of Corydal people are the ones who are being imprisoned. They're golden, of course, but they're your colleagues. They're our colleagues. They're MPs. I think that, you know, hypocritical and a little strange on the one hand to say - and the truth so is - that prisons should be penitentiary and that they should not be soul stores. But that can't only be true for some. We cannot say that I went and saw some of them and felt like I was living the 'Mexonian Armors'. We cannot speak in such black colours and be sympathetic - and we are doing well, we are not gods - only people who have been convicted of serious crimes by the Criminal Law, of homicides - that is, I believe that this is the most serious crime, that is to say, the removal of human life - or of terrorist acts, that is to say, people whom Greek justice has judged, tried and condemned. These people you visit them - and you do well - because they are people. Because what the state was about to do through its own institutions, through its courts, and what the later part of the state must do is to save these people. But are you hypocrites? Aren't you actually telling the truth, not to say you're lying? Are you only sensitive to these people? So it's possible that a man can be sensitive to a prisoner, whether he's sick or not? Because, you know, when you're locked up and well, you're getting sick. There's no way. That's why we're saying we're creating a institutionalization. That is why there is also the institution of licences. We don't want them to be alive - dead in prison. We want them to be reinstated. We therefore have the institution of licences so that these people can be reinstated. And we're talking about any person, whatever action he's done, no matter how deceptive it is. That's the one. There's another one, Mr. Kikilia. There are your colleagues, our fellow Members, to whom they apply, as to every citizen - from the most important to the most famous - the presumption of innocence. These people are in jail. From our previous group of seven colleagues in Parliament, seven were temporary prisoners. The chief exhausted his eighteenth month to get out. And you know, I saw a lot of tears. I'm sorry to tell you, but your tears are crocodile. You cannot have love, you cannot have compassion, you cannot only see with such humanity the sentencers of all crimes, all forms of violence, rapes, traffickers, murderers and for some people to whom the presumption of innocence applies to be otherwise. Does the presumption of innocence actually apply in our country? Are we a civilized country? Do we have a legal culture? Do we have a political culture? Uh, decide, anyway, who are we, what are we, what are we, and what is in this country? Because it is not possible that nobody has become aware of this aspect of the progressive, the left! You see they're always our seat. It's empty of those who can't come because they're not allowed to come. I'm not saying it's your fault. He's the D.A., he's the judge who decides his own. Did you ever make a resolution? You made a protest to yourself when, in the case of other situations which you were concerned about, you were going to the Justice Ministers, you went to the Prime Minister, you went to the Archbishop and did a performance that shouldn't have been the case for humanitarian reasons. Is that your humanism? How's your humanism? According to the beam? flat? Is there anthropism that has an ideological background? Is it ever possible to talk to such bases? Because I have been working on the Criminal, yes, in general I believe that the bill is in the right direction. But we have some objections. It's in the right direction, because Type III prisons haven't taken place so far. We're saying we're abolishing prisons that your government has done, Mr. Kikilia, and you were a Minister of Public Order. Why am I saying that? Because you referred to some things that should not be honored or honored, anyway, the previous government. So we're talking about type III prisons, which have never worked. And there's a lot of bad talk about nothing about prisons that didn't work, that if they worked, they'll, they'll... and the other side says they have to work to, to, to, to... nothing! Already the existing penitentiaries could operate as planned in the draft law as A and B of the press. I fear that some people, some people - I am sorry to say - who are incarcerated, who have been convicted, but who are characterized by the authorities or by people as particularly dangerous, might be able to have some particular wings in prisons. But don't make so much dormant right now, what did you do with Type III prisons that never worked. But again, do not say that we are abolishing some prisons which have not worked. The same applies to both sides. We, as the Golden Dawn, believe that we really had to have some areas. Some directions had to be given. There was to be a decongestion in prisons, since for some reason, either we have no funds or the previous ones have not taken care of building prisons as they have to. Yes, people - respecting ourselves, also respecting themselves - must serve a penalty, but not dissolve. And this draft law should be done. We fear, however, that you are doing so, gentlemen, for other reasons, to communicate. With great grief, I am not the only one watching, the entire Greek people are watching that for the seventeenth, eighteenth day, the rectorship of the University of Athens, the oldest university in Greece has been taken over by anti-powered. What are the anti-powermen after all? Are they the rulers? Are these superpowers? I guess that's it. Because it is not possible for these people, the anti-powered, to wait for the bill to be passed to see if their own people will be released, perhaps ideologically speaking. Obviously that's what they're gonna mean. That's why we see there's so much importance. But you'll tell me it's not like that. And you know what I'll tell you? The facts show another way. Mrs Catrivanou referred, of course, to this and said that all of this is not the case, that is, we bring the bill quickly - quickly now because the anti-powered - powerless and powerless - have been occupied in a public building. First of all, this is something that should make us all ashamed. Yeah, make us all ashamed. I do not think anywhere, anywhere on the planet, even in the sub-Saharan countries or in Banana, or I do not know what else - I am sorry for the market expression I have used - that it is ever possible for a group of people who are known to be unknown - I do not know how to characterize them - to occupy a university, not just a public building, the first university in the country. And we expect them to do what the kids do? Today they're doing this, tomorrow they're going to do something else? So it gave me the impression that Mrs Catrivanou says 'A, it's nothing, that's the 'conservative', you know, that television plays. You may be right, Mrs Catrivanu, it may be the 'conservative' that television plays. I would remind you, however, - and now I am addressing all sides of this House - that these 'conservatives' were also playing the television on the Golden Dawn, and now that it is also in the presence of the court, I am very afraid that the same 'conservatives' would play TV again. And no one became aware. All channels showed exactly the same, the same incident, the same incident from another perspective, with the same clothes, with the same people. These were all the crimes that TV showed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u74	But then there was a crime! It makes a difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u75	Madam Baja, I'm so sorry, I'm sorry to tell you, but crime has a name. The perpetrator, the one who committed the crime, is in prison. So, because we're also Larissas, if tomorrow some golden guy or someone who dares and says he's a golden guy kills a man and calls me, irons you have to call me too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u76	It's not simple that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u77	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u78	Some people led him and killed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u79	Can I tell you something? First of all, if you're so interested, the trial begins. We all have to wait and not make any more judgments, because bad lies, as we have said, are wheels and turns, and we never know where we can get to. Let me remind you of Breech that there was no other person anymore, because I don't care about one another, I don't care about the other and in the end, when it comes to us, there's no voice to shout. There's nobody, there's nothing. If you really want to say that you are progressive, if you want to say that you are left, respect, not me, but our legal culture and our rightful system, which speaks of the presumption of innocence. We are still temporary prisoners, and we are at a stage where the primary trial has not yet taken place. At least that's what you have to respect. And don't talk about democracy, don't talk about humanity, when you yourself can't become pregnant in you and all you can and even get out right now are screams. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] As for Mr Kikilia - I was the first time in this House - I am beginning to say that I probably don't live in this country or some people have come here for the first time. I heard from Mr Kikilia, the former Minister of Public Order, saying what happened with the prisons, what happened to those who took over the university, etc. Why, for days of his own, was something different? If anything were done differently, I would say that it was indeed the status quo, and we really lived in a favoured state, and now the others came and brought it down. Here's about one of the same. Just now, maybe the known strangers feel - feeling themselves, I don't know - that they have to wait from this government something different, I don't know what. You know, whoever didn't go to prison can't understand that what's happening to these people is extremely bad. They pass through a process that should first come in contact with themselves, a self-awareness. You know that the environment doesn't help them in this, because in prison infrastructure we don't have, nor do we have the appropriate sociologists or the right psychologists. There's nothing. Penitentiary officers are few. And you know, in the first time there is meditation with themselves, where these people regret, when they need a hand of help to reintegrate into society - why is the role that the penalty is playing twice, is special prevention and general prevention - when they feel that they have been repented and want to go out to society, then you know what they see? That there's no help hand next to them. They already have stigmatism and that is not enough, but these people are considered indeed scumbags of society and while they feel they are the victims, because they have done a derogatory, heavy act - which is why they have been found in prison - they are beginning and feeling what the Minister said, they are slowly beginning to feel victims. They are remembered, so that when these people come out, they have an enormous wrath toward all of our society, to all of us, to what is called the status quo. And that's a way of replicating crime. We are very favourable, we see, if you will, the reforms for minors, but we have our objection, Minister, because in eighteen years, a young person cannot be mature to vote for you, me, alpha or beta and at fifteen to be minor. In other words, the act should not be counted between eight and fifteen years. It's a big leap, so that it doesn't count on the perpetrator. I expected that the age should be lower, because the Association of Prosecutors there raised some objections and said that the gangs of the fifteen and sixteen can now also use other minors for fraudulent activities, but they too can now be used by other adults. I think, Minister, that we should look at it more carefully. Just because this article is not on its own, we can't see it. In other words, if we look favourably at the other provisions, we are standing on this particular point. As far as people are concerned - another big issue with the essentials - these are degraded personalities found in prison. The view and position of the Golden Dawn for years has been that people who have been substantially dependent, sick, degraded should not be in prison, should not be imprisoned. They should have a treatment as the sick do. They must be treated at a rehab centre. But what does your bill say here, Minister? He says there's a distinction. He says the sentences are suspended for some who's watching a program from the outside, and we're leaving them in. I told you in committee too, Minister. With all due respect, unfortunately, the infrastructure with the programmes is not available in all prisons. For example, in Amphissa they do not exist. There are drug addicts, there are people who want to attend programmes, and unfortunately there is no such programme. But also in Larissa - you know - there is the work that is being done. That is to say, another to monitor the program from my home, which is on a daily basis, and another to be in prison, because the therapist goes to Larissa prison once a week. So you understand that it takes a lot more time to get to a stage with another also accused of the same deeds from outside. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It is a big thing to do with real reliance. Not to tell you that you might want, gentlemen - especially the SYRIZA - the left-wing, the progressive - to make progressive proposals for those who are essential, since we all want to hit real dependence and save young people - because young people usually fall into drugs - but we also want to step on trade. Where's the black money from? From trafficking in white flesh, weapons and drugs. Do we want to hit the drug trade? Then, as we have substitute centres, these substances could be administered to hospitals. However, to be under medical supervision, there is a list of the names of registered essentials, because too many other deeds of these young people have to do with their dependence on drugs. In other words, the girl who hasn't been, will be rewarded, the young man will rob, steal, do various illegitimate activities in order to find his drug to satisfy his passion. All the rest we do is semimeters. If you go outside the substitution centers, you will see that there are tails of young people waiting to beg not to exceptionally begging a doctor to give them methadone or buprenorphine. I believe that, Minister, at least we must do something for those who are truly eminent, because they are indeed young people. We don't have that luxury, our young people to let them die. We didn't give them any compass in their lives. We did not give them any ideas and principles - because it is the value crisis that has finally led the youth, the man of this place to be in drugs - at least let us stand up to them, at least let us make special healing shops. Let's go, 'cause we're gone! I am sorry, Madam President, for the time and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Hondronasiu. I think it's important to remind pastor Martin Nimler that he's often attributed to Breecht, but he doesn't belong to Breech. It may also have value for our debate. "When they came to take the Gypsies, I didn't react. I wasn't a gypsy. When they came to pick up the communists, I didn't react. I wasn't a communist. When they came to take the Jews, I didn't react. I wasn't Jewish. When they came to take me, no one left to react." Let them think of that those who are rushing to identify the one who reacts with those whose rights it defends. Mr Iason Foilas has the floor from the point of view of the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to refer to what the Minister said in his report. Evidently he referred to the report by the Commission of the Council of Europe on the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, which he has repeatedly evaluated Greece negatively on the state of detention stores and has identified their potential situation. In fact, in March 2011 CPT had made public statements on the state of prisons in Greece, finding a steady deterioration in the living conditions and treatment of prisoners. It has identified a number of essential structural issues because of which efforts to deal with the situation are being undermined, and these are: firstly, the lack of a strategic plan for the administration of the prison system. Secondly, the lack of an effective system of reports and supervision. And thirdly, the inadequate administration of staff. The CPT acknowledges that overpopulation of detention stores creates serious difficulties. This does not mean, however, that because the authorities at times cannot exercise effective prison administration, they must, at regular intervals, emptied them out by mass convicts. In fact, the CPT in its latest report in 2014 describes attributes that early release measures had no effect at all. Therefore, I would ask the Minister and the author of this bill to read all the pages of the CPT report and not just those in favour of their arguments. We would expect the Ministry of Justice's first piece of legislation to involve either a strategic plan for reforming our country's penitentiary system or concrete measures to speed up the administration of justice, whose delay lies within the limits of veto, or even a piece of legislation that includes an integrated reform from the bottom up to the same level as our penitentiary system needs. Instead - and unfortunately this is not the first bill we see this - we have a piece of legislation. The government does not dare to innovate, but makes use of the past's failed policies, aimed only at temporary dismantling of a situation and transferring to the future of any reforms. This is particularly regrettable because we have been waiting for much more from this Minister. And very briefly during the debate in the committee, unfortunately the Minister himself admitted that this is a bill which comes quickly and has fragmentary arrangements because of the urgency of the situation. Indeed, it is urgently necessary to reform the country's penitentiary system, but not in the direction that the government is attempting. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a common place to all of us, even to those who do not systematically deal with this issue, that the situation of the country's penitentiary system is dramatic. The shortages in physical infrastructures are great. The supportive structures of the penitentiary system at best work elementally, while at worst they simply do not exist. The situation in the psychiatric and rehab facilities is dramatic. As far as prison hospitals are concerned, they're hells of human souls. On these issues we have convictions by the European Court of Human Rights. For this reason, however, the bill we are called upon to discuss today has no reference - not one. And when during the debate in the committee, I asked the Minister why the new bill does not provide for the creation of new structures or the strengthening of existing structures, the answer was that over many years the governments that went through have done nothing for the structures, that time is needed and that they will come back to the future to correct the bad texts and any shortcomings. But, ladies and gentlemen, the logic of'so did the previous ones' is unacceptable for a government with a fresh people's mandate called on to implement another policy, as he argued, and it is something that Potami will find us vertically opposing. And Poami is not here to discuss what happened in the past, but what will happen from now on. Not what mistakes the previous ones made to repeat them, but how to design our country's penitentiary system in the future. Unfortunately, this bill does not have any vision or planning to modernise the country's penitentiary system, nor does it address its structural problems and chronic dysfunctions, because these of course require a long-term plan and organisation to deal with and the government shows no intention to resolve them. I'll come to the bill now. With the first article we have the abolition of Type III stores without any provision for the improvement of detention stores 1 and 2 and only mentioning that in the type I detention stores all the others are detained for debts and in the type II detention stores. It is also surprising that in the explanatory statement the existing institutional framework for the treatment of detainees is considered satisfactory, and that is why this law does not provide for interventions in detention stores in special security wings for dangerous detainees. I guess the government has forgotten the successful escapes of the past by helicopters and other means and does not think they are likely to happen again in the future. I really wonder how it is possible to argue that the barbecue, the archimbi in this country, cannot be in the same place as a prisoner of medium and low criminal risk or that heavi criminal prisoners should not be kept by the special body of the Greek Police, created for this reason. Does anyone disagree with what international experience has shown, that where there is no segregation of prisoners according to their risk, prisons are practically run by the barbecue prisoners? And the Greek prisons, ladies and gentlemen, are no exception to this. And the choice of abolishing the highest security prisons is more affecting the weak prisoners, those accused of less serious offences, who end up being the ballot of barbers and archivals. And it is worth wondering that the government's sensitivity is exhausted only to specific provisions on release and not to the protection of weak detainees. And unfortunately, we are seeing another practice of this government repeated. Any institution or body that is not working properly instead of reforming it or improving it is abolishing it. Instead of reforming and rationalising the state of operation of the highest security prisons, as it would be right, it abolishes them by invoking human rights violations. So all the countries of the European Union and the Council of Europe that have high security prisons, such as Finland, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Spain, Italy, are violating human rights? I don't think so. At the hearing of bodies in committee, the President of the Federation of Penitentiary Officers has tabled very important proposals, Minister, which, unfortunately, you did not seem to have taken into account. In addition to the difficult day-to-day life experienced by prison workers, it also posed to us the serious problems facing too many prisoners whose security is being threatened. He spoke specifically of prisoners who continue their violations and within detention stores. It has made a proposal, that there should be a special place where these prisoners will be held and that they cannot be held in the same place as the first time in the penitentiary with the one who is already serving eight or ten years of punishment. In other words, apart from the offence for which a person is accused, the time entered the detention store must also be taken into account. To go to Article 2, which amends provisions of the Criminal Code and regulates issues relating to the duration and the conditions for imposing restrictions on a special detention shop for young people, the age limits of criminal irresponsibility of minors, the home-made creation of the prison sentence or imprisonment, the conditions for the conditional dismissal of sentences, the extension of the utility calculation to other categories of prisoners. The Government, invoking reasons of humanity and the environment the explanatory statement with a rhetoric on equality and justice, proceeds to an arbitrary legislative reduction in the time of actual elaboration of the sentence, without exceptions for crimes sentenced to each grade and gravity on the sole grounds of age and health, without any substantial assessment of the perpetrator's personality at the same time. Several provisions of Article 2 cover, ladies and gentlemen, general amnesty, since there are no essential criteria for the risk of the perpetrator. They're just letting themselves go without even considering whether the fired man is already a retreat. And, unfortunately, it is almost certain that persons who under normal circumstances should remain incarcerated will also be fired. At the same time, Article 2 provides for additional beneficial provisions for measuring and establishing the penalty for detainees suffering from hemiphery, grievance and a number of diseases, as each day of detention is beneficially calculated as two days. The same goes for those with a disability rate of 67%, which was in existence. Here too, the category of detainees with a 50% disability and a 50% disability is added, who cannot work. At the same time, in paragraph 2, the dismissal shall be added regardless of conditions and to the sentenced persons with a disability rate of 67% or more and to those with 50% or more, if it is considered that their stay in the detention store is particularly burdensome due to a lack of self-service. The point in our attention is in paragraph 10 of Article 2, where, in the event of life imprisonment, the prisoner has spent 10 years in any way and has an disability rate of 80% or more, he is serving the rest of his home sentence. A great deal has been said about this. I don't want to repeat it. However, I am pleased that the Minister has stated that this provision is not photographic. It's about Savva Dried and another one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u82	And another ten said!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u83	But, ladies and gentlemen, on this point, I would like to ask the Minister a simple question. I have put it in committee too, but I have not received an answer. How do you judge that a rate of disability of 50% or 67% makes someone unable to regain or be a moral automobile or accomplice? If someone has had a heart surgery, for example, or has hemorrhaging once in three days, or has fingers cut out of an accident, do you think that this is enough to be released and that they are unable to commit a crime again? Another element, which does not take into account the draft law, is whether the disability concerned existed before the offence was committed or appeared in the course or during the course of the offence. I do not see what reason it will prevent someone who has had multiple sclerosis either had a heart attack or had a kidney failure at the time of the crime being committed, from committing similar offences in the future. However, the guarding of prisoners at home itself does not prevent them from being morally self-defenseed in the creation of their sentence at home. The second point in the bill opposing us is the sub-paragraphs of Article 2 concerning the incarceration of minors. First of all, the threshold for starting criminal liability from thirteen to fifteen years is increased. There is a contradiction here. As we today consider that children grow faster than older generations, we are nevertheless increasing the age limit until which they cannot be accounted for. This regulation abolishes the incarceration of minors for all offences with the exception of those that are tampering with life imprisonment. In other words, a minor who has been sentenced to rape or armed robbery will only take reform measures and alternative forms of penitentiary, for which this bill, although invoking them, does not mention anything more specific. This is, in fact, a general and iso-peopleic regulation. It overlooks the risk of exploiting minors from circuits, which will use minors for crimes of great social decency. In listening to our justified objections during the debate in the committee, the Minister said that he would consider extending the prediction of rape as well. In any case, however, we do not support the fact that prison is the appropriate means of penalisation for minors. What we are pointing out is that we cannot deny the reality, namely that there are cases of minors who are chronicly trained in crime and who are indeed dangerous to commit a crime again. It must be possible for them, i.e. the natural judge in question, to order the measure on a case-by-case basis, which the draft law abolishes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, because time is pushing and I do not want in my maiden speech in plenary to abuse both your time and your patience, I will close here. For the rest of the articles and for the amendments, I shall refer to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr Colleagues, anyhow on the articles will be a separate meeting, so that you may refer specifically to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u85	I'll find out slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u86	I would like to inform you here, as I promised, of the number of registered speakers: fifty two speakers have already been registered. We shall then discuss the procedure that we shall follow, so that we can make as much, substantial and complete a debate as possible. The rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, more than five bills have been passed by the Greek Parliament from 2008 until today, including exceptional measures for decongestion of prisons, together with radical changes in the Criminal Code on the dismissal of detainees. Every time the prison situation reached the unprecedented number of prisoners and their living conditions came a bill of this kind that temporarily decomposed the prisons, temporarily turned out a situation, until of course the prisons were refilled and the next arrangement came and said so. All previous governments, with the first of the New Democracy in 2008 and successively all governments of New Democracy - PASOK, PASOK - New Democracy, took such measures. What was the result? Prisoners were out of prisons, many of whom - if not most - returned and prisons were reinstated, and why crime was not being dealt with, but why all these bills did not serve any reasonable conscientiousness, improving prison detention conditions, reintegration with measures to deal with relapse. We, of course, consider that crime cannot be tackled radically in a society of rot, a jungle, where my life is true. On the contrary, they will increase the percentages as this sepsis increases. However, individual individuals can also be saved and reintegrated if appropriate structures, appropriate measures, infrastructure and qualified staff are available. These laws, therefore, instead of giving solutions to all these issues, all they did was take some relief and artificial decongestion measures, with no care or any concern about what they will do or where all these people will go. Because a lot of talk has been made - and it is done - in the debate of the 'humanism' bill on what is humane, humanitarian and what is inhumane, we consider that, as inhumane is the logic that stacks like animals - and even worse - people in prison, so inhumane is the reason he says,'slap them into the jungle and cut their neck, let them survive as they can and if they can't'. They are the two sides of the same cruel coin. It is the same logic that on the subject, for example, of immigrants and refugees, it says, 'I will not create accommodation places, I will not give travel documents to go to countries - destinations, in conflict with the framework of the European Union, but I will let this world wander around in despair' rather than melt, as the Minister for Migration Policy said. It is the same logic that on the issue of drug addicts it says "I will not make dry treatment programs, but I will leave them to life dependency or substitution". It is the same logic of managing a problem that is constantly reproduced, recycled in one way or another. All previous bills were governed by that logic. And today's bill, unfortunately, although differentiated and with some positive provisions, such as the provisions on foreigners or on press C prisons, is moving in the same line of thought, namely the cloak of humanism, we have another artificial bill - we say - of decongestion, such as so much as we have had in recent years. However, because this decongestion is artificial, the prisons in a short time are refilled with the same and even more prisoners. In other words, there is a short-sighted objective to say that people are coming out, that there is supposedly an improvement in the situation in prisons because there is inseparable because there are the fines imposed by the European courts, without taking any substantial steps to improve the conditions, improve the logistics infrastructure, care for the reintegration of these prisoners. Why is this done in both the previous and the specific bills? Because the current government, regardless of any intentions - we cannot interpret or interpret intentions - is objectively trying to manage and reconcile incompatible. Because the current government is moving in the same logic of budgetary discipline and adjustment, on the logic that there are no funds for serious social needs, such as the need for prisons - the Minister said so in his speech, 'What should we do? These are the ones available' - because it moves to the logic of supporting a road that gives birth to and reproduces crime, resorts to tested methods and measures such as those followed by the previous governments. And because the Minister referred to this, we, Minister, do not think that any attempt has been made by the previous governments. You say that there has been an effort from previous governments to improve prison conditions, hospitals, hospitals. We do not think that such an effort was made. It's not happening now either. And the proof you know where it exists? It's in Article 10. It's the new recruitment bill article. What does this report say about recruitment of nursing personnel? Twenty nurses and five social workers. This is the effort made by the Ministry, at the same time that there are a hundred sixty external guard workers, three hundred forty - five - five - five - five - five. We're not saying they don't need to. However, as far as medical care and care in prisons and in hospitals are concerned, it is twenty-five. If that is the effort of the government, then we have a different perception of what it means to 'employment'. Because, then, the bounty is followed, it would be advisable not to have great talk of innovation, of originality on the part of the government. Of course, on the other hand, it is absolutely hypocritical that the New Democracy and other parties' criticism of supposed security is being disturbed, and so on. The first to teach such draft emergency law of artificial decongestion of prisons was New Democracy and the PASOK. They were the first to apply such practices. From 2008 to the previous government, all governments have taken such artificial and extraordinary decongestion measures to dismantle the issue. And, of course, they did not address the essential issues and the basic problems in prisons. Of course, in the debate and in the committee, but also today in plenary, these serious problems have not been mentioned. On the contrary, he singled out the debate, publicity and publicity in the media, with the responsibility of the government, but also of other parties, the question of terrorism, the question of occupations, the question of whether or not Xeros comes out, whether it is photographic or not the provisions are photographic. We want to reiterate our own position, which is known, a position of standing, a position of principle, all these years: we have been dealing with such prisoners as common prisoners, for which the general provisions must be applied. It is another matter to see whether these general provisions are suffering, which are suffering, what must be changed and what must not be changed. Our reservation in the specific paragraph that has become an article does not concern Xeros, nor do we blame the Government for being a photographic provision. And we agree, if you will, and with what the Minister said, that if even for a man, you must take a measure to deal with a problem, you must take it. It is well known and the position we held as a Party - the Members of the previous presidency know it - in the case of the Roman. We, together with other parties, urged him to take the leave to study, despite the radically different opinion we had on his actions and actions, and so on. It is, however, another question of opening up the road to artificial decongestion in general, even with people who should not come out or at least should not go out on such terms. Of course, all this disorientative debate, this two-party argument was fuelled by the events of the Protestant occupations and elsewhere, which have absolutely nothing to do with the genuine protest and claim, the struggles of our people, and not even, Minister, because you mentioned it, with the protests of the prisoners. It is another thing that the protest of prisoners, who have serious problems living in prisons, are doing and protesting and mobilizing other things - and also your own ministers have admitted it - that groups that are perforated, and in all previous years they have operated slanderly, acted provocatively at the expense of the working people's movement. These groups were also exploited by the New Democracy and the PASOK, the previous governments, to implement reasonable and practical repression against the People's Movement, but also by SYRIZA, who had banned all previous years - and by recent statements - these groups in part of the movement, the struggles that claim, in fact, legalising this provocative action. On the occasion of these events which raise serious questions for the purposes and objectives they serve, a disorientated debate is maintained, a two-party argument, which is also convenient to hide the real essence of serious developments and the negotiation and the new commitments made with your partners in the European Union and the International Monetary Fund and, of course, - when we talk about the bill - to hide the substance of the bill, which has nothing to do with reintegration, penitentiary, improvement of detention conditions in prisons. On the contrary, our view is that the bill in these essential, basic problems does not give any convincing and substantial response. The question is not only that there are no Type III prisons. Of course they don't. And we agree that Type III prisons should be abolished. The question, however, is that there should be safe and human prisons for both prisoners and those who work in them. It is not just that there are no prisons of minors like the ones that existed in the unacceptable circumstances. The question is that these minors should be reinstated, have rights, end their school, be able to escape from a morbid family environment - those living in such a environment - be cut off from criminal circuits. This is the crucial issue when we talk about minors perpetrators of such acts. It is not only a question of not having people in prisons or in prison hospitals with heavy health, serious illnesses, but also of those in prison being able to have the medical care they need and need. In our view, the government's draft law gives no answer on these basic and fundamental issues. There is a sense of exceptional measures, such as those provided for in Article 6, without any care and no care to ensure that this world does not relapse at the mercy of circuits, poverty and drugs, that is to say, in a situation which gives rise to and regenerates crime. For this reason, we say that what in the bill looks like and is proclaimed as humanitarian, in practice - from the result and regardless of the intentions that may exist - is inhuman. The most clear cases of this logic are Article 6 of the bill on exceptional decongestion measures, as well as provisions concerning minors. The exceptional decongestion measures referred to in Article 6 include those prisoners who have been sentenced to life sentences. A prisoner, in other words, with more than twenty years in prison, will be able to get out in seven years. In the past, we have usually not voted against such exceptional decongestion measures. We voted 'at present' because, although we did not agree with the logic, we understood even a pressing need for a world to be able to come out and free itself in order to get rid of a situation. But we didn't do it under those terms. In other words, prisoners with life imprisonment will be able to make seven years of the sentence - perhaps less - come out. There are even risks of self-righteousness here. In other words, there is a risk that prisoners who have committed serious crimes will themselves fall victim to self-determination. So we do not agree with such measures. The Minister said - and rightly so - that there are provisions on the condition of a general dismissal which is not subject to exceptions in criminal law. That's right. That's what it is. This is how the provisions of both the existing dismissal and the actual dismissal are formed. Of course, that does not mean that you cannot criticise these provisions. But that's half the truth. Let the government and the Minister answer us from now on: What are the exceptional decongestation measures in what logic of the Criminal Law? Where are they? Extraordinary decongestion measures have been taken by all governments and have become the norm. Every year there is a generation of emergency measures to dismantle and dismantle the problem, and the prisons then refill. Because, then, you are a professor of Criminal Law, tell us what part and what criminal dogmatics that makes sense. So you follow a trumped-up logic. The other provisions - and I conclude with this - which we do not agree with are the provisions concerning minors. We fully agree with the increase in the age limit as regards the criminal irresponsibility of the detainees. Thirteen has to be fifteen years. That's absolutely right. We also agree that there must be a radical reform of the Criminal Law for minors, contrary to what is happening to this day. Of course, however, in order for these regulations to actually work and not even lead to a job for these young people, they must be accompanied by infrastructure and staff. They must be accompanied by a care that there will be reformist measures and structures for these minors. Of all this, what's in the bill? There's nothing. There is only Article 9 which says that at some point in the end of the future, with a presidential decree, certain structures of freedom, freedom and openness will be created for these people. But, in essence, what timetable, what structures and what staff? We're not saying you're gonna press a button and they're gonna be tomorrow. But what design is there in this regard? For all these critics, there's nothing in the bill. Nor does any of this exist for the support of the Child curriculum. And while there could be a real intersection in the Criminal Law of the minors in the direction of genuine penalisation and reintegration, in this way and in these provisions you only achieve is to incriminate a measure by leading it to inefficiency and decay. This is what you achieve when bringing arrangements without shaping the appropriate infrastructure. For these reasons, and for other issues, which will naturally be raised at the next meetings on the articles, we vote'residents' in the bill. We believe that the current government is also moving towards a logic of deportation, management and commitment to the policy of budgetary discipline of the "There are no funds for serious social needs" such as those of prison. And from this point of view, all you do is take measures to recyclate and increase the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u88	Thank you for the special speaker - rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Giokas. Let me make a proposal to this House in relation to the procedure to be followed. There are two rapporteurs left, Mr. Kokkalis from the Independent Greeks and Mrs. Gennimatas from PASOK. We have fifty two registered speakers. This means that if the time goes unregulated by everyone, which experience has shown that it is not very likely, it will only take six hours to talk to the speakers, without taking account of parliamentary representatives - which has already said that a parliamentary representative - or party leader - has asked for the floor. Mr Mitsotakis has asked for the floor, and Mr Venizelos has asked for the floor. What I'm suggesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u89	What party do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u90	I spoke about a parliamentary representative, Mr Constantinople. If you are a little more concerned with listening to what is said and a little less about doing this little well that has been formed there as a PASOK and Potami conglomerate, which hears what is said here, then you will be better watched and you will not have any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u91	You don't like it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u92	So Mr Mitsotakis is a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, unless you have another view. Mr. Venizelos is your party leader, unless you have any other view. So if there is no objection to self-evidently, I shall continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u93	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u94	Continue, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u95	So I continue to suggest that this first sitting should continue until 16: 30. The Conference of Presidents should be limited from 16: 45 to 17: 45, so that we can start the second sitting at 18: 00. Let us agree that the debate will be concluded at first reading at 20: 30 to 21: 00. Then we'll get into the articles. This means that colleagues, who are registered at the end, must consent to being included in the debate on the articles as a priority, so that we have shared the time of the three meetings and that half of them have been allocated to the debate at first reading and the other half have been allocated to the articles. If the House agrees in this way, we shall proceed like this. Otherwise, several Members will be deprived of the floor. Is there any objection to this procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u96	Let's go back an hour, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u97	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Gioka, can I normally give Mr. Palhey the floor? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u99	Madam President, we have no objection to making it easier, especially if there is no other view than other colleagues. So, given that we have a meeting tomorrow, the list can be completed today and the recommendations on the articles and amendments can be made tomorrow. And I say this to earn time, since together with tomorrow's sitting we have three meetings for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u100	Yes, but you realise that if we devote the two of the three meetings only to the first debate, we will be vindicating the articles and the amendments. If some rapporteurs now want to make it easier to postpone their introduction for tomorrow, that is something we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u101	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u102	But that is not to say that we are going to move on to the debate articles. So I think that is a proposal in the right and positive direction. Is there therefore any objection to a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u103	We'll go back an hour, Madam President. You've been late an hour, it'll be back an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u104	Mr Athanasios, I am now in a difficult position because your parliamentary representative, Mr Mitsotakis, is missing, as is your rapporteur, Mr Kikilias. There's only you and Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u105	It's me, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u106	I see that there is also Mr Tasoulus, Mr Stamatis and Mrs Martinou. You are five Members from New Democracy, but none of them are entitled to intervene. If you still want to intervene, I'll give you the floor. Of course, we're gonna waste more time. However, if you want to intervene by representing the rest of your four colleagues, without being entitled, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is, you have the floor for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u107	I would like to say that the beginning of this House has been unduly delayed by an hour. As regards Article 24, as you have said, I will then explain when it comes to taking a decision. There could be no retrospective decision, but at the beginning. So it was your fault, wrong handling that you asked for...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Athanasios, I would ask you to stand up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u109	Anyway, we lost an hour of the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u110	At the time you're from your position, you're looking up. The committee sits down. This is the procedure under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u111	Okay, if that's what's bothering you. You do so many other things that bother, but anyway. We want the procedure to go back an hour so that all Members can use all the time they deserve. It's because of your fault, we've been late for an hour and a quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u112	I would remind you that the Members were not in the Chamber and there was no quorum. We're on. There's another objection...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u113	Don't say that, Madam President! If the Members were to be late five hours, would we be late to start the sitting five hours? Where's her beginning declared?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u114	Don't start the same thing again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u115	Did I give you the floor, Mr. Athanasios? Why don't you ask why I should give it to you? Why don't you ask for the floor and intervene by interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u116	Good, Madam President, give me the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u117	Are you asking again why? You have not objected to the procedure I have proposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u119	I objected, but our representatives were not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u120	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u121	So I tell you that the delay is due to your fault. There is the principle of declared and there is therefore no need for a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u122	Proclaimed is something else, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u123	Let me finish! Much more so for many bills, when they vote....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u124	There are no "People present" Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u125	Let me tell you now. Leave those - I'm putting it in parentheses - "smart," because I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u126	You mean introductory!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u127	So I say to you that the House is voting on many bills when only the parliamentary representatives or the rapporteurs are in the Chamber and there is no majority. Article 24 retreats...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u128	That's not what the Rules of Procedure says. He's talking about a vote on the subject. And ‘they are present’ do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u129	I can explain to you, therefore, that all votes can be held and made here only with the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u130	And its phenomena are 'approved by majority vote' in an empty committee, they will not be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u131	So don't tell me now that we're all present when we vote the bills. Don't tell me there's an absolute majority when we vote the bills. And in any case, if the MPs are late for four or five hours, will the House, all the ministers and the MPs wait five hours to get a quorum? These are unprecedented things!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, do not recycle the debate!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u133	Madam President, we are in agreement and move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u134	Who are we in agreement with?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u135	Mr Athanasios raises an irreversible objection to the procedure I have proposed. Does Mr Mitsotakis say that he is in accordance with the procedure or with the objection? Please, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, we agree with the process of completing the debate on the principle of 21.00 p.m. and those who have not been on the list, who have not spoken, to put themselves on top of the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u137	Good. Is there anyone objecting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u138	Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u139	Mrs. Gennamas, you will speak, since your parliamentary representative is absent. You're rapporteur. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, I think that, as the debate is going on, it will not be time for the Members to be put before lunch, it would be preferable for the debate on the articles to begin tomorrow. To complete the list today until late at night. I think that this will enable us to express most of the Members who have asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u141	Is there any other objection?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u142	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u143	No, we agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u144	The only objection that has been raised is from Mrs Gennimata, on behalf of the PASOK. Mrs Gennamata, I must tell you that this regulation which I have basically proposed unfairs or restricts the Members registered, who are mostly Members of the SYRIZA. From your party, in any case, as far as I can see, it is only a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u145	But I'm not talking about the MPs of my party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u146	I say this to you that your objection will ultimately not protect the Member registered from your party. We will therefore make an indicative vote. Do you agree to proceed as I suggested?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u147	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u148	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u149	What does 'indicative vote' mean, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u150	The ones who agree to raise their hand. [[Raise the hand of accepting the proposal]] Is there anyone who disagrees?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u151	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u152	Indicative vote does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u153	There's no one who disagrees. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We will therefore proceed in this way. The adjournment will take place at 16.30 p.m., the Conference of Presidents from 16.45 to 17.45 p.m. and at 18.00 p.m. will begin by continuing the debate at the outset, which will be completed at around 20.30 p.m. and then we will enter into the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u154	Who decided that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u155	This was decided by the House, Mr Constantinople, in accordance with the democratic process. Mr Kokkalis, rapporteur from the Independent Greeks, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Madam President. I will try not to waste time in order to allow all Members to speak their views. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniably accepted that our penitentiary system is at hand and is not aimed at penalisation, but punishment. It is also generally accepted that in recent years we have deviated from the basic principles of the rule of law, touching and surpassing the limits of unconstitutionalism in many provisions which had been adopted and which had to do with criminal repression but also with penitentiary policy. This bill attempts to give prisoner the true meaning of the term, which is no more than reintegration. The criminal legislator, however, must and must be calm and remember that we are the criminal legislator. It must be calm on the responses of organised societies and on the imposition of the penalty and during the course of the construction. There are enough voices that say "Let him rot in jail" or "a pity, he's sick. Let him out of prison." We have seen, Minister, at the meetings of the Standing Committee, that this bill has been drafted by one of the terrorists on the part of the New Democracy, namely that all criminals outside - as the rest of the prisoners are bourgeois - and that, unfortunately, we have also seen a dedication of the term 'disease', of the term 'disability'. Both approaches are wrong because they do not share the basic principle of law, legal certainty, but at the same time do not take into account organised social reactions. Minister, Professor, as you are well aware, the penalty is the reaction of organised society to crime. But the purpose of this sentence must be to reinstate prisons, that is to reinstate them. I shall stand at the point of friction of the bill and the proposals put forward by the Independent Greeks, who do not share either terrorism or disarmament. The Independent Greeks believe and believe that the sense of law and security must be established for citizens, in conjunction with the protection of their health and life, who have been deprived of their personal freedom, according always to the principle of proportionality, which was the premier, in our proposal for this provision, which many have been accused - perhaps even though it is now our proposal, Minister - that was photographic. I am referring to the provision of those with a disability rate of over 80% and who are serving life imprisonment. To avoid hiding behind our finger, many said it was about Savva Xirus. We have irrevocably convicted, we have victims of this criminal activity, on the one hand, and on the other hand we have a very serious health situation. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The Independent Greeks have two proposals: immediate suspension of the sentence, medical treatment of Savvas Xiros or anyone who was in this position. The second proposal was the creation of his sentence under the regime of electronic surveillance. I am pleased to see - and the committee yesterday and today from this Step forward - that the Minister accepted the request for electronic surveillance. I think that this proposal produces and strengthens legal certainty for citizens. We must be calm, and I dare say that we have heard expressions and names, such as what this Tempner might have to do with this particular matter. I repeat, the criminal legislator must be cool. I believe that the Independent Greeks have given the right solution, on the one hand, to respect the sense of security that we ourselves must produce and trust the citizens, but, on the other, to protect the health of the detainees. I'd like to open a parentheses. Minister, the regime of electronic surveillance will help hundreds of prisoners. Mr Athanasios, I believe that electronic surveillance has been established on your own, and that is right. It will help hundreds of prisoners. It will also help to resolve the hands of too many judges, who instead of having it as the last measure of procedural coercive, were the first to do so. In our proposal, therefore, with the well-known bracelet, which must begin to work, there are rightly hundreds of prisoners who are entitled to benefit and the very correct institution of electronic surveillance, Mr Athanasios, which you have introduced and voted on. The second point of friction is the detention stores. First of all, I agree with the rapporteur on the Golden Dawn that they did not start working, so why do we disagree? With their announcement? Proof that they didn't solve a problem what is it? I am addressing the New Democracy. Check the infrastability since these prisons were announced to be type III if it has been increased or reduced since you announced it. I'll let you know he's raised. Therefore, the measure announced and not implemented - because it has never actually worked - has failed. The foundation of the existing dismissal, ladies and gentlemen, is not present. The most recent is n. Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on It included provisions almost identical. It is an institution that has several years in our criminal law. With most of the provisions of this bill in principle, the majority of the bodies, which we must respect, have agreed: representatives of penitentiary stores, a union of judges and prosecutors. I think that's very important. Let's just say we were wrong. Are those who express the scientific community also mistaken? It is therefore a fundamental principle that this bill should be drawn up: the definition of penalism in its right sense, that is to say, reintegration rather than continuing punishment. Penalty is the punishment. It's the state's organizational reaction. The continuation of this is another thing, ladies and gentlemen, and we must not ignore the basic principles of law. We have said, neither to dedicate the disease, nor to terroristism. The provisions concerning minors are also in the right direction. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In the right direction, too, there are provisions concerning addicted users. We will, however, analyse these at the articles meeting. The bill therefore moves in the right direction. It serves the principles of the rule of law. It serves the purpose of the penitentiary that reintegration is. We, the Independent Greeks, have noted that one of our two proposals has been accepted by the relevant Minister and we are proposing his vote. Mr President, I think I was consistent with what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mrs. Fofi Gennimata is called at Step, a special buyer from PASOK. Here you go, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of the legislative work reflects in an authentic way the general image of the government. The great expectations of the opposition are replaced by one by the great expectations of the difficult government. The government can already be described as the government of the great lost opportunities, lost opportunities for the country where the sacrifices of the citizens are given a veil on ideologies, clandestineness, communication and only the management of problems and the absence of any plan. Instead of making use of the time for everything she has to do, the government is wasting it along with the latest liquidity reserves, betting on what others will not do. We won't go bankrupt because nobody wants Grexit. They will not deny us, because they do not want Greece outside Europe. It is the dangerous theory that unfortunately sounds from the official lips of Ministers. Instead of working out of the crisis with safe steps, you are experimenting on the substance and trying to invent guilty in or out of the country for a possible failure. You have been in opposition for so many years, indignant, so many years, you have invested in populism, demagogy, the pre-conflicts of your political opponents with the sole aim of winning power. It's time for the Left. "First time on the left" you told the citizens and believed you, thought you were the alternative. You had so much time to prepare yourself out of the dance, away from the problems. So what is the left-wing plan for the country's governance? Inability to rule, incapacity is left? There is no single government despite the fact that you have set up many new coordination posts, coordinators for government work, corruption, immigrants and coordination are still being sought. Is it Left not to apply the law to the case of the University? Is the Minister responsible on the left asking the Prime Minister for instructions? Who finally decides in this place and who is above the law? Call in and answer us. You are implementing a policy which comes from among the commitments to the components and to the granting of a vital space to Mr Kammenos, a policy that leads from the release of Savvas Xiros and the tolerance to the skepticisms to the relics in the Constitution and the lambs in Woudi. Is it true, on the left, that the policy of the Independent Greeks on the issue of refugees is being adopted? Rise and shine! These people didn't come to Greece to melt, they came looking for a place in the sun. You cannot see things as a distraction from being misled by public opinion and refugees. There is a need for cross-party consultation, because a great deal needs to be done, and we need to destroy the myths of racism and xenophobia, to build structures and procedures according to the law. That will enable us to become reliable interlocutors in Europe, not with anti-European impressions about internal consumption. Apply the existing legal framework. Update Action Plan for Management of Migration Flows adopted in 2010 by the European Commission, because so you will only be able to claim more resources to deal with the problem. Are you left to share the country in areas of influence? Thrace and National Defense granted it to the Independent Greeks, the universities and the initiative for changes in justice in the occupations, education in the party, public administration in Mr. Katrugalos. Close your eyes to the citizens and invite them to seek a left bar in the Koroni this time. We're looking for all of this to find out where the left is. Well, no. The new modern left cannot be the concept of the Independent Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, we have told you that the draft law we are debating today is deeply conservative. We have not heard from you a single word about the threat posed by modern democracies from terrorism. Let prisoners be fired on such matters only if they are individually judged by the judicial authorities, and each individual case with its specific characteristics. But insist here all on the moral and political misrepresentation of these crimes. In this climate the government is asking us to legislate without delay in a particular parliamentary struggle. We told you yesterday, Minister, not to bring the bill to plenary unless the occupations have stopped. So you have no right today to speak of slander. You had the opportunity to stop this whole debate. We asked you to relieve the Greek Parliament of the pressure on the extremist extra-institutional factors asking for what else? The fulfilment of SYRIZA's election promises. There is a generalised sense in society that the state is being blackmailed by extremes and, unfortunately, it is not because of the terroristism of the Vice-Population Officer. It is the government itself and its extreme interlocutors, who have made a great deal of reference for the disorientation of the procedure, so that the debate often extends to matters outside the bill. Also, unfortunately, the government did everything it could to justify the opinions that they want to be brought forward and behave by extreme conquests. How else can we interpret the bill as responding to very specific requests, very specific circles supporting very specific categories of prisoners for serious organised crime? How else can we interpret the zeal and study of the Ministry of Justice to prioritise this bill against others announced by the Minister himself? What changed to the government's agenda? You are insisting on provisions which, as we have repeatedly stressed, raise serious issues for the protection of the rights of prisoners, the preservation of a peaceful and safe living in prisons, and public security itself. You go ahead with arrangements and payment of letters, and there are very specific points in the draft law that makes this clear. First, the dogmatic abolition of the highest security prisons. It appears that the government was unable to remove the memorials with an article, coming to do this in Type III prisons. Of course this option responds to the election commitment of SYRIZA. It does not, however, answer the safety issues that led to the creation of these structures that are similar to them elsewhere in Europe, because there is no concern about what will happen next day, when we all know that there are no safety wings in Greek prisons other than Domos. Where will the dangerous prisoners be transferred? They're going back to where they were? The absolute abolition of Type III prisons restores the dangerous prisoners to their former regime of sovereignty in regional prisons. How will other prisoners and penitentiaries be protected against threats, extortion and abuse? I want to repeat and make it clear that we are not dogmaticly defenders of the type III prisons. But their automatic, sloppy dismantling concerns us very much. Instead of creatively interfering with the terms of the operation of security prisons, instead of creating more security wings in more shops to combat the overconcentration mentioned in the explanatory statement, you prefer to increase the chances of the violence being exported to society, ultimately undermining public security. Along with the highest security prisons, unfortunately, Minister, you are finally abolishing security itself. The second point on which the government's insistence is apparent is that you refuse to introduce exceptions to the provisions of the Penitentiary Legislation and the provisions on the dismissal of detainees with disabilities or over-aged persons. You proceed to horizontal redundancies without any criteria, no restrictions. You don't even anticipate the judgement of a judiciary. We insist that serious and serious offences such as recent treason, terrorist acts and rape must be excluded. It is characteristic that such exceptions had been provided for in all the relevant initiatives of the Ministry of Justice, and by n. No L 4043/2012 and the recent n. Date of birth: (a) 4274/2014. We are wondering the truth: What are the benefits of this intervention? Suppose you succeed in dismissing a thousand people. The seven hundred will come to you immediately from the bookings. How, then, will the situation improve? How are we supposed to save the sentences from the European Court of Justice for the inhuman conditions of detention? No convictions will be spared because, quite simply, no definitive, no convincing solution will give the chronic problem of the Greek prisons. On the issue of disabled detainees, I repeat that Members are neither doctors nor judges. This is a work of scientific and judicial nature, and the crisis to stop the creation of the sentence should be left to the competent institutions, as it has so far been. So the exceptions are needed here too. It is legal and practically necessary to filter the judgment. In the past few days, in the committee responsible, many seats were placed with a different sign. We have preferred to make creative opposition, to put all the issues on their real foundations, and it is good that some of our comments have been taken into account by the Minister. We will be voting in favour of some provisions of the bill, particularly those concerning drugs. We expect to see if Article 2 is separated into different paragraphs. We are all saying this responsibly, because we are well aware of the situation in prisons. We heard majority MPs protesting the image of the prisons delivered by previous governments. We have heard Minister Voutsi saying that the penitentiary system does not provide any penitentiary of any kind. We know all about this. No one can hide behind his finger and ideological obsession. In Greek prisons there is a humanitarian crisis, a humanitarian tragedy and I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who disputes this. That is exactly the situation we need to change. That is precisely why we talked about the reform at all the meetings of the committee responsible. That is why we insist and call for major historical reforms to be speeded up in the areas of criminal justice and the penitentiary system. With the new codes: Criminal, Penitentiary and Criminal Procedure. With infrastructure strengthening, staff training, the creation of modern inter-educational structures for minors. By modernising our Criminal Law, strengthening alternative forms of punishment, decriminating low-value acts. Only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, and not with a few more fragmentary, individual provisions, will the Greek state stand up to the people who are living today in an inhuman, restrictive environment, that of the Greek prison. Let's not let this opportunity go lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of special speakers has been completed. We are entering the list of common speakers. Mr Socrates Famelos will come to Stepma, followed by Mrs Bakoyannis, who took the place of Mr Tasoula, who retains it for later and will follow Mrs Bakoyannis, as requested by the honourable President of PASOK, Mr Venizelos. Here, Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, starting with a circle of Members' seats, I am obliged to reinstate the debate on the basis of the draft law which we are debating today. I think that in this debate we will be able to explore the reasons and the real reasons why opposition overshadows the real arguments and the issue of this bill. However, I cannot be tempted to say that it is understandable why the New Democracy's proliferation is seeking a conservative, a shift of delay for the country. But for us, it is strange to hear criticism from the Left and the Left's word from a party which has been the fatherrache of the most conservative, the most unequivocal, the most - if you like - an unjust turn in Greece over the last three years. That's what we heard from the last speaker. However, these issues to which we must address, the issues to which we must respond - and we must all respond together - are the following: do we want to protect our country from crime? Do we want a lower or higher crime? Do we want to pursue crime prevention policies or leave them all undisturbed vine, as it has been so far? Do we want to keep the young people away from crime? Do we want to be a safer country? Do we want the legitimacy to be restored to Greece? At the same time we want to honour the European path and save fines from the European Court of Justice? You will tell me this: Is it possible to solve all this with the prison status, namely whether prisons, prisons will be in line with the international legal community and follow the democratic and humanitarian features introduced by the bill? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only way we can make a turn in the country and in the culture of society and avoid crime. I will read to you what the director of prisons in a European country, in prison whose retreat to crime amounts to only 16%: 'By making someone suffer you do nothing. His punishment was to lose his freedom. By treating someone as an animal in prison, it is most likely that you will make him function as an animal in society as well when he comes out.” This prison, ladies and gentlemen, has 16% relapse. The country conducting such policies - and I do not want to advertise it - has 30%. In other countries of Europe, much larger, followed by another penitentiary system, the retreat into post-trial crime amounts to 60%. This model you want to follow? Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you should do. It is very specific and it is not about the impression of the process you have introduced at the beginning. But, because the brightest part of our country, the most hopeful is youth, what does incarceration mean to minors? What does it mean to have minors in prisons, and how much does it discipline and prevent crime? Let me tell you that our country has the highest percentage, the largest number of minor offenders and minor prisoners in Europe, and this is in total contrast with the European authorities. There are countries such as Spain that have no minors inside prisons. We have five juvenile prisons. Note: The Counsel of the Child has said that Greek prisons of minors are tragic, their infrastructure is unacceptable, they do not have the minimum hygiene conditions. And you have tolerated this regime to cover it with the operation of the House for so many years now, since the Century. Was that the situation we dreamed of for the future of Greece? But it's not just the conditions that kids live in prisons. It's about 45% of the detained minors return to crime, because it reproduces the crime in prison. So, ladies and gentlemen, we must prevent even the minor offender from going back on the same road for all his life, and the prisons must be a centre of penitentiary, a precautionary system for crime, rather than being lured into a catastrophic catastrophe, into an avalanche of reproduction. The European path, the European accession of the country, obliges us to change it. You disagree with us and what you really want is something that needs to be answered at today's sitting. The government has submitted a bill which quite simply says "we want good prisons in our country, so that our society can be safer and the principles of humanism are respected". What was described during the debate on the bill in committee and described it eloquently and Mr Kikilis and Mr Athanasios - I mean, with the situation that existed before, the booze-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-loo, even with helicopters - is something that we all find, if you like, disagree. Are we going to change it? Because, as far as I understand it, the attitude of counterpopulation to not change anything in prisons is to maintain the same situation. Is that what you want us to do? In other words, you are advocating an iniquity regime, with a regime of impunity, with a regime in place for anyone who wants to go out, because it is quite simply not the prisons that already have 25% more people. The choice of the bill is a choice that is fully in line with the institutions and those who from the evil say that SYRIZA's motives, even the government of national salvation, are out of the way, are practically lying and dragging society into a way that has no way out. Because the only one who is applying the institution's proposal today is the Justice Minister with the bill. Because the European institutions and bodies of the Citizens' and Child's Counsellor, who had taken their seats during the previous parliamentary term, propose what the bill says. Only Shoeble's extra-institutional parrots, BILD, say not to apply it. We must therefore be serious and say that, according to the institutions, according to the organised functioning of society and without obeying external institutional pressures for something that we have already tabled in the programming speech, we will also bring legality and honest and equal cooperation with international bodies back in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, the contents of the bill, first of all, operate in anti-crime, because they do not reproduce the birthplaces of violence and crime within prisons. Unfortunately, the reproduction of violence is a daily life in prisons. At the same time, they are both of a penitentiary and legal nature and are lying to those who use half the minister's phrases to say that they have the bill. That's not what the Minister said. He said that it would be complemented by the Penal Code and by the Criminal Code, because it is unequivocal to have safe operation of prisons, to obey international conditions and to respect humanism at all levels, both children and people with disabilities and the elderly. That is the single logic of the bill at the moment. I cannot understand this: is it not simple to allow the five hundred six prisoners - who are no longer prisoners, are they no longer accused, but are guests, foreigners in our prisons - to go to their countries? What's more reasonable to reduce this load from the prisons? Why cannot we agree on what is too simple a logic? Let me say that the government's choice of targeting the special social groups of minor offenders and SMEs must be combined with our own function within society, with a comprehensive reintegration framework. Because the position of prisons for these categories of people follows them everywhere and cannot be joined either in society or in the family or at work. We must appeal to incorporate them into the life of society, and not continue to leave both society and Greece, as they have done negative policies that have been implemented for so many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that both at the level of prisons and at the level of penitentiary shops and in the question of justice, our country must make a big turn. Make a big turn in the Enlightenment of the French Revolution, which you have forgotten, to make a big shift in the values of man. But first of all to make a big shift in honesty and justice. That's what this bill does, and that's why we're going to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Femmel. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor from New Democracy. The following is followed by Mr. Antonio Gregos and Mr. Panagiotis Kartsoulis after the President of PASOK. Here you go, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ronald Stewart, John Barrier, Omer Sipachioglou, Costis Peratic, Steven Saunders, Thanos Axarlian murdered them. In the murders of William Nordin, Paul Bakoyannis, Chetin Jorgou, Michael Vranopoulos accomplice, was Savvas Xiros. Dozens of civilians, workers, police officers were injured by the activities of Savva Dryros and are still suffering handicapped, blind, unable to work. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of greater crisis, where Greece would need all its forces united in a national front to deal with the crisis, the government chooses with the draft "Reforms of criminal provisions, repealing detention stores of type III and other provisions" to draw up new separatist lines and to spread biased logic. The Minister for Justice cannot understand the importance of his words when he states - even if he took it back - that the Greek state blinded Savvas Xiros or that behind the hoods there are people, that humanity serves when the executive and legislative power intervenes by announcing irrevocable decisions of justice. The introduction by Mr Paradise of this bill has opened a great deal of discussion, which must concern us all, but also everyone personally. The Minister comes with this bill to intervene in court decisions taken, and at the level of the Ice Arena, which the prosecutor who rejected the complaints from the accused was the Minister of SYRIZA himself, the Minister for the fight against corruption and economic crimes, Mr Panagiotis Nikoloudis. Didn't you really ask, Mr. Paraskevi, Mr. Nicholudis? Is SYRIZA's Minister for Human Feelings and Sensitivity? I would therefore like to remind those who have possibly forgotten or those who are younger and do not know why Savvas Xirus has been convicted. Savvas Xiros has been sentenced five times for life and a thousand seventy-five years of imprisonment for participation in murders, armed robberies, explosions and integration into the terrorist organisation "17 November". He tried, convicted, and murdered William Nordin. He tried, convicted, and murdered Roland Stewart. Trial and convict Yannis Paleokrassas. But he murdered Thanos Axarlian who, as we were told afterwards, was just a side loss. This, of course, did not prevent them from partying at night, after his murder, as they proudly proclaimed. The list of Savva Dryros victims is long. There are citizens and police blind, crippled, with huge health problems because they had the misfortune to have shifts when he put bombs or just passed by when he decided to kill. I'll finish the murder of Paul Bakoyannis. The trigger was pulled by Koufontinas and Kostaris. In the murder, Xeros participated with George. We are talking about the release of this man today. And it sounded like amazing things these days. Conquests were held at universities, at the Rectorship of the University of Athens, at the courtyard of the Greek Parliament, at the offices of SYRIZA with a central slogan "Lefteria to the fighter Savva Xiros". And that is what I am going to stand for, ladies and gentlemen. What is the message that the government is sending to the Greek people today? That Savvas Dried is a fighter? In what? A democracy fighter, during which she put bombs? An anti-fascist fighter? But is there a more extreme form of fascism than that that that takes human lives? A fighter against the enemy, the conqueror? A human rights fighter who murders 20-year-old Axarlian, who began his life with dreams and principles? Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to put yourself on the table. For me, a fighter is Manolis Glezos, yes. The fighter was also Paul Bakoyannis, who, Paul Bakoyannis in 1968, had dedicated his book to those who did not submit to totalitarianism, and I feel that today I should remind you of his story. Paul was born in Evritania, the thirty - three inhabitants. He was a son of a priest. To go to elementary school, he was walking every day for two hours. To go to high school, he left his house and went to Agrinio, where he was sharing manabic species. He then succeeded from the first in Law of Athens, but chose Panteion, because there the presences were not mandatory and could serve in the port, which offered him a wage he needed to survive. He later left Germany with no word in German to make the Greeks voice there later. He fought the junta with all his powers and the junta fought him by putting a bomb in his house. It was the first attempt at murder, but it didn't work. So, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, be careful when you talk to us about junta. He came back after Postpopulation, with dreams of the development of his homeland Evrytania and national reconciliation. Murdered on September 26, 1989, by Koufantina, Kostaris, Xero. So if in my vocabulary a agonist is described, he's definitely not the killer, he's the victim. Here, then, we must consult, ladies and gentlemen. I have been a member of the Council of Europe for many years. I believe in the human conditions of detention, I believe that the state has an obligation to provide them and everything that has been heard here is correct, by Mr Fofila and all of you who have spoken of the terrible detention conditions. After all, the European Court of Human Rights has held that the state has a duty to treat the weak prisoner so that he can serve his sentence. It does not say that the state must release it and leave because it is incapable of providing it at least these conditions. Meanwhile, to know and what we say, Savvas Xiros has exploited all the benefits the state offers, nursed in all hospitals in the country. On the contrary, Stelios Kelis, who may not be aware of his name, who was hit with Axarlian from Xirus, lost his eye and paid himself all the surgery he has done. I didn't see anyone fighting for him. Unfortunately, experience has shown, as in the case of Christoulos Xiros, that there are people who, as Isocrates says, take illegality as freedom, unparalleledness of speech as equality and anarchy as bliss, and that is why they behave as they behave. It is no coincidence that no democracy is negotiating with terrorists, Mr Paradoxopoulos. Because you didn't negotiate with women prisoners who have children in prison in terrible conditions. You didn't negotiate with people else, but only those terrorists. Because the logic of terrorism, ladies and gentlemen, is in direct contrast with the very cell of democracy. In the cases of Xero and Tsakalou - so that we do not forget this case - direct interference by legislative power in the decisions of justice is the biggest mistake today. Gentlemen of the government, you open a courier that dissolves the justice system. You ignore the Union of Judges and Prosecutors and the scientific community. You are ignoring the President of the Bar Association, who makes it clear that there is no clear legal reason for this regulation to be adopted and points out that the dismissal of sentenced persons should be made exceptionally and strictly subject to strict conditions, if it is shown that their health status is absolutely incompatible with their detention. And I ask you: How much is human life appreciated? With a year and a half in jail? So, as much as slandering defamation? And what justice system have you seen this in? I read an article in the 'SGEI' and heard that the following argument was used in the Standing Committee. We respect, he says, the suffering of the victims, but we do not legislate in the heat of a soul. And it's right. And some of us voted to abolish the death penalty before the assassins of 17 November were arrested. I have also personally done so, ladies and gentlemen, because I deeply believe that the death penalty is contrary to every principle of democracy and the rule of law. But the terrorists imposed this sentence on their victims, judging and condemning themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, ask yourself and sense the responsibility you are bringing to perpetuate the logic of hooded, arsonists, occupies, terrorists. Greece cannot be the only European country in which this phenomenon still rises and you had the illusion, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that by coming to power and showing humanism to these phenomena you would find understanding, you would fulfill your political rushphetti, you would appease the various extremists and extremists, but the opposite happened. Mr. Paraskevi, who negotiates with the terrorists, believes that for Xero's blindness the state is responsible and not himself, as if the bomb he was preparing would not have any other victims. Mr. Paraparapopoulos should know that hoods he talks about were worn by the traitors in the Occupation. The Ku Klux Klan also wore hoods today those who want to hide their faces by force. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is not avenged, but democracy is not blackmailed and democracy is not feared. My message today to all those who are threatening us, through their websites, trying to frighten us and make us silence, demanding the release of Savva Xiros, is simple: democracy is not terrorized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. The President of PASOK, Mr Evangelos Venizelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, the issues of penitentiary policy are at the heart of the rule of law and therefore of the institutions and the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is being offered to see more overall where the democratic and legal institutions of the country are, where our country as a whole is, and where it is walking. I wonder: Three months after the elections, what has changed for the best in reality rather than in the game of impressions or rather in the game of illusion? I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, and I address each and every one of you - the country has a strategy, it has a rhythm, it has a perspective? My impression is that the government has lost control over all the critical fronts, of course on the front of the economy and the negotiation, on the front of security, immigration policy and institutions as a whole, including justice and the penitentiary system. And I do not mention, for the economy of the speech, the country's foreign policy and position in international relations. Who's a common denominator? The common denominator is a double language, another inside, another out and double motion, a regression back to all fronts. We have and we are negotiating in the economy for an honest compromise, but also rhetorical preparation of the rhetoric by voting for bills and other initiatives that make it difficult for a quick and good agreement. We also have a Committee on Truth for the Debt here in Parliament and a regular instalment payment from the government to the International Monetary Fund, normal debt service and absolute silence for new parametric changes that have already been foreseen since 2012. We also have a signature of the extension of the memorandum and a refusal to extend and ratify it by Parliament. We also have "closing the eye" in lawlessness, hoodiers, occupations and suffocating control of the state with customer appointments of SYRIZA and relatives. We have and await a solution to the country's economic problem from Europe, but also an anti-European nationalist exacerbation with a risky management of the country's relations with the United States, with Russia, with China. We also have a message to migrant traffickers and refugees that Greece is a good portal of entry in Europe and a persistent demand for a common European policy based on the regulatory framework of Europe and the proportionate burden-sharing between Member States. All together! One moment, one second, another moment, other inside, other out, resulting in immorality. We have a complete weakness of clarification and implementation of a clean, stable and unified government policy in all areas, ideological and dangerous approach, ruthless declarations by ministers that touch the line of graphics, incapable of assessing the real correlation of forces, opening unnecessary fronts, risking large national interests. We have a fire game, unless there is a hidden plan, which is the absolute political deception of citizens. Let us see what happens to the institutions too. In the economy and in the negotiation we go day to day - day, week - week with various landmarks moving, it is'mobile celebration'. The Eurogroup of 20 February, the Eurogroup of 24 April - this is indeed a mobile feast, Saint George - always goes after the Great Week and for Sarah - now we have the Eurogroup of 8 May, then we have the final deadline for the extension on 30 June. The government has the impression that it is making time while it is not making time. We waste time as a nation and eat our flesh against the economy. We're constantly discovering new myths. Now, in view of the large bond terminations held by the European Central Bank, ending in July and August, I see the argument that "do not worry, we will find something, these bonds are governed by Greek law, so we may be able to make up for something". They are governed by Greek law. I had the honour as Minister of Finance to maintain them under Greek law because it is a special portfolio of support for the Member States what the European Central Bank has and the Government at the same time claims that the European Central Bank should buy Greek bonds at all times to help the Greek economy. Please and at the same time threaten the European Central Bank. Please for more ELA, for quantitative relaxation, for bond rescheduling as a pledge, in order to really borrow the Greek banks that lose deposits and threaten to pay off. We went to do the same with the IMF, but Mr Varoufakis didn't pick us up and finally came to his knees and confessed to Mrs. Lagard in Easter. But we already have an internal cessation of payments a long time ago. The supposed dilemma "pay wages and pensions and not international obligations" is boomerang because in the end you will not have to pay, as we have said, no wages and pensions the next day. All the liquidity has been sucked. Banks are constantly weakened and all fiscal and macroeconomic figures are deteriorating. Not a word of growth. Disarming investments, restoring the toughest and most extreme state of affairs. What is happening today in Athens with the parallel demonstrations on Skouries' investment is characteristic. It is the epitome of the lack of an integrated development policy, environmental protection, investment and employment. Of course, the country's position is constantly weakening. He said the Minister of State yesterday: "Don't worry, the partners will be back, because they don't want Greece to leave the euro." Yes, they do not want but there is always - I have said it infinitely - bankruptcy within the euro, being a black hole in the euro. And because, says the Minister, the deadlock or the accident is not excluded, it will be their fault, it will be their fault, the Europeans, and because developments are historically important, it does not hurt a referendum. The hidden paper is the government's decision to play the card of exiting the euro, transferring responsibility either to 'bad' Europeans or to the Greek people. About what? For budgets? This referendum is forbidden in constitutional terms. To leave the euro? That's enough. We do not even need to hold the referendum. The destruction is done automatically. We blackmail them, threatening to kill ourselves and thus mourning and distressing them and wearing black, but we will not exist in this universe of developed economic Europe. It is not the Europeans, it is the Greek people who have been misled, and one of them still thinks that there is a tough negotiation. Besides, a percentage of him expected a good solution in Moscow or perhaps Beijing. Only these solutions don't come that way. They never came to Cyprus either. In the meantime, we lose the primary surplus and the recession returns. We had formulated tough and difficult red lines. We didn't close the negotiation, but we had a timetable and a plan to get out of the memorandum. Now what is the honest compromise that could be the ideal solution? What are we asking? We ask for a loan from Europeans and a continuation of the disbursement of the IMF loan without conditions. We are, in fact, asking for the repackage of the remaining chapters of the current programme and we would consider it a great success if Greece stayed out of the market for an undetermined period, dependent on the partners and their loans in a continuous memorandum. What we were talking about is Memorandum 3 is the least, because here we are talking about Memorandum 3, 4 and so on. It is a success if Greece is left for an undetermined period of time in the margin of developments, without renewed productive tissue, without any competitiveness, without any new intervention in the debt - a good thing for this - without the Memorandum of Understanding to apply pension cuts to pensions that we had - it was the first red line - but with the immediate risk of now collapseing a system based on overtaxation and declaring the middle class, which is considered to belong to anyone who has income above the tax-free limit. I have said this - and I have said this - about the absolute political imprisonment of the government - neither a rupture nor a compromise, nor a backward one - and the Greek people's absolute misledness. The same goes for the front of public order and security, precisely. We have the unprecedented phenomenon of public repeated calls by the Minister responsible for the Prime Minister to clarify that the government's position is respect for legitimacy. Look out, it's not self-evident! The Minister asks the Prime Minister publicly. It's never happened before! We've got constant squatting phenomena. The Rectorship of the University of Athens is not the only but the most obvious of these issues. He was preceded by the Senate of the University of Thessaloniki. And all of this is described by the government as 'peripheral events', and the reactions of the 'terroristism' propagandas. And what do the competent authorities do? Who are they waiting for? And I don't mean the government and the Prime Minister, I mean the judicial and public prosecutors, which in this case do not need any governmental permission. And I will not comment on this as an institutional issue, the unspecified one went - come from the Ministry of Public Order as it is from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Justice and Tubalin, but I see that the Ministry of Justice is under the high political supervision of the Ministry of Interior. The same is true of migration and refugee flows. We had another phenomenon. Fifty days three Deputy Ministers were announced, but they were not appointed and did not perform duties, including the Minister for Migration Policy. We had public dissidents on the issue of Amygdaleza - we do not forget it - and the wrong message to the traffickers that Greece is a convenient country, because it will send refugees, atypical immigrants with temporary papers to Europe and with the jihadists. These have been said by the top government ministers, the Foreign Minister, the Minister of National Defence, and no one has been taken to class. Of course, at the same time, we are calling for European solidarity and a proportionate burden-sharing, without talking about Directive 55/2001, which was implemented in Kosovo, and we could ask for something similar. We are not taking advantage of the fact that Greece has the Commissioner responsible for immigration. And he didn't get him by accident. A political plan was implemented to get Mr. Avramopoulos this critical and sensitive portfolio. Of course, we are putting the validity of the Greek passport, of the Greek documents, without needing - if necessary - to comment again on the threats of Mr Kammenos to read out where he is going to take place? Which country? What is the country of origin? And we are not talking at all about the common foreign and security policy, which is the real issue. Because if the European Union cannot exert its influence politically, so that the causes of refugee and immigration flows cease, Europe does not really have a solution. All countries have received percentages of refugees and immigrants, which are larger than the countries of the South, unfortunately, with which we have not coordinated. I do not see what coordination we have done all these weeks with Italy and Malta, which was a daily practice until the elections. Under these conditions, the debate on the Ministry of Justice's bill of law begins in relation to the penitentiary. Look, it was our position, as Mrs Gennimata quite rightly said, that the debate in plenary should not begin before the occupation of the Rectorship of the University of Athens expires, in order to make it seem that the government and the majority of the House are not interchangeable and are not bent towards groups that have as their political aim to facilitate the perpetrators of deceptive terrorist acts. The debate began within the week of the Publication by way of derogation from parliamentary customs and customs. Also, it is obvious that the legislator at times must intervene to dismantle prisons. We've done it many times too. He remembered that nineteen years ago I was Minister of Justice and took up my duties with all prisons under insurrection and occupation. And I did send my special representatives, in order for prisoners to return to their cells and stop having directors and penitentiary officers, with the police being unable to intervene - he could not execute the orders of the prosecutors. And we have managed to restore order and make a great intervention of a humanitarian nature in our criminal law. And he had helped me then and Mr. Paramadopoulos and Mr. Panousis as professors of criminal law and forensics and penitentiary law the other, as Mr. Loverdos had helped me in his capacity at the time. But it is another thing to promote alternative penalisation systems, but you must also say that the judge must respect Article 6 of the Constitution and not impose temporary detentions, imprisonment, that is, disproportionately many and large, because we have an unjustly large number of cases in prisons, and you must do what is done with this bill. We have to intervene on a front of substantive and procedural criminal law, which will bring Greece closer to the European average, such as election, application of the principle of proportionality and abuse. It is unique for Greek criminal law, which raises up everything and threatens everything with life imprisonment. That's what we have to do. To intervene in the body of effective criminal law, to resolve questions of the application of Article 6 of the Constitution in relation to the sub-judgments, to modernise the penitentiary system and not to negotiate with the terrorists! It is tragic that the relatives of the victims of terrorism are following the meeting. Why? Because the government's initiatives break down the single front of the democratic arch against terrorism. And that is a tragic mistake. Instead of breaking down the single front against terrorism, we should have steeled it. Because the place needs a number of issues, where there is consensus, unity and coexistence. So this is a huge mistake, and all of this is actually reminiscent of a question: where is the country going? Does the government know where he's taking the country? As I said, there is a lack of national strategy at all levels. There are also - and I would like to stress this - in my opinion uncontrolled internal contradictions within the majority. These contradictions do not concern the interior of SYRIZA, only or mainly. They are now about the correlations within the single worthwhile and ideological majority of SYRIZA - ANEL, which has been teratogenicly established on a dangerous nationalist basis. This is a huge issue, manifested in foreign policy, defence and security policy, in the economy, everywhere. It's a big deal for the country. We therefore need to give answers about all this. You believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the government has an answer which it does not say. Look: The most lenient and optimistic version is that such a response does not exist and that we go "the wave", "the weather", as the seafarers say. The pessimistic version is that there is a "hidden plan", which leads the country decades back. However, this is a huge historical responsibility, for which you have neither a mandate nor an authorisation nor legalisation to proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Antony Gregos has the floor since the Golden Dawn. Mr Panagiotis Kartsoulis from Potami is followed by Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and Mrs. Olga Gerovasili, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA. Mr. Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Since you're present, it's good to make a remedial statement. You said that on the Nicoludi list there are some remittances and testimonies abroad, except for some party. You forgot to say about Golden Dawn. For the other party, I don't know, I haven't seen the list Nicolude, but for the Golden Dawn, I have decided that the ILO and we guarantee it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u167	I intend to come back today, Mr Grego. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President, and we keep this. Because that's what the Greek people know, but it's good to hear. I shall start with a complaint from public sector workers. Because I've had a lot of meetings with them lately, both in my previous term and in it, public sector workers say that: Firstly, it is in no way inconsistent with the WTO - OTA and ADED communication on the trial of the Golden Dawn, which they consider unacceptable, provocative and anti-democratic. Secondly, in many cases the leadership of ADED sold out the workers' interests for micro-party interests and opaque procedures. Thirdly, many fellow civil servants from all the sites vote and support the legitimate political movement of the People's Association - Golden Dawn and condemn the parties that led them to poverty and tolerance. Fourthly, the Executive Committee of the WTO-TA and the ADED and the federations should not have any involvement in judicial matters. After all, we did not see anything like this happening to other trials of political interest. So let the workers, who enter the party offices in order to become MPs at some point, do all this and leave the judgments of the Golden Dawn trial to others. After all, the Golden Dawn has been judged by the Greek people. Her MPs have been elected again and again and the people are the supreme judge. We talked too much about the process and the New Democracy and the PASOK spoke about the procedure. He spoke about the PASOK and the New Democracy in the process, I repeat. Who? Those who have proved to have devastated the Constitution on the basis of a plan and have offended it. And they were hit by an hour's delay. We've heard of humanity. Because we have experienced certain situations which are unheard of for you, I did not see you showing proper sensitivity in cases involving the persecuted Members of the Golden Dawn. I am thinking of some incidents when they were summoned to an apology at the court of Appeal and when they were guarding the Golden Dawn MP. I remember Nikos Kouzilo - and it's not populism, I've really experienced it - when he was guarded and his mother tells me: "They guarded my Nikos, the one who came to the house, emptyed the closets from the clothes, emptied the closets from the food and gave them to the world." Nor did I see the same sensitivity when taking Eliopoulos to see his newborn child handcuffed for an hour only in the hospital. It would be advisable to show proper sensitivity. We also heard about violence. When did you issue a conviction regarding the dozens of wounded by the Golden Dawn by attacks on the known left-hand raids? When did you condemn the dozens of bomb attacks? Finally - most importantly - when did you condemn the terrorists who murdered the two Golden Dawn boys? We didn't see any such sensitivity there, either. There are - to remind you here - two crimes, which will obviously remain unsolved and will never be arrested by those who committed them. And if they're arrested, we don't know how long they're staying in jail. The first crime is that of Marfin, where three people were burned, and the second one I mentioned before the murder of Manos and George. You spoke about democracy and about enemies of democracy. Many are the enemies of democracy, but not us. These hoods, known to everyone, are the enemies of democracy. They all know what they're talking about. They are the ones who go and write even outside the House: "Batsoi, you will be eaten by your children." And they're unorthodox. They also say: 'War on democracy'. These hoodmen with their symbol outside the temple of democracy are the enemies of democracy. We even heard about relations with justice. Did he talk to who? The New Democracy and the PASOK spoke of relations with justice. Fortunately - I repeat - there are no judges involved in the known circuits. Fortunately! I'm stressing it. They talked about universities and they say there's asylum of ideas. All ideas? And our own ideas? Can someone enter a university and declare a nationalist? No, of course not. In two or three minutes, he'll be dead. There's no need to be the University of Asylum of Ideas. The ideas are spreading. There's the internet, there's the public spaces. On the contrary, in universities for over 40 years, there have been too many crimes, many crimes. I will mention a few: a recommendation for a gang, a weapon, foreign property damage, theft, drug trafficking, dangerous physical damage, resistance, excitement, and, above all, a symbol attack, this with the burning of the flag. That's what's going on in universities today. The whole world knows it, and he knows it. You also mentioned in some cases that the Golden Dawn has done some illegal acts. They've become courts and they've been acquitted, but no channel has said anything. However, because the trial of the Golden Dawn is imminent, there will also be a great deal of party justice. You're talking about refugees. They're not refugees. Refugees were our grandparents who left Pontto, left Asia Minor, left Cyprus. These are illegal immigrants. There may be a refugee, but they are mostly illegal immigrants. Stop this! And above all, New Democracy should not invoke this problem, because they were the first to open the border, they were the ones who brought the first illegal people, as you, as you say them, migrants, Albanians, Bulgarians, Romanians, who were the ones who, on the basis of an organized plan, wanted to hand over the country even to the mercy of the jihadists. They voted for some anti-racist bills and something like that, and now they come out and they're cut. With regard to the bill, our special speaker and our parliamentary representative will be mentioned. As far as the amendment concerning dependent persons is concerned, we are in favour of it, but there must be a great deal of infrastructure here. For older people, too, we agree on the creation of their home sentence. We also agree that it takes staff to meet the needs of the guards. This is referred to in Article 10. I would like you to be here in Stepma, one of the rivals who are illegally imprisoned, because you really haven't felt it - my competitors have felt it - what it is to get you locked up illegally in a prison, hold your family, watch it for certain days and hours, and at 9.00 at night, close the whistle and all - I repeat - done under a so-called rule of law. All of this - and I repeat again - is unfair. The days have come to prove the innocence of the Golden Dawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr Grego. The Greek Parliament also honors citizens of the world. We have young people from Denmark and the Netherlands. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-five students and students from schools in the Netherlands and Denmark. We welcome you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We wish the best and we'd like the best for lovers of Greece! Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u170	We didn't get it. Will you translate that to us, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u171	They all figured it out. I wanted to applaud everyone. Mr Panagiotis Kartsoulis has the floor. I have already announced the Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr SYRIZA, Mrs Gerovas and the Golden Dawn, Mr Lagos. This is the turn, ladies and gentlemen. Here, Mr. Cartassouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece's penitentiary system is commonly regarded as a problem, and indeed one of the unresolved ones. Mistakes and omissions of decades, accompanied by micropolitical choices and party purposes, have led to the creation of this belief. Of course, no goodwill can claim that the problems that the government is required to solve today were created in the context of current governance. The problems were raised over the decades of the New Democracy and PASOK governments and their refusal to attempt the changes needed by the Greek social formation and the penitentiary system in particular are responsible for today's exacerbation of the problems. The government, however, seems to be following the footstep of the former ones. Instead of launching the critical reforms needed, he does not confess it, but appeals to half the truths that allow her to speak whole lies. I will confine myself to some specific examples of time, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister for Justice began his introduction to the relevant parliamentary committee, referring to a recent report by the Council of Europe Commission on the prevention of humiliating treatment. The CPT has, as is well known, noted a large number of poor conditions in the Greek prisons and has formulated their potential situation. Already in March 2011, there have been references to the steady deterioration in the conditions of life and treatment of prisoners. However, the Committee also identified a number of essential structural issues, which undermined efforts to deal with the situation. These issues, however, are in no way dealt with in this bill. In the government's laudable tactics, they are referred for later. Instead, the government appeals to the good old recipes. It dismisses unconditional and also takes unconditional use. Now, how the mass dismissal of the prisoners will cure the lack of a strategic plan for the administration of the prison system, the lack of an effective system of reports and supervision and the ineffective administration of personnel, that is, these are mentioned monotonously by Greek and foreign experts as problems of the penitentiary system, that is only the government is aware of. Rather, selective memory does not allow you, Minister, to withdraw the very clear CPT crisis in its last report in 2014, please, that early release measures have not had the slightest effect. They're not my words. But you're going to tell me: No matter what CPT says and the previous ones didn't do exactly the same? Therefore, colleagues of the SYRIZA, it is enough to follow the hurdle, as the Minister claims all these days, and then we will probably have already reached the reform. But the other, supposedly, reforming the recruitment of additional staff in prisons, which we have little talked about, because there are permanent loopholes to be covered, is also an old incomplete story. If it is assumed that the objective of recruiting prisoners is the safety of prisoners, then it is certain that despite repeated recruitment over the past decade, this objective has not been achieved. The Ministry of Justice, although regularly recruited in prison staff by 2010, did not manage to increase the proportion of penitentiary officials to the prisoners, but rather to reduce them in relation to the 1990s. Please follow the order: In 1990 the rate of personal care was three prisoners to a prisoner, in 1996 it was 3.1 to 1, in 2000 4,7 to 1, in 2008 4,8 to 1 and in March 2014, 6.3 to 1. The reasons for this gradual deterioration were sometimes the high proportion of staff retired or moved in any way, at times the increase in detention stores and the increase in prisoners. However, it is assumed that the increase in detainees would be limited by increasing the limits for the conversion of the suspension and the condition of dismissal. The limits were extended, but the prisoners nevertheless increased. Therefore, no matter how much prison personnel are recruited, no matter how much the limits for the conversion of sentences and the condition of dismissal are extended, the situation will deteriorate, because these measures simply do not cure the substance of the problem. They're not reforms. On the contrary, the obsession - both yours - in these two measures, in releases and recruitments - is a counter-reformation, since they consume critical resources that could be allocated to the reform. For this reason, the truth of April 11, 2014 was enlisted in the prison staff of the detention stores of three hundred and seventy-two former municipal police officers and according to press releases, six hundred and ninety-two were to be recruited. I do not know if this staff were finally recruited. The new leadership of the Ministry of Justice, loyal to the past, goes on both to reduce the limits of the current condition of dismissal and to re-enter prison staff by 86.2% of all recruitments, by which imprisonment staff 58.6% and external guarding 27.6%. The other recruitments involve - please note - 3.4% only for social workers and nursing staff for which you are supposed to care respectively, while 6.9% for administrative and management staff. It is interesting that the budget for prison staff is allocated EUR 8.7 million annually. If this amount of money were to be spent once - and most of all billions - the detention shops would have acquired some sort of technological equipment that is absolutely necessary, such as superstition scanners to detect drugs in the body of the detainees, their computerisation would have gone ahead, installed in some parts of a surveillance mechanism for vulnerable or dangerous prisoners helping with the work of staff and protecting the detainees, would have been purchased machinery needed for their work or the required workshops would have been established. So proceed, gentlemen of the government, to the reforms. Leave easy recipes no matter how convenient they suit you. The country's penitentiary system needs cross sections and not vertebrals, however small and short they serve you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Cartassouli. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Mitsotakis has the floor. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1974 the Hellenic Republic has been in an undeclared war with various manifestations of revolutionary violence. I am referring specifically to the violence that extends from the terrorism of the '17 November' and the 'Revolutionary Race', to molotovs, jazzas, car burns. There was a common denominator in all these forms of violence. That was the refusal of the democratic legal framework and the question of urban democracy in the name of an abstract revolution. We should be quite clear that this violence did not come out of nowhere. It has not developed into an ideological vacuum or obviously it can be attributed to the recent economic crisis and to the poverty it has caused. This violence has very deep causes. But one thing is certain and there is no question of this, namely that this violence has been developed in the spaces of the post-political extreme left and has also found suitable ground on some of the left components. Unfortunately - and this is the truth - an entire generation of left-wing officials has faced this revolutionary violence as a natural extension of political competition, that is, as a kind of policy with other instruments. Of course, for this generation of executives there is a distinction between good and bad violence, that is, the good violence of the molotovs and the bad violence of the Memorandum. As long as the objective is legitimate, and some forms of violence can be tolerated. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] After all, I would like to point out that top SYRIZA officials had previously defended this logic. I am, for example, reading a statement by Mrs Constantinopoulou from the trial of Mrs Constantina Karatsani, who was sentenced to 11 years' imprisonment to participate in the 'Fires of Fire', which then said in a joint statement with her father that the Republic and the Constitution do not threaten the pots of the 'Fires of Fire', but the total defiance of the rule of law. I am also presenting the relevant quote in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What does that mean? It means that the basic principle of urban democracy is that the monopoly of violence belongs only to the state and its official appearances, it is questioned. It has been strongly questioned in recent decades by specific groups that are on the left. Now, this generation that was groomed by that logic came to power. The first thing that this generation is doing - its spokesman is the Minister for Justice who has the legislative initiative - is to bring the House a bill, which despite the good intentions and the many positive provisions it contains, meets on the substance, ladies and gentlemen, all the demands of the anti-democratic area and of the terrorist hunger strikers. In order to be more specific, Mr President, I have done something that I am not used to and which, as you can see, is disgraceful to me, because the internet site is in threat. In particular, I searched the Internet a little bit on the known anti-semitists' websites to see what the anti-semitists' demands are that are being promoted at this time of the day. In particular, I read from a brief text - which I shall be tabling - a statement by a Mr Lambrou Goula, six requests. So let's go see one of the requests at the moment of the anti-civilist space. I'm on my way: Eliminate the hoodie. As far as I know, this is the subject of a parliamentary amendment by SYRIZA. Abolition of high-security prisons. It is provided for in Article 1 of your bill. Immediate release of comrade Savva Dryros. Look out! Not the rest of the disabled, who may actually suffer in tragic conditions today, but only the companion Savva Dryros, anyone else. All right! It is provided for by the provision in the bill. Don't move your head, Minister. You confessed yourself. I also have a proposal for this later. Don't rush!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u175	Home detention, not release.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u176	Don't rush! I then have a proposal on how you can get away from the problem you have raised. I'm continuing with the demands: Removal of forced DNA as evidence. It refers to an amendment by SYRIZA Members. Direct release of the relatives of the “Fires of Fire”. A ministerial amendment is provided for. Of course, the last request is the abolition of the provisions of Law No 187 of the Criminal Code, the terrorist. All right, that's what you missed! We got five out of six. All right, five out of six! [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the Minutes the above and other relevant documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We should be clear. Mrs Bakoyannis said so, and I would like to repeat that - and far from any emotional burden that this debate can actually cause to us - that democracy is certainly not avenged - that is what separates it from terrorism - but is not blackmailed. With the bill you're bringing into the worst case, if we want to be very suspicious, you're redeeming certain notebooks. At best, you simply succumb to an extortion not to be accused of abandoning your old companions. The impression that society is getting, Minister, from this bill, what is it? I wonder. The impression of society is that as if an entire system of power has suddenly been placed in the service of anti-semitists, fighters who are doing hunger strikes in prisons, terrorists, relatives. You give the impression that your only concern is to make their lives easier. And all that in the name of humanity! You have referred to the liberal concept of humanity as if humanity were above the rule of law and the judgments of the courts, as if humanity were only those who were concerned and were not the victims. When you have so many loose ends in the Ministry of Justice - Mr Athanasios who knows them very well - and when we are late in the administration of justice, you have caught a sudden precursor and in the first bill you have a photographic order to release Savva Xiros, five times sentenced to life for equal murders! Residents of today's victims are watching this conversation from the outside. Their voices have only been heard very little. I told you in committee too: they did not burn cars, they did not protest otherwise. They managed their pain with a great deal of dignity and I wonder how these relatives of the victims of terrorism will feel, seeing the conspicuous Greek Republic being subjected to its sworn enemies. You have said that the amendment is not photographic. But you told us in committee that it was about two people and you just told us it might be about some others. We don't know them, we didn't see them. In the committee, however, you said that it was about two people. This in my mind is photographic legacy. In any case, let's assume that it's not photographic or legal. Do you not take into account the fact that the disability invoked by the provision originated from the self-injuriousness of the Xeros himself? Don't you take that into consideration? You told the committee that the Greek state had almost blinded Savva Xero. He's about to raise damages. He will ask for Savvas to be paid Dried with what you say! And I wonder, because the meaning of the convict has been heard many times, has Savvas Dried for his crimes? I haven't heard him make a statement of repentance, recognize his huge mistake, acknowledge that he murdered five people. His brother was planning to blow up the Koudal. Did we forget about these things? Shouldn't you consider that? What punishment is this when the defendant, the prisoner, the one who benefits from the provision has not himself accepted his own error? What kind of penitentiary are we talking about? And how can you be so sure that Savvas Dried can't be operationally active from his home? Will he be prevented by the fact that he's almost blind? I'm not sure! And finally, Minister, how do you understand, how do you deal with the same person who has been sentenced five times to life with someone who has been convicted of one? If you want to prove that the Savva Dried amendment is not photographic, you can do something very simple. Add a provision in point (c) of paragraph 10 of Article 2 which provides that in the event of multiple sentences for life, the 10-year limit shall be increased proportionately. Why don't you do it? Twice life, twenty years. After all, that is why someone is sentenced to two and three times life rather than one. So if you really want, Mr Minister, to prove that it is not photographic that the amendment, in this glorious field, is not a photographic one. Do this and I will withdraw what I said about the photography of the amendment. You will then have the floor and you will be able to answer what I have told you and, of course, by the end of tomorrow's sitting to make any legislative improvements. You know, however, the real risk of all this debate is not only the bankruptcy of the economy - which I fear we will not avoid - but the bankruptcy of democracy, which I fear you are systematically conducting. Because when the institutions operate - even as they operated in Greece - it will be possible to correct even the worst economic collapse. But when the institutions do not work, when the vicious cycle of lawlessness and tolerance continues, there is unfortunately no future for this country. I fear that you have strategy to serve in many different ways this vicious circle of lawlessness and tolerance. Where should I start? Occupation? Eighteen days have passed, and still the university's main building is occupied, Mr. President! I don't know if the government's premiere to pass the bill on Thursday and Friday before Thomas was so that you can finally give an alibi to the occupants to leave, since you don't want to deal with them any other way. A University paralysed, a historic building delivered to "bugs" and drug dealers and a minister who says and writes - and I will agree with him - that "whoever believes that our education allows us any lawful action, not only does not have anything to do with the Left, but has nothing to do with democracy". That's great! I couldn't agree more. But in practice what does Mr. Panus do? He is a Deputy Minister and I remind him that he is directly referring to the Prime Minister and he is taking orders from him. Why can't he apply the law, as he sees it? The Minister's not a commentator. I imagine you'll agree to that. He's got executive power. If he can't apply the law, the best and most honest Mr. Panoussis can do is resign. At least that will be consistent with his ideas and opinions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two more minutes. As far as the issue of illegal immigration is concerned, I will not say much. I'll just say one thing. Yes, the problem is European and you are right to say it. What credibility will this government go to negotiate a change in the Dublin II Treaty, when the Minister of National Defence has said that he will open the border and send jihadists to Berlin? Does this strengthen the country's negotiating position? Will we achieve a real South alliance to deal with major refugee flows? I really wonder if this is how you serve, gentlemen of the government, national interests. And I'm closing up with this. You know, in this Chamber I had the pleasure of meeting some of the great left fighters, as was Charilaos Florakis and Leonidas Kyrikos. I wonder what they will think from up there - or from where they are, in any case - of all those who have fought for equality, social solidarity and the support of the weak in looking at and seeing this government. What exactly is this Left that cannot protect cultural heritage and lets vandals destroy the center of Athens? What exactly is this Left that nepotism proves to be worse than this party of postpopulation? I do not need to mention the examples of relatives and friends appointed by this government. What exactly is this Left when it distributes 500 million directly to upgrade some ragged planes, plundering the funds reserves, which puts the trade unionists of GENOP - PPC in the administration of PPC? What exactly is this Left that rejects excellence as one that takes or may take - not to be accused of having condemned some ministers - or is accused of taking 12% commission for any re-entry? And what exactly is this Left that, by violating every law and court ruling, leads to the unemployment of thousands of workers in a private business? We have a long way to go today in the center of Athens by workers in Skouria. Aren't these workers supposed to fight the Left? What will they say the next day? Leave the company. The company will find its way. And close it, multinational, it's gonna make it. What do you say to these workers, though? What do you think? That you come in this way I want you to close a company that is licensed by the Greek State, for which there are a number of final decisions of the CCC? That's exactly the left you imagine? I am afraid - and I am closing with this, Mr President - that you remain on the left of 4%. 32%, what remains to reach 36%, did not vote for them. So stop being a social margin government. You become a government of all Greeks. Put real national priorities on the ground. Leave aside bills like these, letter service. Rule, at last, and stand at the height of the circumstances! Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Gerovas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days communications pressures have been intensified to the government in order to retreat to lenders and accept real measures. Pressure is being exerted from abroad, mainly through commissioned authors and, respectively, those in Greece who have taken the role of their translator. This, along with a recipe of supposedly panic, lawlessness, insolence, etc., comes to degrade the government. Let's say it one more time: the government came to stay. She came to stay without exceeding her red lines, no matter how original. The government is legislating. Legislation over everything that has been committed to the Greek people. Legislation without being blackmailed, without decaying either by screaming or by episodes - occupations, etc. It is strategically and rapidly legislated - it is directed towards Mr Venizelos what had a question. So this bill is a great piece of legislation that implements SYRIZA's election commitments and government commitments to government's planning statements. The aim of the bill is to deal with the suffocating, inhumane situation in the euphemistically called "prison shops of detention", in the well-meaning colleges, a situation created by both overpopulation and lack of infrastructure and staff. At the same time, the bill lays the foundations for the next steps of the government in terms of a number of problems facing our penitentiary and criminal system. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately colleagues, particularly in the New Democracy, instead of contributing to the debate that is taking place in this House, have once again chosen the easy way. The rapporteur, the best advertiser than anyone who creates the mess. They have been demolished - you will allow me to say - attacks on the relevant Minister, Mr Paradise and the government on the grounds of the bill. And what did we not hear in the committee these days and today? That the Minister is dealing with terrorists, that the country will be filled with evildoers, that we are making the terrorists squeeze. Mr Kikilias, speaking to the Minister, did not respect neither the person nor the institution, said he would remain in history as Minister on the basis of terrorists and hoodiers. Today he has a bit of this, but he has done so. And you know why he said it? To make the plan for the news report that was followed by the committee, a so-called glorious meeting. We were present. There was no storm. No word on "tabaker", no talk about the bill. But you know, the tactics of tension are neither innocent nor accidental. The New Democracy, in cooperation with some mass media, follows the tactics of tension in order to affect the government's prestige and to remain faithful to the theory of left parentheses. This is a terrorist campaign on the axis of fear - lawlessness - terrorism, of course, dressed with proper xenophobia and as much as is necessary by Grexit. We experienced an Easter extreme right-wing chord that crossed the propaganda line. Propaganda cheap. It is very cheap propaganda to show shot on television with fifteen people who are uncovered, who enter the courtyard of the Parliament and the caption underneath write: "Cauders are invading the House." So, they tell us that what we see isn't true. 'Truth is what we are telling you', that is, the media. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of fear and insecurity was defeated in the elections on 25 January. Today, with the bill submitted by the government, steps are taking to restore reality and to normality. It is a bill adapting legislation to constitutional requirements based on the principles of equality and proportionality, which takes into account all the international texts on which our country's obligations arise. Colleagues of Anti-Population argued that the abolition of Type III prisons undermines the sense of civil security. PASOK hasn't decided yet. He'll tell us later if he is anyway. But, ladies and gentlemen, Type III prisons were not carried out at all to inspire the Greek people, because they were not safe anyway. On the contrary, it was an ideological and political choice of the previous government, a prerequisite that was not raised by any troika. The creation of Type III prisons, among other then-government political initiatives, served the doctrine of zero tolerance, while at the same time trying to act conservatively to reflex a section of society. At the same time, both the theorists of criminal law and the law-enforcementers tend to agree that these prisons are a prison within the prison. The previous legislative regime introduced unfavourable and unjustified discrimination. The regime of tightening the detention conditions became selective and often subjective criteria concerning the person of the detainees. The prisoners in Domokos have faced a sentence, in addition to the sentence imposed on them by the court. A sentence without a court of law, i.e. a second punishment aimed at easing the existence. Those who oppose the abolition of Type III prisons say that we will be the only country without maximum security prisons. This is partly a fact. However, this measure was implemented in 1990. Today, twenty-five years later, this way of detention was memorized, with international organisations calling for its abolition, because it has been shown to increase relapse cases, suicide cases, and to violate international human rights conventions. That is why we are not the only country that does not have that type of prison, we are the only country that abolishes the measure that everyone else is now called upon to abolish. The rapporteur of the New Democracy has accused us of having this bill as a ruptured one. We heard that from PASOK too. May I remind you what rosphetti is? Last night, the press project.gr: "scientific rumbles, ruffles with mathematical model, distribution of positions, etc., the ruffles between the New Republic, PASOK and DIMAR at that time". He needed a mathematical guy. That'll say rousphetti and you shouldn't refer to the word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u179	While your choices are arrogant!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u180	You bear all the weight and the word, but also those resulting from it. Of course, Mr. Kikilis said so. He has probably not noticed our positions and is not following our positions in the House. We, ladies and gentlemen, have placed ourselves in a direct, clear and clear debate on these issues. Others were talking behind closed doors, others being recorded by cameras. So no rosphetti to anyone, but commitment to our positions and principles. These positions have been welcomed by the Greek citizens and they have given us the majority in the elections on 25 January. They have given us a mandate together to stick to the fundamental rights and guarantees of the rule of law. From the wealth of the bill, the debate on the part of the New Democracy has monopolized one topic: Savvas Xiros. It attempts, ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with part of the systemic media, to rebuild the bill by saying "the draft for Savva Xiros". In the debate with the institutions in Parliament, the fourteen of the sixteen parties attended to speak about this were canceling the terrorist propaganda with their place. This draft law, therefore, actually, among other things, provides for a conditional dismissal of disabled detainees. We are not talking about liberation, but about replacing inhumane and degrading detention in terms of limited freedom. In the case of prisoners with life imprisonment and disability more than 80%, the replacement of confinement is compulsory with their house arrest. Is that a photographic device? Of course not. The provisions of the bill obviously do not have a name, nor do they photograph. Also, they are obviously moving in a logic that does not photograph their exclusion. That would be unacceptable for our legal system. And the Dry today is disabled with 98% of the opinion of the IKA. I hope, of course, that all of us can see what an disability of 98% - I remind you that 100% is death - and how dangerous this can be, as 2% of the health of Savva Xiros. Such punishment therefore goes beyond the limits of punishment and becomes physical punishment. I would remind you that the European Court of Human Rights twice condemned Greece for the Savvas Xiros case: both September 2010 and August 2011. On the contrary, the same court in November 2012 secured a detainee with cancer at the final stage the right to die free by accepting his urgent request for his detention to be lifted in full. Ladies and gentlemen, terrorism in Greece has had many innocent victims. He had a lot of pain in many families. Members of the victims' families are also in this Chamber - and we fully respect it - condemning the acts of terrorism and all that they have done. At the hearing we listened with particular attention to what the Organisation of Terrorism Victims has had to contribute to the public dialogue through its representative. Families' representative pointed out, when asked about his personal experience, that he always tries in his public places to promote his status as a Greek citizen, not as a relative by personal charge. Let's keep this. Because we here, in our capacity as public figures and representatives of the Greek people, must be placed. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of the legislation we are debating today would not be radical. They are, however, drastic and reflect the size of the crisis they were asked to cure. The prison crisis has existed for many years. The evidence proves by itself the situation. They have been mentioned and will be referred by many colleagues from all sides with joint findings. Despite the legislative initiatives of previous governments, a proportionate and constitutional approach was lacking. There is now the possibility of developing a policy, the strategic breath for the whole system of criminal repression, in order to tackle the problem in the face and not in a mere hypocritical tribulation. To stop cynicism, revenge and take a step towards dignity. I therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this bill and to all contribute to this effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with what for me, at least for everyone on the Golden Dawn, is the most important thing, that our illegally confiscated Members cannot attend Parliament meetings. I asked the Minister this morning and got the answer that, in his opinion - not in his opinion, because that is the right way - the prisoners must be allowed to attend. We see that the President of this House says exactly the same thing, the Minister of Justice says exactly the same thing, but, unfortunately, a prosecutor considers that he should not give permission, contrary to some terrorists who must study and which the conditions for their detention must be human. We will agree, but the detention conditions cannot be human and only observe the laws in certain categories of indictees. We will continue to insist that our MEPs, the illegal and unjust guarded, come to Parliament and can speak of what they have voted for so many thousands of Greeks. I also heard the Minister say about the sentences by the European Court of Justice and the one and a half million that the Greek Government has fined. We are very sorry, but soon the eleven, I think, sentences that he said will certainly become twelve - I do not know about the remaining one hundred and ninety, Minister - because he will come from the European Court of Human Rights and the decision for us on the way in which Mr Athanasios has been legally arrested Members of the Greek Parliament. It's your fault, Mr. Athanasios, because you called to see what's going on with the trial and how this case is going to go. Well, with Mr. Athanasios, there were kidnappings of Greek MPs. We were cuffed by handcuffs, the Chief of the third political force of Greece and by us of the rest of the MPs. We will therefore have another condemnation of Greece from this. Wait. He's on his way. We're sorry, but that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u183	It suits you to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Athanasios, what suits us will be seen along the way. It was you who put us in jail. You thought so, but you didn't get the work, Mr. Athanasios. You didn't do well. I'll see you on the way. We have a lot to talk about. At the trial, see what we have to say. I'm listening to the conversation, and we're talking about decongestion of prisons. Golden Dawn has said it before, and it is her constant request. We're talking about evidence. There are currently about 12 thousand five hundred prisoners. Of these 68% to 70% are foreign. If foreigners are deported and they go to serve their prison sentences in their countries, the Greek prisons will be empty. Well, the problem of decongestion has been solved. Can I have another word, Minister? It is an excuse to tell us that through this bill and the amendments you bring people will be released, prison conditions will be better and will be dismantled. I would like to ask you and answer that. How many will the ones who, according to the bill you bring, will be released? It is two on one amendment, five on the other amendment, eight on the other amendment. It's them. So the bill is not meant to be decongested. The bill is done to get out of the ones who have to go out. We are listening - and there is a "good game" for so many days - to abolish Type III prisons. Mrs Sveroni said so a moment ago: 'There were never Type III prisons'. It had been announced by the Government of New Democracy, he went to implement it on 2 January - twenty-three days before the elections - to say that he was making Type III prisons, striving for this game and then struggling for SYRIZA to come and say "like good democrats, we are abolishing Type III prisons". Well, since we know the subject very well, there were never type III prisons. Everyone plays on this "ball" and on the words now, to show us that some of you are good, the others are better. The truth is, it's just words. There were never Type III prisons! Maybe they were going along the way. To tell our opinion and to be clear about it, we do not accept and do not want to be type III prisons. As long as there is will and if there is a separation of criminals and terrorists into special shaped wings so that they do not come into contact with prisoners who have not committed serious offences. I hear they say a few moments about guest foreigners. We have made new words slowly: hostile foreigners, refugees. Guest foreigners here in prison don't exist. There are illegal immigrants who illegally entered Greece, committed, killed, raped, stolen and entered Greek prisons. To end this issue, let's get people out one hour before and go home! What are we gonna do? We will let them go out again and continue to enjoy the hospitality that Greece gives them. We, as Golden Dawn, do not want this and will do everything in our power to make these people go home. We do not know whether this concept is fascist. We heard the Minister tell us that it is not good to talk to rebellion, it is not good to talk to people who are rebellious in prison, because detention conditions are not what they should be. I completely agree, just tell me two three things here: Firstly, why are the accused Members of the Golden Dawn 18 months in prison, I repeat, without any reason? Secondly, why is it that some members or mere supporters of the Golden Dawn are in prison eighteen plus twelve that came to them, in other words thirty months? This, for some of you who hear it with left sensations, has no precedent and no one has spoken of these people. They've been in prison for the same time. They're in prison for the same time. And if these people are acquitted - who will be acquitted in court - they will have been confiscated for two and a half years, when a criminal, when a terrorist, according to this bill tabled, will be out at nine - ten years. Let's see the sensations that exist. It should also be stressed that the conditions in the prisons that live and are not good and that we agree that they should be changed depend on the conditions in the rest of society. I don't think things are good in the rest of society outside and we're only talking about prisons or that Greece has health, has education, and I don't know what else it has. We don't have anything! So, since there is nothing right, prisons are not correct, and of course it has to do with who lives in these prisons. Illegal immigrants are staying, so they have learned from their countries to live in their homes, in their families. Good or bad people - bad for me - have learned to live this way. So, coming to Greek prisons, what we consider to be unacceptable, that is to say, eight or ten, together and live under these sanitary conditions, because they have learned them, it seems to be normal. I have just heard the SYRIZA rapporteur say that in recent days the government has been under attack from the media. If it's true what you're saying - I won't say whether it's or not - what about the Golden Dawn say about what we've been through eighteen months now? What can we say about what we were watching, about the private channels of big-time workers and public television taking the headlines from the newspaper "Nation of Sunday" that was coming, putting them on us from Friday at noon and talking about dragons, signs and monsters at the expense of Golden Dawn? And of course - unfortunately for most of you - none of this has been confirmed and that is clear. To highlight to some people from here who may not know, the litigation concerning the Members of the Golden Dawn does not have a single criminal act, so that we can hear and learn that. It's only about speeches. These speeches go to condemn us. Since we all accept that detention conditions are tragic - we're told by PASOK, New Democracy tells us, SYRIZA tells us - there are two data here: Firstly, forty years there has been nothing and what we have done is to say, to pass the time, to come to the committees. I was in prison before I entered the Penitentiary Committee in the previous parliamentary term. I'd said exactly the same thing. It won't change anything. Unfortunately, we were entitled to Golden Dawn. Nothing's changed. Because now you all agree that the conditions are unacceptable. We agree that you're with us. For the bill to say - the Minister has now left and there is no one here - that we are talking about a disability rate of over 80%. We agree with that, namely those who have a serious health and disability problem, to see it. We must look at this, of course, on a case-by-case basis, so that they can leave and go under house arrest. We're accepting it. But here we are talking about the disability rate of 67% and 50%. A disability of 50%? I asked the committee - and I did not answer it back then - and I ask that, and now, the Step is to tell us what the cases with a 50% disability rate are and must be released. Let's tell us what these circumstances are, let's see what's going on here. I would like to stress something else. The Greek state - and it does well - covers the costs of hospitalising various terrorists who have killed dozens of innocent people and treats them as they should. I do not, however, know - and I do not know - that it is to cover the costs of hospitalization for the victims of these cases, to some injured, to some who have had to have multiple surgery, to some who have been destroyed all their lives. So to these people who are victims of terrorism, does the Greek state not cover their hospitals, does it not help them in this area, but those who were victims help them and cover them? We said we had to cover it for them, but we have to cover it for the victims too. This is because we do not see anyone having this attitude. And the New Democracy, which is so sensitive to this part, although there has been a government for many years, has done nothing. I would like to stress - because I do not want to exceed time - that our Chief Nikos Michalliakos in 2012 had said that travel documents should be given and foreigners should go where they wish. We won't forbid them to leave at all. They'll be able to go wherever they want. We give them travel documents, take them a ticket to Greece's last bills. This came after three years and Mr Sakellaridis said so as an official proposal. It was right. Sadly, though, then something happened and they took it back because they were exposed. Unfortunately for you, thankfully for us, it will be a time when in immigration, in particular, you will be forced to say what we have said. What we have been saying on Golden Dawn for so many years has not been saying, because we are inhuman or because we want the evil of illegal immigrants. It was because we wanted the good of the Greeks, and that's why we tried to do it, and that's why we went to jail. Of course you saw that you had nothing to do with all this. We're here again in front of you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to refer to two - three things said by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy. He told us that in the last forty years terrorism in Greece - his words - has been - developed within the extreme left and that he has murdered people. We will agree with what he said. But he was never convicted of any left-wing or extreme left-wing soldiers for driving these people to commit crimes. This contrasts perfectly with what all of you are saying, that because a fan, a friend or anyone else of the Golden Dawn is found to commit a crime, it is the parliamentary group, the Chief of Golden Dawn and we are all in prison. This has been very helpful to you all, to the Left and the Right, all of them. Golden Dawn's percentages were giant, and that's why you put us in. That's the truth. But above the intensity and the words spoken, we hear truths. That was a truth of Mr. Mitsotakis, who said that. However, no one was ever convicted and well did and was not convicted if there were no concrete evidence that it had anything to do with the murders. I shall refer to something else. He said again that five of the six amendments tabled by this bill are precisely the notices made by various anarchists, various anti-powerful circles. He said - and he is absolutely right in this - that the only amendment that has not been passed on from the anti-semitists' text is Article 187 of the Criminal Code. For those who don't know that, do you know why he didn't go through this? Because that's where the indictment against the Golden Dawn rests. Article 187 did not come out, as the "fucking children" of the system wanted, because it was quite simply through it that we were allowed to celebrate. That doesn't mean we won't be entitled now, but you're trying to trouble us any more. That's the truth. I would also like to stress here that the Minister and his fellow Members were prepared to bring in a bill when there were governments involved in terrorist and criminal organisations. It is only there that they were in a difficult position, because this bill would have to ratify the Palermo Treaty once again. It is the Palermo Treaty once again that celebrating the Golden Dawn. They made these gargoys in this bill, hid them and left them behind until the Golden Dawn case goes. Not to condemn us, but to keep us, according to your data, hostages for a long time. We're never hostages, and we're never gonna be hostages! And one last thing that was heard by the parliamentary representative. He mentioned to us as the great form of the Left Charilao Floraki - we heard this as well - who fought for equality and justice in Greece. You will allow me to have another opinion. Charilaos Florakis was the Captain Yotis of "EAM-ELAS - Melillas", who squandered Greek patriots. Let's hear that from the voters of the New Democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u186	Would it be bad for me to ask for the Minister's presence? Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is going through difficult times and we do not need this step to spark more. Because we do not want to be the same as you have been in previous years. We want to show something different, because we're something different. We put our breasts on our homeland, because that is how we said it was our party's ideological stigma, that it is a patriotic party that wants home and then, of course, all the rest. So, this bill, which could also be positive, we have to vote against, because we have the impression that this government is passing through and legislating under extortion. Because she had promised all these social groups that she will soon be able to justify them to a large proportion. But this government, ladies and gentlemen, which wants to be called the "first time left" has a partner, which is the Independent Greeks. At least that is what you should say as little as possible, namely that you are a left-wing government. Because that is, in fact, in line with what you have been doing in recent years. It makes you yourself uncertain about politics, about political ambiguity. And work with political ambiguity and in the negotiations with partners and lenders and with the devastating reforms that we want to see, but we do not see them three months now. We want to see the key issues of industrial relations that you themselves were professional when you were opposition. Let us see what we are going to do with the insurance system, the security of the citizens that the Minister and the other ministers have been directly involved in these days and, of course, see what we are going to do with the immigration problem, which is not simple, as you once brought it up with all these activist actions that you have done. Now I believe, as a government, that you will land to see that the immigration problem is not only Greece's problem. It is not a problem for some social groups or some activists, but it is a deep ideological, democratic demand for all societies, which are in a different phase from the others in the world, and it is a demand for all European societies. Because Europe, ladies and gentlemen, is the best thing for global culture to show in its history. We are in a European Union which is the first exporter of products in the world. He's the first product importer in the world. It has 25%, right now, of world trade and it has 7% of the population in relation to the world population. We are therefore in a European Union that is jealous of the whole world and what all of us should do here would be to seek as much as possible to be in this Union, with human rights, of course, and with all the fair demands that all the peoples of the European Union are asking for. The heterogeneous governmental pattern, however, is self-evident, because different policies are being pursued. And don't look at today for agreeing on this bill and holding a personal policy. Tomorrow - the day after tomorrow, when the difficult ones come and when the Greek pocket begins to be affected, then things will be much different. We'll see about it in the immigration bill that'll be here soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u187	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u188	So why don't you know that red lines will come from some who don't forget their story, they don't forget where they started and where they went. Public opinion is so embarrassingly following what you are doing, because you do not have a realistic action programme, you have not told us where you want to go and communication is once over. So you have been based yet - three months - on the incomplete opposition that you have had all the previous time, shading with Europeans. But this is an underprivileged populism and a long time shifts decisions on key issues. But it's over. The situation of the country cannot continue. The country's in bankruptcy. Get out into society, get out in the provinces, get out to your friends to tell you how they feel about the great economic strangulation of all Greeks. Since the day this strangulation will touch every Greek person's pockets, which will be very fast, then you will have to think very much about what you have set up in previous years. The 'irregular' immigrants you want to say are not melted in the squares, because they are hungry, fearful, insecurity, ladies and gentlemen, and this shows the confusion you are in. You've confused your role today. You're confusing the exercise of power with your inner-party ideological struggle and the controversies in university halls and college right now. You are confusing the functioning of the government and of a party of power with the withdrawal from the past of sympathy, ideality and sympathy for the abuses, of course, trying to politically in the name of a alleged veto. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Yesterday we saw the Minister of State say 'Let it, brother, come and solve it'. No, ladies and gentlemen, nothing will be solved by magic, because nothing is predicted to be solved by magic wands. So within this left ideology you come to apply provisions that lead to lawlessness. It is obvious that the ideas of the ministers lead you to his Left nothing. We are therefore anxiously awaiting the changes - we will give you the time - and we will support every positive step in the reforms that you will bring. We're fighting too much. It is not possible to create terror and insecurity with all these laws that you have brought because they cost nothing. You are, ladies and gentlemen, as a spoiled child who thinks that the university and the country are his magmas and can do on the basis of his appetites. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case, because left-wing governance cannot give the impression to the citizens and to Parliament that it has become a government - puppets of some people who do not believe in democracy. I really look forward to the SYRIZA colleagues who have been on the list today, but also the Minister responsible. And because we want the government to achieve with tangible examples, we are voting for what is positive, we are voting on your choices of exercising power in the public sector. We therefore want this government to achieve for the benefit of society. And you know, whatever's for the benefit of society, we'll vote for it. However, we cannot vote for this bill, because we believe it is a negotiation product. If, Minister, you withdraw it and the gentlemen leave the university, if the arrests from the University leave, bring it to the House to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC, Mr Thanasis Pafilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to talk about political developments as a whole. Ten days ago we had the opportunity, as I imagine we will have it every time, on the occasion of the debate on the memorandum of inquiry, to have a more general debate. We simply think - without any sign of playing ourselves - that developments deserve what the Communist Party of Greece has been doing for many years, but in particular in recent years it has told the Greek people that a philosophical solution with any negotiators within the European Union and the imperialist organisations, with the economy in the hands of the monopolies and capital and with a negotiation of a debt, for which the Greek people are not, does not exist. Such a philosophical solution does not exist. And without such a direction, i.e. decommitment from the European Union, socialising the means of producing a unilateral debt erasing, not only will you not burden the junkies and will the markets dance pentosal, but you will be danced in the bass, and that seems to be the case. The tragedy, however, is that it is paid and paid by the Greek people, which is why they must organize their struggle, claim to overthrow this barbaric system and leave the European Union, where today a serious man cannot claim to be offering the least philosophical. On the contrary, the European Union and the capitalist system itself have removed and removed in one night what has been won with many and bloody struggles. I would like to say a few words about immigration, because there is a lot of talk about the causes of immigration, about how to deal with it. It is said that government policy sends a message to slaves to send immigrants and the government avoids talking about the real substance. In fact, you are talking about the solidarity of the European Union. Can I ask you something? Who is launching wars in the wider region of the Middle East? Who financed the jihadists? Were they not imperialist countries, the United States of America? Wasn't the European Union? Did you not all ask you, except for the JRC, to strengthen the Syrian opposition, the fighters of freedom, as were the Afghans of freedom, who became what happened today? Isn't that what they asked of the European Union? And SYRIZA then asked for it at first, when the crisis broke out. What happened all of a sudden? Do you want me to bring you statements - not to say a name - of your top-secretary who criticised the European Union because it does not intervene in the Syrian crisis and does not help the Syrian opposition to restore democracy? If you are questioning them, ask Mr Dritsa, who is a minister now that he has questioned some other statements. All of you, talk about the situation. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] On a political level, we don't tell individual. Don't bite if you had a different opinion. I say, therefore, that the European Union is leading the way with the other imperialist forces to rip people out because they are leaving because they understand that they will die and say to you 'I will die anyway, at least let me make a hopeless effort to escape'. Who is responsible for the millions of desperate people who come to find a job from countries that are rich, with oil and natural wealth, who have huge rich sources of production and which also end up with multinationals, but also with the local bourgeoisie? That's why no one's talking. These are the reasons. And what are the causes now that the wave of refugees is growing? It's not just that they got a message from government policy. That's ostrichomatism. The reason is that the situation is exacerbating mainly in Syria and in the wider region of the Middle East and the world is leaving - whoever can - to escape. That's the point. This is the real reason and the fact that they fall into the islands is that Evros was closed with the fence. And what is the reason why Greece is being done, as you are saying - as we all say - a receptor of desperate souls? What's the truth? Can they go to European countries another way? The roads are specific: Greece, Italy, Spain. Easier than where they're going to go? Aren't they from Greece? What, then, prevents them from leaving 80% that they want to go to Europe, to countries in the European Union? It is the Dublin Regulation and the Schengen Treaty. Yes or no? So who agreed with Dublin in previous years? All of you except JRC. Who agreed to Sagen? We didn't, others have reservations. I've lived them firsthand. Do not question them, I will bring you the Minutes of the European Parliament here and you will not know what to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u191	What are you talking about? Who agreed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u192	So let's start with what measures we need to take. Firstly, we must listen to the fascist Golden Dawn killers who say 'pollution' - why is that what they say - 'let's set up machine guns and whoever goes through to clean him up'? That's what they think, but they're afraid to say, they've got the trial ahead. And we have the Minister today to tell us that it is a serious matter that they did not permit the three to come to attend the meeting and make serious and serious statements three days before the trial. Poor thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u193	The point is that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u194	Let me go, Mr. Voutsi, don't rush. What can we do if they come anyway? We say that serious measures need to be taken to ensure that there are open temporary hospitality centres, medical care and much more. That's not all we're talking about in theory. There are workers' centres in the area that we have the majority - and I must say that - but not just our organisations that act in this direction, but this must be the responsibility of the government itself, the state. Secondly, the status of asylum or subsidiary protection should be attributed to those who are refugees, i.e. victims of imperialist wars and political persecution. Third and important. That's what only contributed to the country. We used to say this and bothered: indiscipline, disobedience - we said - in the European Union. Discipline in Sagen and Dublin. Give them papers and everyone go where they want to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u195	Aren't they going to shoot them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u196	Is there another way? They won't come back. Make it a political move. Why did you do it and turn them back? Or you're like Zekos who said in a Greek movie "paint me", because that's how it goes now sometimes and don't cause me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u197	The Italians did it and turned them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u198	So the issue of immigration is a European matter? It is a general issue and the causes will not be eliminated to clarify our position. We do not want people to leave their countries. Our political position is to stay, organise his struggle and even overthrow this barbarity. However, you cannot impose this. Every popular movement in his country can conquer it - if he conquers it. Once you have this problem, there is no other way to deal with it unless we wait for the charity of the European Union, which always works in the sense of the cliff. When it wants cheap labour, i.e. cheap meat, it opens it, and when it's back together, it closes it again. And that's where the whole game is being played to push the local working class as well. For the bill, I am not going to speak specifically because Giannis Giokas specifically analysed our positions and we will be waiting for a substantial response from the Minister and the Government to the issues that we have raised and to the logic that we have put in order to have a serious debate, because the debate has focused elsewhere. We say that it is moving in the same direction despite any positive declarations or solutions, that it is mainly doing what the previous one has done, trying to get rid of the situation in prisons that are tragic and no one needs to describe it. This is also a sample of the system itself. We don't say crime will stop. It will increase in such a system. In the economic crisis too, it will increase much more. But we say that even here, people can be saved. But what is required? The following is required: firstly, institutions in a direction of prison overall and reintegration into society. Secondly, infrastructure is needed. And thirdly, it takes staff. On these issues, the bill does not give an answer. It manages the existing situation by taking some positive measures that have been analysed, but which, without what we said, infrastructure and staff, will be useless or can work completely backwards. There are positive provisions that we shall be voting on. As a whole, however, precisely because it does not deal with the substance and does not draw up a strategy - we do not say tomorrow morning - we shall be voting 'at present'. Here the debate focused on specific articles, particularly a specific article, and it became a two-party fight that suits everyone. Our position is also known for this article. We do not generally agree with the regulation for those with 80% disability. Because, you know, most mobsters or a lot of them are in wheelchairs because they've eaten bullets in the spine from the other gangs and they're fine to run. I am saying an extreme example to see that we cannot have a horizontal application of the regulation. We don't agree with that. We don't agree, automatically, isovites, seven years to come out. That doesn't make sense. This thing can't be the case. We cannot agree with that. But this is a debate. Mr. Mitsotakis spoke of the undeclared war we have in Greece with terrorism after 1974 with their revolutionary struggle, etc. Let's clear our position. There is a war, not undeclared, preached. In an exploitation system, the war of order is war. It's a class war and he's preached, not undeclared. And it's carried out hard. Many times, the working class manages to win or extract some things, but in total it is the class that accepts the consequences of this war, which is a war from capital, which bases its profits on the exploitation of those producing wealth. He's a preacher and a proclaimed war. And it's war all over human society. No matter how many people try to put tombstones or try and discover the social corporation. Are we partners and we google, because we use it and we pay for it already? So the workers, they're with the multinationals. So there is this war. But this war they do, Mr Mitsotakis, you know very well that it is caricature and has nothing to do with this substantial and class war that the working people movement itself does. And the communist movement has been placed since its appearance. I'll say it again in the House, because it's going through years. Lenin himself first condemned individual terrorism, saying what we say about today, which is confirmed, not only does the working people's movement itself, but acts provocatively. It is against the labour-class movement and the people, who are struggling to free themselves from exploitation. In fact, the war conducted by groups and mechanisms created too many and huge questions. Because the older ones must remember and the younger ones must know that mainly murders, bombs and such actions were carried out in a period of exacerbation of problems when the popular movement itself went to get its tops. This is the experience and these have nothing to do with the organized mass popular movement. On the contrary. Even today they act disorientatively and to some extent provocatively. Finally, the Golden Dawn trial is in two days. Golden Dawn is a Nazi, criminal organization. It's a criminal organization from its own ideology. First of all - and no one should give her an alibi - separates people into Aryus and to inferior ones. It separates people according to colours, religion and culture. And it aims - don't look now that they don't dare say it, when they're elsewhere they say it - to wipe out everything they're against him and consolidate the new order of things, as Hitler himself dreamed of, who had good news for him. And they don't have the courage to defend it - they bend the head - and say 'Yes, we are in it and we believe this thing'. It's a criminal organization because he committed crimes and guided crimes. He used to exercise knives on immigrants. Have you forgotten what was happening in the center of Athens, in Agios Panteleimon, in the people's markets everywhere, in the fishermen, in Perama with the workers? The fact that we didn't have any victims was random. Murderers were all attacks and MPs headed for it. And now in front of the trial, they're hiding them and they're trying to be innocent pigeons. So they are enemies of the people and let them be presented differently. And because they dared to talk to us about history, Charilao Florakis and what Mr Mitsotakis said, who speaks truth in this place? Youth listen. When we and the majority of the Greek people fought the Germans, their political ancestors were battalists. Are we lying? What slogans were they yelling at?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u199	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u200	I'm talking about Golden Dawn. I didn't say about you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u201	You looked at me and I was worried.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u202	So what did they say? Because now they don't dare say it. What was their main slogan? 'Glory and honor to the hippies and to the marbles'. What were the battalions? They weren't German partners? They are political descendants of the hooded men of the time. They were wearing a hood. No folk fighter ever wore. In both executive and eyebrows, most people agreed to be shut down. They fought to the end for their ideas and they have nothing to do with it. They're junta's descendants. They are the same ones who supported and supported her. Wasn't their parliamentary representative who opened the flag to Crete? Have you forgotten? Didn't they make pogroms against immigrants? Against workers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u203	Let your mouth sanctify! Say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u204	They didn't have a slave trade office saying: "Get out the strangers, get Greeks with 16 euros of money." All of these, in this climate, dare to judge the communists and struggles of our people. Their place is where they fit in the trash can in history. And in the face of the trial, no one should hesitate that it is criminal and Nazi organization nor should they be forgotten in the name of other problems or that now represent the dead bug until the trial itself is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Next, Mr Diamantopoulou has the floor and we will conclude the meeting by 16.30' with Mr. Kaklamanis, Mr. Fortsakis and Mr. Karayannides. Here, Mr. Diamantopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill from the Ministry of Justice, a bill such as what the government brings at the moment, these days, which is intended to deal with a situation which is insufferable throughout society, which has inherited from the former political regime and the years of governance. So it is not a bill that predicts that it solves for ever or reforms the penitentiary system, but it is certainly dealing with issues that have made conditions in our prisons unbearable. Even vaginas could be termed very easily. This bill, if it has not been defended, certainly has been co-signed by the overwhelming majority of the actors, and the issue is the criticism it is being made, because it is going to deal with congestion, it has a part of the imprisonment of minors, which is a huge issue and provisions on drugs. The criticism, however, has been made in a specific direction. And if we take the Civic Opposition guide, it even looks like the one they've made to suggest. He is the former Minister of Civil Protection, while in their parliamentary group he is the former Minister of Justice and the former State Secretary for Justice. However, they wanted to see it from the point of view of law and order. They wanted to see it from the perspective of zero tolerance. Is there anything new on their tactics? No, of course not. This was the tactics of the New Democracy and PASOK in previous years when they dissolved society. They couldn't answer any social issues and requests, so they imposed this. And why are they doing it now? Because there is a discomfort in the way that the government is currently negotiating - and is negotiating hard - in the way it faces all the issues and demands of society in these difficult circumstances. So there's nothing they can do. They cannot make any real criticism either of the PASOK or of the Potami. And they're being tampered with behind that logic. They have nothing more to say. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, the bill can be seen from two perspectives. Two criticisms can be made, and we will choose what attitude we will take each other. One says that what is produced in this society by illegality that reaches the crime is determined by the deep inequality that the capitalist system produces. A piece defends this and perhaps thinks it is an epitome of the social process and process. Therefore, he considers it perfectly normal what is done and those who are criminals through this process put them under the rug. The pillow is the prison vagina. It enters into the logic of punishment and extermination rather than of prison. It does not, in fact, assume the responsibilities which it is to be regarded as part of society. It is also the other perspective, the other criticism that can be made, which considers this system, the economic and social, completely unfair and the inequality that it has and causes all this infraction and crime, wants to deal with them through a penitentiary. These two logics conflict. And on this basis, we have to decide. Ladies and gentlemen, many times we have criticised the SYRIZA in particular that it does not monopolize the sensitivity, that we are not just the sensitive ones and that we should not invoke its monopoly. We believe that this is a golden opportunity for all of you, who have listened to this criticism for so many years, to choose how you will stand up to this issue, on this social problem, leaving flammables, terroristism, terroristism and anything else and in response to this issue. Do you want people's dumps or do you want modern penitentiary institutions, which will try to give one more chance to all those who have committed crime, illegality or anything else? That's the heated dilemma. That's what you'll be called to answer. Mr President-in-Office, there is one issue that has been raised again at this juncture with a criticism which, if not unfair from the standpoint of counter-population, is at least tragic. On the one hand, we are accused of moving the agenda from extreme circles and bringing amendments, on the other hand, that these were our election positions. SYRIZA is specific, sensitive to these issues. On the other hand, it was vertically opposed to all this terrorism produced after the uprising of young people - the neo-league uprising - and to the spasmodic movements of the then government to legislate, criminalizing, in the eyes of a peculiar hood, the hood, as well as the tragic issue posed by the scientific bodies of how DNA is used. We therefore consider these amendments - which were also in our election positions - to be a key issue. The Minister must accept them and vote on them all, because if they are not voted on by all the groups, apart from the river that was not in the House then, these groups are inconsistent with the positions taken at the time for the coup, the so-called. What's changed now? The agenda has been changed by the New Democracy itself and the prevalence of the 'Samarica' extreme right. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! One cannot hide behind one's finger, ostracize and blame the government, which is coming to implement its election commitments, for coming from extreme circles. If you want to discuss this, ladies and gentlemen, do you consider the UN extremist circles and its public démarches or the punishment of the European Union at EUR 2 000 000? Are these extreme circles? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Diamantopoulos. Mr. Kaklamanis has the floor. He has then asked for the floor and will be spoken by the Parliamentary Representative of Independent Greeks Mr Mavragans. Here, Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while in this Chamber, half the people are fighting to prevent the murderer Savvas Xiros from being released and the other half are fighting for the opposite, outside, on a grand course from Hilton to the Constitution, five thousand miners with women and their children flooded Queen Sofia with the slogan: "We are not spectators nor anarchists, we are workers from Halkidiki!" Secondly, my friend Mr Pafilis is missing, but I endorse everything he has said about the hoods. But even though he was looking this way and he was empty the benches, elsewhere he had to look, to those who fight for the negligence of the hood. She was absolutely right. Socks were worn by the saviors in the Occupation. Absolutely right! So this critical period for the country, the government and all the democratic forces of the country should work together, overcoming party purposes, to create the conditions for political consensus and national unity, so as to exploit all the healthy forces of the place in the difficult negotiations. I've said it in public. Nobody gave a damn. I'll say it in this Chamber. Maybe I should have said it here. I have not heard from any party, from the mouth of any MEP and from any leader - to the extent that everyone believes it, and I want to believe that most of us honestly believe it - that we do not accept horizontal reductions in wages, pensions, collective redundancies. Can you imagine today that this conversation had taken place here and that it would have been a "300-0", which would have been taken into his pocket by Mr Varoufakis and gone out? Because it would be "300-0"! This priority should have been given, Minister, and not this bill that divides. So we are all supposed to share common principles in this Chamber, in addition to our political disagreement, with each other's shades, in defending democracy, national security and defending national interest. It was assumed that one of the first concerns of the newly elected government should have been the search for instruments and ways of strengthening the country's social cohesion and credibility. And I do not mean "reliability of the press" what you are trying to present in Greece, like the outrageous yesterday that there will be a meeting of Obama - Varoufakis, to "eat" today, with a White House announcement that this has never been raised. In contrast to all the above, the Government puts as the first and immediate priority the adoption of a bill, which under the false title 'Reforms of criminal law', abolishes measures and security institutions without, however, replacing them with new policies. The fact is that this bill is a redemption - in my view - of a political letter to marginal groups on the extra-parliamentary Left and to extremes. And this bill, like many of the first initiatives or deliberate failures of the government, especially in matters of security, justice and immigration, is precisely that of thinking. In view, that is to say, of an honest compromise on the issue of debt and the extension of the memorandum prepared or tried by the economic staff and lenders of the country, the government is sure to find the left wing of the party. So today it is rushing to offer exchanges in order to ensure their consent, which may seem inexpensive or easy, but they actually raise important issues of the risk of public security and of the protection of citizens. The draft law we are debating today forms part of a more general political choice for SYRIZA to alleviate the extremes of the party, such as the policy of the open gates to immigration - the Ministry - you have made, the Minister, there is no - or the tolerance of public buildings and foundations, so that these components can give their consent to the forthcoming honesty - and let us hope not painfully - a compromise prepared by the government. This bill scrupulously avoids any reform of the penitentiary system, the Criminal Code or the detention of detention stores. It simply confines itself to the unrestricted and generally dangerous introduction of horizontal provisions for the release of detainees - for some categories I am not opposed - who are even charged with imprisonment, without excluding criminals with particular moral decency or particularly dangerous criminals, such as those condemned for terrorism. Today, the great problem of prisons is the miserable detention conditions, the particularly dangerous health conditions of detained sanitary conditions, the unacceptable prison areas. On these questions, the bill does not give a reply, it does not propose any measures and does not provide for any substantial reform that will in future improve the detention conditions of the Greek prison. In so far as I am responsible for the fact that all this has not been fixed for so many years - because I have been in this Parliament since 1990. In 1983 - and I conclude with this, Mr President - I remember being Secretary General of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association and as Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, we visited the Korydallos prison hospital. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Then, if I remember correctly, Minister of Justice was the late Minos Koutsogiorgas. We sent him, by my hand, a report on what we met in this hospital. This letter, five, six pages other than Mr Athanasios, to which I must admit that I did not send it, I had sent it to all the Justice Ministers, regardless of the party. Not only did I ever get an answer, but nothing happened. That is why I have told you that I am taking the responsibility I have as a Member of Parliament to my credit. This should have been the first bill you would have brought and perhaps we and the ones before us had brought it. I'm asking you. Go visit. You don't have to be doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u209	We've gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u210	Those of you who haven't gone. Whoever you've been, you don't have to. You know it. There you will see cancer sufferers until simple things are with people with infectious diseases, institutions and everything else you can imagine, without anyone's fault. So such a bill, you should have brought it. And we should have come to an agreement. I know, of course, that in two, three points, there would be no consensus. That is where everyone assumes responsibility, such as Savvas Xirus's theme. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. Of course, because I have before me not the Minister of Justice, but the old and my dear colleague Mr Voutsi, although we are opposed ideologically, I would like to say this: Minister, lately I have heard very often your fellow Members - you have not heard, said, and cut, you have never said so, that I should not blame you - to speak about elections. Who are you threatening with elections as a government, those ministers - and you know - you say so? Unless you're threatening, because of a list, your colleagues in SYRIZA. Because if you are threatening either us or the Greek people, we are not indestructible in the first three months to tell you to leave and run elections, as you did in June 2012. Since September, you have been asking for elections. But if you want elections, you can do it. We are ready to meet with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Mavragans, has the floor, in which we conclude this sitting. Mr. Fortsakis, you'll talk later. Here, Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u212	For a short time, Mr President, because the time is last year and I fully respect it. As you know, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 January there was a turn. The message was that turn directioning humanism and human-centeredism. This anthropocentricism absolutely had to stifle politics through this society. So it could not be à la carte under any circumstances and would have to penetrate both the field of criminal law and the penitentiary system of the country. It was therefore a project to come to this bill, it was absolutely imperative and society was expecting it. It certainly has guiding principles which are in this direction and which are perfectly structured, such as special attention now given to criminal incapacity. Because, indeed, our young people must be given special treatment from the Greek society and from the point of view of the criminal system, but also from the point of view of the penitentiary system, so that society can actually turn the lights on and aim more for their reintegration on the right path and not for their punishment. Also, an important element of this bill, which we must know, is the special attention to our fellow human beings, who suffer from substantial reliance. So far there has been a tendency of the criminal and penal system to treat them more as criminals and less as patients. This was absolutely necessary, and for the sake of the symbolisation of our society towards the reform of the humanitarian side, but also for the sake of substance, to be reformed. And he's reforming. Another issue is the area of sensitive personal data. The way the genetic material is taken for us is very important. This draft law also deals with this area and we welcome it, with great admiration. One issue which concerns us in particular is the substantial decommissioning and dismantling of our penitentiary system and our prisons by those who, in fact, have to be taken care of either by the method of dismissal or by the method of changing the way in which sanctions are being made. So at this point, we would like to make some points, in view of the enlightenment of this bill and its further protection as an eye daughter, because it should indeed be possible for any small flaws to be cured. So at this point we want to point out that, on the one hand, the 50% percentage of a person's disability in terms of the privileged measurement of the performance of the sentence and of the condition of dismissal or of changing the way in which the penalty is to be granted should be paid special attention, because, as you can see - and with full reading of the relevant handbook of the Ministry of Social Welfare in relation to the CSDP - the 50% disability rate can also be given to people who may have a psoriasis or a discoloration or a loss of two - three fingers in one hand, etc. Therefore, or there should be an amendment to this article to assist Articles 105 and 106 of the Criminal Code or Article 110(c) so that it can be judged as well if it is possible to carry out further offences. Because this situation in itself, on the basis of the disability rate alone, Minister, cannot be a safeguard criterion, which could be 67% or more and, of course, 80%. As far as 80% is concerned and specifically for isovitaes now, there is certainly a prerequisite for setting up a system of identification and supplementary and diagnosed storage in a special hospital, because those of our fellow people, who are both criminals, are also in need of health care. That is why they are also in a hospital space, but also a lousy medieval type, in the Korydalou Prisons. So, when we bring such a provision, we must provide for divorces and care in hospitals, of course, the one who is part of the ESS, a special storage area that we can shape. If it does not exist at the moment, there can be immediately in the future, as I understand and know, the Minister knows, because there are wings in Greece which can be such a safe place. I would therefore like to point out - and I am closing down with this - a provision which, in my view, must be given special attention, because it may have been dispersed. It is in the transitional provisions of Article 8(9) that, of course, I shall refer in particular to the debate in question - where there is a reference to retroactive effect of the conditions which, in fact, one may have today. So there is a reasonable contradiction there. If I get the prerequisites today - today I am becoming disabled, today I have a health problem, today I have these conditions that the legislator makes to me - I cannot count them ten years ago. I would like you to see that with particular attention, because there is indeed a reasonable contradiction here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-16-S1-commons.u214	With the consent of the House at 16.38, the sitting for Thursday, April 16, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of the House's work: Continue the debate on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Reforming criminal provisions, abolishing press detention stores and other provisions".
