ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DETAILED DESCRIPTION: According to the House’s 24-11-2015 authorisation were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of its PRAC Committee, of Tuesday 24 November 2015, with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Repealing: a) of 28 June 2015 Act of ‘Long Term Banking Act’ (A'65), (b) of 30 June 2015 Act of the Legislative Content Act of 28 June 2015 ‘Amendment of the First Act of 28 June 2015 ‘Amendment of the Act of Accession of the Ministry of Finance’ (A'65), (c) of 14 July 2015 of the Act of Accession of the Legislation of the Legislation of the Legislation of the Legislation of the Legislation of the Member States of the European Union ‘Staff’, (Staff) and of 28 June 2015, amending the Act of Accession of 22 July 2015, with effect of 22 July 2015, with effect of 23 July 2015, with effect from the Settlement of Amendment of the Act of 23 July 2015, with effect of 23 July 2015, with effect of 23 July 2015, with effect of the Amendment of Amendment of Amendment of the Act of the Act of the Act of 20 April 2015, with effect of 20 April 2015, with effect of the Law No.), the European Commission, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).) (A '90), (f) of 17 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Urgent Arrangements for the Rehabilitation of Loss of Extreme Creams in the Regional Unit of Evros" (A'97), (g) of 19 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Additional provision to n. 2292/1995 “Organisation and functioning of the Ministry of National Defence, Administration and Control of the Armed Forces and other Provisions” (A'100), (h) of 22 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content “Urgent arrangements for the smooth functioning of the Local Government Organisations” (A' 102), (j) of 10 September 2015 Act of Legislative Area “Enforcement of the School Year 2015-2016 and the orderly functioning of the School Units” (A' 108) and (k) of 25 September 2015. 4111/2013’ (A' 119) and (l) of 7.10.2015 Act of Legislative Content "Consolidation of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economy, Development and Tourism, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and Education, Research and Religious Affairs" (A' 127) and other provisions.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u2	Mr. Katsi, thank you. Reports completed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the following letter to this House: "To the President of Parliament. Mr President, I am aware that on Tuesday 24 November 2015 the New Democracy, in accordance with its statute, appointed its new President, Mr. Lassithi. I would ask you to make this letter to the House. Maria Antoniou, Deputy Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.’ The letter in question will be entered in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Friday 27 November 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 205/24-11-2015 topical question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakias to the Minister for Environment and Energy, on the authorisation of the fishing plant in Porto Germenos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 211/24-11-2015 by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy Mr.Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the delay and problems in financing the ‘Irakliou - Mesaras Road Axis’ project. 3. H pursuant to number 198/23-11-2015, a topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the single payment to farmers for 2015. 4. The question by number 196/23-11-2015 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the restoration of the National Theatre of Rhodes. 5. The Question No 207/24-11-2015 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on ensuring the compulsory remuneration of the practical exercise of the students of IEK and the safeguarding of their working and insurance rights. 6. The 193/23-11-2015 topical question by MP B' Athens, Georgios Amyras, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the position of the Ministry for the PPC's request for free allocation of emission allowances to lignite generation. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 202/24-11-2015 by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassiliou Koukas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the threatened ratification of the loss of power in the event of the consumer being unable to repay. 8. The 197/23-11-2015 topical question by MP B' of the Central Association of Greece Mr. Georgios Karras to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the risk of adverse economic effects to the debtors of a main home loan, in case of partial coverage by the Greek State of the amount of his monthly payment. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 206/24-11-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Irinis Kasimatis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the exception of ferry Perama - Salamis from the concession agreement of the Greek State to the PPA. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 212/24-11-2015 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of public IEK. 3. The question by No. 199/23-11-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the lifting of negative consequences of Article 78 of the L. 4146/2013 and the course of checks on corruption cases. 4. The Question No 201/24-11-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the Minister's decision at the meeting of the Council of Agriculture Ministers of the European Union at the expense of Greek olive oil. 5. The Question No 208/24-11-2015 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problem of workers in the shops "Carrefour Marinopoulos". 6. The 195/23-11-2015 topical question of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the Ministry's attitude to address international assessors at the schools of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Pieria of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Elisabeth Scoofa to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the problems of managing the technology equipment of the school units.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In order not to do so in the intervening period, I would like to inform the House of the timely questions which will not be discussed today: The first question under number 189/23-11-2015 of the first cycle of MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siloropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and use of the National Centre for Quality Control, Classification and Standardisation of cotton in Cardiff, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. The second under number 180/20-11-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the development of the Drama Law, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with number 184/20-11-2015, top-stage question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the procurement of missiles from the Mississippi Army, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The fourth under number 173/17-11-2015 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the problem of urban transport in Athens, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The first under number 190/23-11-2015 topical question of the second question of the MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the operation of a computing tomograph (PET - CT) Ioannina, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The second under number 181/20-11-2015 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukorous to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the suspension of the authorisation of renewable energy projects by Regional Directorates for Rural Economy and Veterinary Affairs will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment and deleted. The third, with number 185/20-11-2015, timely second question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolocarnania of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the single payment to farmers for 2015, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fourth under number 175/18-11-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR V.K. Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the financing of the Crete Development Agency, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The fifth question under number 192/23-11-2015 is a topical question for the Z's Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, concerning the payment of workers to health centres, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member and deleted. The sixth question, number 188/23-11-2015, topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the loss of the hundred-dollar adjustment due to the unilateral reduction by banks of the amount of the instalment paid by the debtors in the banking account, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. As you can see, there seems to be an epidemic on the topical questions from the Ministerial Council. I point it out and I stop here. But this is a very serious debate in the Conference of Presidents. That's what's going on over the two months. We're entering the conversation. Mr Tassos, while you go ahead, I will precede Mr Kammenos because he has to be in committee. You are addressing the same Minister. I'm sorry. Therefore, the seventh question under number 187/23-11-2015 will be discussed for the first time by MPs II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the loss of billions of euros of the state via offshore companies. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr Colleague of the Communist Party, thank you very much. Minister, we are approaching an extremely important issue in our times. And because we are also drafting the budget and we are in the committee making suggestions on revenue and how this government will operate next year, ensuring revenue through what we have drawn up in the budget, but also because they are not directly identifiable, but they will help, if you want, in addition to our revenue, so that we can reduce the measures we have to take, I am reading - and it is important - to write in the Minutes. The offshore companies have been a wound to the Greek economy for years, since countless complaints have shown that they are moving dirty money through them, so that they escape - I am complementing and taxing them legally, i.e. at least legally - large sharks, depriving millions of euros of the Greek State. After years of covering the economic oligarchy in our country, the financial prosecutors opened the file of six thousand hundred and thirty offshore, offshore companies in the Greekst. However, the fact is that this is not the first time that we have tried to control these offshores and give them responsibility. According to a press release of PARON on 14-9-2014, last March, an oral order was given to stop the checks on offshore made by the Great Rich Tax Control Centre, the CIFF, while one year before the Inspector General of Public Administration, Mr. Rakintzis, had requested the Great Rich Tax Control Centre to check whether these offshore had been checked and what were the results of the checks. After eighteen months of absolute silence, in March 2015 he reinstated the question to receive the answer that these cases do not belong to the Great Rich Tax Control Centre, although tax managers disprove him. For example, in Kranidios there are thirty-eight extraterritorial companies based, while according to statements made in 2014 by the Head of the IMO Theodoros Floratos, they had completed - with many difficulties - checks only in fifteen companies, on which fines were imposed from 500 000 to 10 million euros. The sums are huge in relation to the money we are looking for for next year's budget. We see that from a very small control of only fifteen companies we have reached up to EUR 10 million in public collection. Furthermore, in corresponding checks only the Piraeus DU - look at - received 27 million euros, while last year, according to data, only two hundred and fifty audits had been carried out over a total of six thousand five hundred and seventy foreign companies with fines of 100 million euros. And we were looking yesterday and we are checking whether we will have budgeted and have the funds for the humanitarian crisis, for the excise duty on wines and much more. Indeed, according to calculations, the State seems to lose a total of EUR 4 to 5 billion of revenues from tax evasion of foreign companies. Is the Ministry therefore asking: How many checks have been carried out over the past five years and to which companies? What fines have been imposed? How many checks have been carried out in particular since March 2014, when do we have complaints of oral orders, the freezing of controls and the transfer of responsibility from the agency to the other? What exactly are the services in place to carry out the checks of the six thousand two hundred and thirty extraterritorial companies? How many auditors do they have and when does the audits take place? Have the complaints of Theodoros Floratou been checked that "with many tortures" checks are being carried out? Is there any provision to protect the services in charge of checks? That is a very important question. What provision is there to identify ghost companies operating in Greece and internationally, through 'triangular routes', so that they do not pay taxes? Finally, what action does the Ministry intend to take to safeguard the interests of the public in order to put an end to the tax evasion and tax evasion parties which force the State to resort to tough measures against citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u6	Advice to new colleagues when the questions are up-to-date, do not put more than three questions, because the Minister cannot answer them. I counted seven or eight questions if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u7	Six.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u8	Well, I counted them well, so. It's not practical. In the writing, all right. It's like advice to you. It's your thing. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. You raise a huge question with your question, Mr Papoutsis, which is really disgraceful of the Greek public. At the same time that we are forced to vote for tax provisions to get tens of millions of euros from citizens, hundreds of millions of euros have been hidden in large cases of tax evasion, which have not been exploited as it should have been. From the information I have from the Ministry of Finance - and I will submit all relevant documents in the Minutes, to be informed - we have about six thousand offshore, which are usable in control. There may be ten and twelve thousand offshore, but not all need to be checked. Many people have interrupted and it makes no sense to check. Only three hundred and eighty four of them have been checked and 129.5 million have been assured. For 2014-2015, three hundred and twenty-one companies have been audited and 94.5 million have been confirmed. As you can see, we're talking about dropping in the ocean. And the problem is growing a lot longer, because we unfortunately have a false target at which we control companies. There are cases where offshore companies are controlled and they pay very little revenue for the Greek State, when other large offshore companies or large tax evasion cases remain controllatively inactive or in any case the checks to be carried out have not been carried out. You should know that both these cases and the other case of listers, and all that is right, you analysed, is the aim of the Ministry of Finance. We have started - and the next period will be made public - a specific operational plan for the control of these cases. These cases won't stay in their luck. It will be monitored through a specific plan. There will be a monthly report on the course of the checks and we will begin, with the little staff we have and the few possibilities, to check as many cases as possible. The problem of offshore companies is double. It is the tax evasion that this company, the specific legal person, is also the tax evasion that this company allows them to make a number of other companies. So we have to assess it to the maximum extent and see how we deal with it. Of course, this problem is not just a national problem. They must enter internationally and at European level, because it is not possible for countries - which do well and move our fingers on tax evasion, technical assistance and on a number of other issues - to allow them to be in the power of their state or, anyway, in cooperating states tax havens that allow such companies to exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much. Minister, it is very important that the information you have given us is very important. They show, of course, the great gap and the great distance, but also the great opportunity that the Greek public has of the six hundred, five hundred, five hundred, to reach at some point the six thousand, two hundred companies. Here are a number of questions: Firstly - as I have said - we have sufficient staff and staff to carry out the checks and what are we going to do about it? I mean, we want people who know what they're doing and not transfer any human beings from any ministry with any specialty to do that job. This has happened before, and I denounce it. And why did it happen? Because he had to be delayed and never come up with a result. We need experts. And if they don't exist, we need to see what we can do as government to bring it to fruition. We need to get experts to do the tests. Secondly, how people are protected: there are many cases - and you know that much better than I do - that many judges are being subjected to lawsuits. There is a huge issue there. Does the public protect it? How does he protect him? Should it protect - in the good sense I mean protecting - the work of each auditor, in every DU or in every tax office of small or large companies or in the DUA of foreigners for the checks he does? Can anyone? Yeah, maybe. With the judiciary and legal system of Greece, within the democracy that we operate, he can sue him. But that ties hands and scares them. It is the only weapon of those who are controlled never to pay, so that we can finally come to the reports of the International Monetary Fund that tell us that no tax case ends in less than ten years and that there are two hundred thousand pending. And then Mr Paradise comes and says, "I have so many files and I can't do anything." Co-responsibility is the Ministries. Here we have to make laws specific - and we should have made them yesterday! - to protect people, as long as they have a legitimate interest, and they have to take control of the public, so that we can have results. And be afraid - if you want - and those who illegally exercise civil and criminal law - many times - of actions against people who simply do their job and who do not blackmail anyone, do not work for another purpose. Thirdly, in offshore companies, those in Europe, in countries such as Germany, Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, the Netherlands, Malta - we know everything very well - we reach a point in control. Can we get to the natural person? To tax a Maltese VAT, which will give me some money and say, 'I have to stop, so I don't get to the natural person', is something very right. I would also like to say a very good idea about how we should get them, which I used to say about the misery, when they said 'they came out of it offshore'. So, every offshore how does it set up? Through a legal, legal office that can be based in Greece as well. The Code of Law explicitly prohibits the concealment of tax or fraud or infidelity against the public. He's retired, and he's got criminal matters for the lawyer himself. So let's go to the legal offices that have set up offshore - because it was their job to set them up and get money to set them up - to get to some point, with the pressure on the normal and legal offices - because they illegally abuse the public for those who put legal companies, which hide tax data from the Greek State - to the natural person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u13	I will start with the question of protecting the control mechanism, which is a bet for the government, because we want to strengthen and protect the control mechanisms. What have we had so far? What did we have recently? We had cases of control being carried out in a particular company, being police officers present to protect the auditors from attacks that were taken, and yet to resort to the taxpayer in court and lead the auditors to the self-defense procedure - not with the police, but with the responsibility of our legal system - and to need our own intervention so that they don't stay all night in detention. We have this system, unfortunately. You have also said some examples. I will only give examples of what has appeared in the media. A year ago competent executives were forced to resign because they had been subjected to control in such a situation that they would either resign and go to retirement or lead them to the courts. This thing will end. We have already started with the provisions on the protection of the control mechanism in matters of limitation. The institutional framework for the protection of the control mechanism will be completed. There is no way that we should leave the control mechanism to any big businessman, big businessman or anyone else who wants, by using the existing provisions, to hunt it down. Another thing is the rigour that will exist in the field of corruption, the operation of services, and so on. - there will be strictness and there will have to be a stricter institutional framework - and we will have to leave the control mechanism either for the tax or for the police or for the prosecutors - because everyone is involved in these matters - without protection. On the question of the oral order you say in that it was given, at least at least the order is completely different. The mandate is for the checks to focus on the big cases, the checks not to stop anywhere, whatever name is in front of, any business, any businessman. I think that with the application of the House in Greece on the issue of natural persons you said, everyone will be invited to declare participation in legal persons in Greece or abroad. There, then, we will see which Greeks are members of legal persons abroad and through this unfolding bucket, we will also reach offshore companies. On staff issues, unfortunately, the staff we have in the Ministry of Finance, when compared to staff who have other European countries than the latest tax administration in 2014, are less. We see that we have less control staff than other European countries with less tax evasion, with better organization, with better computerisation. It is one of the issues that we have already raised in the institutions. It is one of the issues that we have first priority. If we want to tackle tax evasion, we must have sufficient staff in terms of the number - because now we do not have - and we must also have staff fully trained with continuing education and retraining on these specific issues of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u14	However, I note, Minister, that you said that at the same time as the protection of the control mechanism - which we all agree - you will also bring the protection of citizens from excesses of the control mechanism, because there is this side of the hill. We are therefore waiting for the bill to come, we will see the protection of both sides. We will now discuss the fifth under number 191/23-11-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Ministers for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and Finance, on measures to alleviate earthquakepliers and restore the damage to Lefkada. Mr Alexiadis will answer Mr Alexiadis in his timely question. Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I imagine you will show some tolerance because the issue is a big one and the topical question is addressed to two ministers, regardless of whether they are one. Once again it has been shown that anti-Semitism, as well as anti-military and anti-nuclear armour, is not a priority issue, because it is simply in the system that we live in that it does not generate great profits for capital. In particular, the earthquake that took place in Lefkada on 17 November, the size of which was ultimately estimated at 6.4 Richter, proved to be the criminal responsibilities of the central authority and regional and local administration for their refusal to proceed with repairs to public buildings and infrastructures and to anti-Semitism and protection works following the major earthquake in 2003 in Lefkada. Of course, it is well known that there have been major disasters in the earthquake and we have also had the death of two women. In particular, of the so far autopsies in a hundred and twenty homes, the eighty - six were found to be inhabited. Problems were also experienced in public buildings. The Vasiliki High School, the 5th kindergarten, the building where the workshops of TEI are housed was considered inappropriate, while cracks have suffered other public buildings such as Lefkada Hospital. Great damage has suffered the road network on the southwestern side of the island and the port of Basilica. Damages were also in both Vonitsas and northern Kefalonia. Residents of the earthquakes, in addition to their continued poorness with tax raid, the reduction of wages and pensions completed with the last attack on the insurance and the upcoming auctions of the people's housing, have to deal with the consequences of the 6.4 Ritchter earthquake, as we said before. For their immediate relief it is necessary to take measures such as: Ensure housing, feeding, watering, electrification of affected residents and supporting them with an exceptional allowance. Rental subsidy. Accommodation in tourist accommodation with the responsibility of the state. Provision of medical care and full staff at the hospital of Lefkada, the Health Center of Vasiliki and the centres of health and agricultural medicine in the wider area of northern Kefalonia - Sami, Pilaros, Erissos - and their funding to meet the needs of the residents. Rehabilitation of schools which have suffered damage and measures to ensure the safe and free transport of pupils. A record of damages and compensation for those affected as a whole, i.e. 100%, and their actual value for the damages suffered in housing, homes, small businesses, agricultural facilities and products. Abolition of the EMI for earthquakes in the prefecture, exemption from municipal charges and freezing of tax debts, OAUs, banks without incremental and interest on the affected. Delete housing loans for those dwellings which have been found unfit or in need of large repairs. Prohibition of the auctioning of popular dwellings and substantial relief from unbureaucratic loans. Rehabilitation of damage to infrastructure, water, electricity, roads, ports from a public body and with 100% State aid and responsibility. Prevention measures for precipitation from rainfall — precipitation. Substantial checks at the earliest in all public buildings - schools, hospitals, etc. - but also in private buildings, and the creation of studies and implementation to ensure their earthquake-like armour with the aim of restoring them both in the interior and in the outdoors, with support measures and not just returning to the pre-equal situation. We ask, then, what measures will you take to implement this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u17	MEP, since the first moment of the earthquake, we have been in cooperation with the Mayor of Lefkada on these issues and we have defined the framework for the actions that the Treasury may take on these issues. I will only reply to you on the matter of the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. I cannot answer you for the other Ministers, and I will submit to the minutes for you to be fully informed of all relevant documents and documents of the Directorate-General for Welfare of the Ministry of Labour and the General Secretariat for Social Security, which have enough information to inform Parliament in full. As far as the issues of the Ministry of Finance are concerned, first of all, let me start with the political disagreement - let us formulate it - in what you refer to in your question, that there are responsibilities for the central authority, regional and local administration over the death of the two people. Well, it's not our fault that there was an earthquake and two people were killed. There is also a limit to political confrontation and to what we are making in the questions and, of course, that the anti-Semitism measures have not been made because they do not generate a great deal of gains in capital. Perhaps what, in your opinion, should not be done through a specific economic and budgetary situation. As far as the issues of the Ministry of Finance are concerned, three are the axes of our interventions currently being examined by the Office and decisions will be made. One is the extension of the tax deadlines, so that the enterprises of Lefkada do not have any problems with the decisions which have recently come out for other regions. Secondly, the adoption of the Kefalonia model, not with regard to the earthquake but with regard to HNVIA, so that there are total exemptions for either the island or for the areas or for the habitats for which damage exists. Thirdly, a request has been made by the municipality to make it easier and to cost less to exempt the municipality and the VAT region from the projects, which will make it possible to restore these losses, so that we can reduce the cost of these projects by a large proportion. What I want to assure you and the House is that from the very beginning there has been the activation of local government on this issue, activation in which we responded, made the meetings, made the planning and progressing this design.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u18	Just a minute, Mr. Tassos, I'll make an announcement. The Ministers for Labour, Social Security, Solidarity, Home Affairs, Administrative Reconstruction, Economy and Tourism, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health, Culture and Sport, Economic, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and the Deputy Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, have tabled a draft law on 25-11-2015 on the establishment of a Revised European Social Charter. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Here, Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u19	Minister, we did not first say that the delays that exist and are evident - because they are not only in the case of the Ionian Islands, Lefkada, Kefalonia, etc. - there are, throughout the country, as there are, for example, checks in eighty - ninety thousand public buildings decided on after the '99 earthquake in Attica. And one of these eighty - ninety thousand public buildings has been checked by a maximum of 15%. More importantly, in 15% of those checked, 30% were found to have needs for immediate intervention and these have not been done. What we are saying is that the consequences of an earthquake could have been much less if the earthquake shields were taken and implemented. With regard to what you said, 'what to do now, things are difficult', I have to say: Things are difficult, but the shipowners enjoy fifty-six tax exemptions. Is that right? Things are difficult for our people, it is difficult for the workers, it is difficult for the people and it is very easy and favourable for the capital that rubs its hands, because now it will have cheap labour hands to do its job and increase its profitability. Money for earthquake shielding is not available because they are not eligible, because in the system that we live on the criterion of each project it is profit and not social needs. Therefore, there are responsibilities for shortcomings and delays in the issues of earthquake shielding, as well as for dealing with other natural disasters. Do not tell us now that we have a measure and that these shortcomings are not responsible for the death of these people. They are also responsible, because if the houses were better, the wall would not fall to kick the one woman who was killed, and if the relevant checks had been carried out and the measures had been taken and the corresponding aid had been granted. It is not just the checks that are enough, it is also the appropriate interventions. Now, with regard to what you have said, I think I have said more to you. This is about health centers, it's about HIS. I don't understand. Did you say that they will be exempted from HNVY or will we see it and transfer it, such as the extension of tax deadlines? Taxes, in other words, remain, as are the obligations of the loans. Now with the auctions nothing is written, the other one carries it with him. Is that right? Well, you didn't give any specific answers to almost any of the questions I asked you. As to deletion of housing loans, what are you going to do? People have lost their homes. I told you of the hundred and twenty houses checked, the eighty six were found uninhabited. What are they gonna do? Are they gonna pay a loan for something that's been demolished and there isn't? However, we have said that for them the obligations remain for the capital, for the shipowners, we have fifty-six tax exemptions. And why? Because, he says, if we overrule them, they'll take their boats and leave. With that logic, and the workers will stop working, see how the shipowners will make the money they make? Well, we need specific answers to the questions we asked and didn't get.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u21	Mr Tassos, on the occasion of your observation that we want concrete answers, I would like to say that I have not left a timely one without coming to answer and I am answering directly and any question that is asked. Another thing, however, which I do so out of respect - and it goes without saying in the parliamentary procedure - is that you should give up on me because I do not respond to issues which are the responsibility of other ministers. I can't answer for the entire government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u22	As a government, I beg you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u23	You do well to give up like a government, but it's very clear what the authority is to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u24	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u25	I can generally speak about the entire government - and I will tell you about all the questions you ask, and say that they have been answered, they have not been answered by me because they are not my responsibility. It's the responsibility of another minister. Already what we have in the Ministry of Finance is so much that we cannot get one more responsibility. We need to remove responsibilities. So we can't answer that. In the general reference you have made, you are absolutely right to express your political opinion and your political account. Clearly, we have another account. And for you, it's all about capitalism and not leading to a revolution that we need to lead tomorrow. Accepted your political account. We have another point of view. We believe that we should respond to the vote of the citizens and to the responsibility we have towards the citizens. And because you say that criterion for what we do is profit, I have to tell you that we don't have that criterion. Oh, no. Criterion for us, for what we do, is the needs of the citizens and the needs of society. So, on the subject of Lefkada, we have responded from the very beginning to what the needs of citizens and society are. So on tax matters, I would like to make a few things clear so that there is no misunderstanding. Firstly, on tax matters in Lefkada, we will be extending time-limits for tax obligations. We will do it with the model that we made in other regions of the disasters we had in the past period. Secondly, based on the model of HNVIA for Kefalonia, the next time we will bring you a provision on the subject of HNVIA of Lefkada, in which what we are considering is that we have a arrangement for the whole island or else we are considering having only one arrangement for the property that has been damaged. Because I imagine the villa in Lefkada with the nice pool that has not suffered any damage must not have the exemption from HNVIA that has the home of the poor or the house in the village that has been destroyed almost completely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u26	Don't tell me that. Did I say that thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u27	Because then we will also be critical of the fact that we are exempting major property from HNVY, which should not be exempted. That is what we are looking at right now and the issue of ENPY will come. We are also considering the request for VAT exemption for the specific materials needed to restore damage to two entities in the municipality and in the region, not a general exemption, to see how we will deal with the problem better. We've activated from the first moment and we've done our best.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. Minister, you're going straight up, I've been notified that they're waiting for you to start the budget session.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u29	Make it more beautiful to capitalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u30	Well, let's not have a philosophical conversation here. We continue with the sixth question under number 177/19-11-2015 of the First Cycle of the President of the Potamiou, Jasona Fotilla, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the change of head in the Internal Affairs Directorate of the Hellenic Police. The timely question will be answered by Deputy Minister Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for two minutes in your prototype with a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it has not been a long time since I heard you in the government's plans for October to talk about the need to create an operational and efficient police that is surrounded by prestige and will inspire respect. Also, when taking up your duties, you referred to the initiatives you would take to upgrade the role of the police and to shield it from corruption. Personally, Minister, I believe you really have the good intention of changing some things to the Greek Police. What I cannot understand is how this intention goes hand in hand with the fact that the Director of the Special Independent Internal Affairs Service of Mr. Stavropoulos has been suddenly replaced. Indeed, this move is causing a lot of questions, because this officer has had a very successful pre-service in this House, both as head of the ELS homicide department and as head of the 'Incorruptibles'. During his stay at the Internal Affairs Service, he has been very successful - at least I have not heard the opposite from anyone else - cases with transport circuits, namely transporting and legitimising migrants to the port. At the time it was proposed to replace it, there were specific investigations into cases of public interest. Then this officer was moved to the post of Deputy Head of Security at Attica, which is downgraded. Given that the movement of this officer was not accompanied by more general changes, the movement of officers and was individual, he raises serious questions about both her feasibility and the time taken, because a officer was replaced with a very good evaluation by all at the most creative moment of his career. That is why I ask you, Minister, what did you decide on this replacement taking into account what criteria? So were there any specific target quality, quantifiable, not achieved by that officer? Was there an establishment plan, which he did not observe in the performance of his duties as head of this Service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u32	Minister, before I give you the floor to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd Kamaterou General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Fotella, on 11 November the Special Committee on Institutions and Transparency discussed the issue of replacing the Director of Home Affairs of the Greek Police, where the reasons for this replacement were developed. However, I have no reason to complete any additional information and to inform you that when we are still talking about two hundred cases, and last year, ninety-one were pending, and when there were two hundred and fifteen proceedings and preliminary examinations, when there were hundreds of fourteen, it is clear last year that the quantitative - but also shows some quality characteristics - the reasons for this replacement, which had the sole purpose of increasing the effectiveness of this Office, which has to deal with huge problems as regards internal controls in the security bodies, but also in cases outside the Greek Police, for which this Office is responsible. Therefore, I repeat that the effectiveness criterion was the main reason for this replacement, as mentioned in detail at the meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency on 11 November. Now, of course, there is also a second part in your question, which you did not ask, but I have to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u34	I have it for my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u35	This part, of course, combines with many other factors and issues which we discussed in a nice debate we had yesterday when you came to the Ministry as a representative of your party to be informed about the issues of the Security Councils. The Greek police crises and promotions - you will allow me to take the lead in the second part, and you will also say about the issues on your side - at this time they are based on the c.d. 24/1997, as amended below, which takes into account the individual files of the officers and other members of the Security Bodies, their characteristics and performance. From there on, if you ask me whether I am satisfied and what efforts are being made to improve this system, I will inform you in the second part, so as not to exceed my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Minister, because I read the minutes of the committee, you spoke abstractly of general quantitative characteristics. But the truth that we both know about it is that big assumptions take time. However, what is remarkable is that you are the first person I hear to say negatively about the work of this particular officer. Allow me to say that Potami is perhaps the only party that was also election supportive, but continues to support, the need for the Greek police to be colonised and the democratisation of its operation. I also heard you - you do not disagree with me - that in total the way the Greek Police operates needs immediate changes and, above all, it is the system of crises and promotions that needs to be changed from its base. The need for a radical review of the existing system of crises and promotions is undeniable and, finally, a fair and objective system must be established away from political and external intervention, as is appropriate for a modern police. The current Presidential Decrees, both 24/1997 and 373/2002, provide for certain criteria, quantitative and qualitative, for crises. But the discretionary power of the Minister concerned is crucial, so that the procedure can be summarised from now on: the Minister proposes, the Chief signes, that is, accepts, and then the Minister confirms. I think that the conditions have matured enough so that all parties can be invited to a dialogue and to the system of crises and promotions of the Greek Police to become more remarkable, on the basis of objective criteria, such as studies, languages, evaluation of experience and others. So what I am asking is if it is in your immediate intentions to move towards a sweeping change, to modernise the system of crises, if you intend to contribute to the introduction of an objective, rational, fair and, above all, a worthwhile system of crises and promotions for the Greek Police, if there are already initiatives that you have already taken, and if so, what are they? I would also like to ask whether there is a specific timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u38	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Fotella, you will allow me to find some contradiction. I don't know, if you want any sweeping changes, once the subject of a change has been raised. So, yes or no to the sweeping changes? I am not going to insist on the issue of sweeping change, nor do I believe that there should be any need for a sweeping change for no reason. The rationalisation needs to be carried out, changes need to be made where necessary and the areas that they render and we are pleased with their performance must be maintained. Indeed, on the issue of crises and promotions, we must continue to be modernised, we must continue to receive our lessons from other public bodies or - if you want - and from abroad. An effort has been launched since October 2014 - from what I see here in my updates - to modernise the system of crises and promotions. For some bureaucratic reason it's stuck. This effort continued in May 2015. And at the moment, following orders I have given, is it from the day before, namely, 24/11, at the Secretary-General's office of 24/11, an overall proposal that takes into account, update and codify the provisions, provides for a change in the method of rating, notification and awarding copies of the ratings to interested parties, a justification for the rating for those assessed as excellent, so as to stop this phenomenon, where everyone is excellent - and then we do not know who to judge or then say "why have you decommissioned me, since I was excellent?" - and validation of the rating by the relevant crisis councils. In this direction, we want to continue. We have no intentions, no intention of a partisan system. Finally, the Security Body must move towards the service of the Greek people and the public interest, because any other'multiple' service of other interests at the moment is beyond our intentions and is a dangerous perception. That is where we will move, based on the criteria of effectiveness, and I think that from the moment I'm at the Ministry, one could not blame me for not making any changes and parts where it takes. After all, we talked about it yesterday. Your proposals, however, are welcome, as are all parties, in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u40	We have recorded them, Minister, as well as your statement and commitment that you will not make any party changes. However, the House has still not received a really good answer - it is none of your business, it is not on your day - an officer, Mr Panagiotis Stathis, who has even been demobilised by the previous government at the age of 50. No one's even answered why. I do. But the government has not answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u41	It's none of my business, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u42	It's none of your business. You have no responsibility. I declare it, so we don't get any misunderstandings. Well, thank you very much. We move on to the last to debate, the eighth Question No 174/18-11-2015, the top-level question of the first cycle of Members of Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the retroactive abolition of favourable regulation for the young insured of the Single Fund of Independent Workers (EBRD). In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u43	Minister, Article 21 of Law No.4337/2015 abolished, and retroactively, the possibility for young people, from 1-1 to 1993, to choose a lower insurance category. This favourable arrangement had been proposed by your Government itself by Article 39 of Law No.4331 in July 2015. The overall problems that are plagued by the EDF insurance sector are to be added, Minister, and this. The dismantled provision enabled persons with reduced income to be subject to lower categories of insurance, which also had positive effects on the recovery of the fund. By abolishing this arrangement, anyone who is unable to pay his contributions is not simply inconsistent, but actually out of work, Minister. Young scientists who have stayed in our country have to deal with, apart from unemployment, the irrationality of paying something when they don't get anything like that. The Greek citizen, the engineer, the lawyer, the doctor, the notary may not be required to pay contributions which do not correspond to his income or to his ability. This favourable provision, as was only adopted last July, was useful. The new provision, which reintroduces the former system of automatic overhaul of insurance contributions, lacks a reasonable basis for us. You ask yourself, Minister: why have you insisted and proceeded with the abolition of a favourable regulation which you have even introduced and established a few months ago, despite the fact that its implementation has proved successful? How will you deal with increasing migratory flows abroad of highly trained Greek scientists?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. It is true, Mr Saridis, that this is a provision that would have a short duration, which expired on 31 December 2016. However, the evidence I will give you in my answer proves, and I want you to see it in your party, that a brave reform of the insurance system is needed. It is interesting what happened with this single fund regulation, and how many people have rushed to take advantage of this possibility. I have to tell you before that in the second half of 2014, about half of the engineers - I have to tell you the CSMED figures, not to tell you all the sectors - they did not pay contributions. They paid about thirty - three thousand, while sixty - six thousand more were the insured people who had to pay on the basis of the warnings they received. About half of them did not pay, and that is why this provision was made by our Government, in fact, in order to make it easier. Twenty - thousands of engineers applied to the lower classes, about seven thousand of the health workers and about four thousand of the lawyers. But let us stick to the example of engineers. About seven thousand out of twenty thousand were debtors. The other thirteen thousand were not debtors, but they chose to reduce the contribution to their sector in order to save money for their other needs. It is legitimate, in a situation of crisis, but not always, and we do not know to what extent that was necessary for everyone. Because there is a torque unfortunately, because there is no confidence in the social security system, many to avoid incurring even where they can. We don't know the size. But let's stay with those who have the real problem. They're only seven thousand. Twenty-six thousand, that is, they stayed outside. Of the total of thirty - four thousand debtors, only seven thousand rushed to take advantage of this possibility. Therefore, what we need to do is to do something much more drastic for the insured in this winter sector, especially the engineers who have the largest number of uninsured and the largest number of debtors. And what we need to do is regulate the social security system so that it can respond to the insurance contributions it has to pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u46	Mr Saridis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u47	Mr Minister, that is precisely why you mentioned it is necessary for your side to proceed with this arrangement. You can imagine that for this very reason neither half of those who have been called upon to implement these regulations have been able to implement these regulations, so you can see how impoverishment the industry has reached, if anything! I come from the engineering sector and say directly that I was one of them - half - who did not go ahead with the regulation of the 2014 debts, due to various other professional and personal obligations. Minister, you have not answered the specific question I raised to you. Perhaps through an insurance bill that you may bring in to see your view of dealing with this problem. Anyway, you're wasting your time and your government. We leave time and spend the time the Greek people pays him. You have to understand that you have to move. We no longer have the right to delay. Europe asks, the creditors ask, the institutions ask. They say, do something. Why don't you? You must finally do something, Minister. You told me some evidence. I, too, have some information - small - which may have benefited, at least a little, from the EBRD insurance fund, but they have benefited, Minister, and you should have taken this into account. According to these figures, the revenue collected from the EFF increased from 48% to 61% for engineers, from 72% to 85% for lawyers and from 62% to 75% for doctors. So that was the legislator and privileged to assess and evaluate them. He did not evaluate them, proceeded with the abolition of this regulation and brought back the new one, which for us is socially unfair and disastrous for the sustainability of the EBRD. The big question is whether and then exactly what arrangements you have for the EFF will be able to make for the sustainability of this insurance fund. For us, the answer is 'no', but we would like your position on this very clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u49	Mr Saridis, I did not claim that this provision was well abolished. I claimed it was ineffective, inadequate. The fact that it was abolished was also explained when it was abolished on the date of the adoption of the relevant provision abolishing this earlier. And it was explained that it was a situation in which there was a suffocating pressure on the government in view of the recapitalisation of the banks to accept a condition which, for us, was not sustainable in the face of a reform that we are moving on. And we're going too fast for such a project, it's not too late for our steps. Explains also that about 1/5 of the mechanical debtors, who are uninsured, exploited this option of selecting two lower categories. In 1/5, because the rest didn't get into this process. This shows that the measure is not sufficient. We need to make a reform so that we can get people insured in our country. And they're not insured. You know, I suppose it is well known to you, but also to the whole country, that for a long time we have had people suffering from serious illnesses, without the government having the opportunity to take medicine today. Let me tell you one more thing. Let us praise the Government that Article 37 of Law No.4331/2015- of July, 2-7-2015- we maintained it. With this article we abolished the criminal prosecutions, the penalties that were pending and the trials that had not been conducted for those who were due to the EFF and the OAU. This is not being hanged as a riot break against our helpless fellow humans who cannot pay for their insurance contributions. We have to keep this, of course, and we have kept it. The other is integrated into the reform. But, as I told you, when 1/5 of the debtors does not enter into a favourable arrangement for selecting lower social security contributions, this shows that the problem in our economy is too tragic. This is what forces many of our worthy colleagues, scientists, workers, to resort to job search in other countries. And that is a matter and a bet for the government, for the development we must bring, so that we can keep the world here and work for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-26-S1-commons.u51	With the consent of the House at 10.38 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, November 27, 2015 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliamentary control, a topical and urgent debate.
