ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 9-11-2015, the minutes of its sittings, of Monday 9 November 2015, with regard to the vote on the entire motion: ‘To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (Part II)’, FEC 51/A/104-1997]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 12 November 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 93/9-11-2015 by MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Culture and Sports on ensuring the long operation of the International Film Festival “OLYPIA” for children and young people held in the Tower of the Law of Elia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 97/9-11-2015 of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about development planning for Drama Law. 3. The question by No. 88/6-11-2015 of the current question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the bureaucratic obstacles to the production of the legendary Greek car "PONY". 4. The question by number 87/6-11-2015 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism regarding the country's development prospects. 5. The question raised by Mr Theocharis Theocharis on the attitude of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the treatment of international assessors at the Schools of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. 6. Under number 91/9-11-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the lack of a clear legal basis for the counting of guardian of the schoollands. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy about the need for a immediate removal of the vessel "MYTILNI" from the port of Charlotte Samos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 98/9-11-2015, a topical question by the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the delay in the payment of the single payment to Greek producers. 3. The Question No 89/6-11-2015 by MP Pireas of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the upgrading of maritime education. 4. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the self-reliance of the Greek Open University. 5. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance about the auctions of the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering its agenda....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I am afraid we can't do this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u3	Don't cancel the 2013 account!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u4	I ask, and, if this House agrees, we can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u7	The 2013 Balance sheet and the State's balance sheet are a draft law, which has been introduced for discussion in plenary. It cannot therefore be discussed without the presence of the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u8	The Minister's on his way. I ask if the House agrees to begin, because we have some communications to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u9	Let's start like this, in that sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u10	That's what I'm asking. Of course, without the Minister's presence, there can be no debate. That's understandable. If this House agrees, we should start - because the Minister is on his way - at least announcing me. We have some communications to do. Do you co-operate?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u11	The announcements, yes, but not the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u12	All right, let's make the announcements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u13	With an essay accent, which is slower.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u14	Hepato-Carbon or continental? I have the honour to make the following announcements to this House: The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits the reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Creating the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, following the Correction Protocol thereto’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, and its Correction Practice’. C. Other: ex II. ‘Creating the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, following the Correction Protocol thereto’. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Repeal: a) of 28 June 2015 Act of Law of the Ministry of Finance’ (A'66), (c) of 14 July 2015 Act of Legislative Area ‘Supplementation of the Act of Legislative Area of 28 June 2015’ (A'65), (c) of 14 July 2015, with regard to the extension of the Act of Legislation of Legislation of the Legislative Area of 28 June 2015, (a) of the Act of Accession of 28 June 2015, as amended by the Act of Accession of Legislation of the Legislation of the Legislative Area (A'66) and in force, with regard to the extension of the Act of Accession of 4 July 2015, restrictive measures, suspension of enforcement of all kinds of guarantees and extension of the Act of Accession of 20 July 2015, as well as modifications of the Laws of 18 July 2015, and of 18 July 2015, amending the Act of Accession of 20 July 2015.), the European Commission, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) (A '90), (f) of 17 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Urgent Arrangements for the Restoration of Loss by Extremist Clinics in the Regional Unit of Evros" (A 97), (g) of 19 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Additional provision to n. 2292/1995 ‘Organisation and functioning of the Ministry of National Defence, Administration and Control of the Armed Forces and Other Provisions’ (A'100), (h) of 22 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content ‘Urgent arrangements for the smooth functioning of the Local Government Organisations’ (A' 102), (j) of 10 September 2015 Act of Legislative Area ‘Enforcement of the school year 2015-2016 and the orderly functioning of school units’ (A' 108), (k) of 25 September 2015 Act of Legislative Content ‘Enterprises for the smooth start of the school year 2015-2016 and the orderly functioning of school units’ (A' 108), (k) of 25 September 2015 4111/2013’ (A' 119) and (l) of 7-10-2015 Act of Legislative Content "Consolidation of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economy, Development and Tourism, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and Education, Research and Religious Affairs" (A' 127). As you can see from legislative acts, we have enough. We're going well. Finally, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Following the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, ratified by n. Regulation (EC) No 3017/2002’. Also, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and three educational sessions from the 6th New Smyrna High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, the honourable Member, Maria Antonio, is calling for a short-day absence from abroad - particularly in Brussels - from 15 to 17 November. The travel and subsistence costs will be borne privately. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u15	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I want permission too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u17	And you want permission? You didn't give us any paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, did the Minister go to the Old Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u19	I suggest we interrupt for ten minutes. We have no other way to wait for the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. As you can see, we've been searched. There is no 'amber alert' for Ministers. Minister, you could give an explanation to this House for your delay, because I cannot imagine that it suggests a lack of respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u21	Look, I'm coming from a teleconferencing. I have to say that my obligations are more than one. The obligations of this House, the obligation to negotiate...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u22	We all had.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u23	I had a teleconferencing this morning, and it'll follow at 16:00, I hope we're done by then - a new meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u24	You don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u25	Of course it is a budgetary obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u26	Will you stay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u28	Here you go, Mr. Comrade, but soon, let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u29	If there is such a problem - and it seems to be a constant problem - with the ministers, due to teleconferencing, conferences, contacts with the troika and the others, let them also put one, two ministers to come up to inform and answer the 'paradics' here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I too would like to speak for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u31	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u32	Minister, it may be a lack of experience, but the style and content of your speech is really unacceptable and you are not honoured. Because, saying 'I have more serious jobs' - that is the sound of your voice and the content of your speech - it does not honor Parliament or you personally. It is understandable that there may be another priority, especially when it is international or internal. The government has many ministers, but also the Undersecretaries. Procedures may start with forecasts. And your ministry has several civilians, more than one. That is why you should have seen it. In any case, since you did not see it because of disobedience, a more polite way of speaking is a good way, a better way. Respect Parliament, sir, especially when you are appointed and political.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u33	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Mada, do you want the floor or do you want to close it here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u35	I would like the floor for a moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u36	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Stavura, can we turn this off?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u38	Indeed, Minister, we need respect for Parliament. I would like to tell you that in this ministry and your predecessor, who had the same status, was always consistent and also had negotiations. Others who were in the past were also consistent in the plenary. So the style and way you spoke was, in my view, unacceptable. I would also like to remind you this: during your physical presence in all the committees, you always have the same argument and always in four meetings you have presented a delay of between thirty and fifty minutes, claiming that there is a need for negotiation with the Troika and that you have more to do. I repeat: this shows a lack of respect for Parliament. There are your colleagues, like Mr Mardas...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u39	Put a perfect one, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u40	...who was present and all the members of the previous governments were always present and had...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u41	Let us now agree that it must not be repeated. Shall we move on?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u42	For a while, I'd like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u43	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u44	Excuse me, Mr. Juliaraki, half a second. I think it is moments when we all understand and the difficulties they have and the procedures they have, without that in any case meaning that, in view of these procedures that are running and will continue to run, Parliament can be underestimated, without that being the case. I did not hear the Minister, I entered as soon as he was finished, so I cannot speak either of such tone or of such things. However, I would like to say and ask that we close here, we do not give more dimension to an issue on which we can all contribute to stopping here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u45	He had another government minister and could send him in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u46	Yes, but yesterday Mr. Loverdos put a question on Mr. Marda, because he hadn't signed. There can't be one and the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u47	It's over! Here we go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: a. ‘Preparation of the State's Report for the financial year 2013’ and (b) for the financial year 2013. ‘Preparation of the Balance sheet of the State for the financial year 2013’. The State's statement and balance sheet shall be discussed as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, with the appropriate application of Articles 122, 123(8), 107 and 97. In accordance with Rule 107, which applies accordingly, the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 5 November 2015 decided to hold the debate at a meeting and, if necessary, proceed to a second. We are proposing that a list of speakers should be included on a card and that the parties should not be given a list of speakers, that there should be a wider participation of MPs, with five minutes speaking time and with a rotation of MPs. Only the rapporteurs after the last speaker's speech has been completed have the right to secondary education in this procedure. So Mr. Giannakides from SYRIZA has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u49	Good morning. Today we are discussing the state balance sheet and balance sheet. It is a debate that is a very important parliamentary procedure as the government is accountable to Parliament for the implementation of the budget under discussion and for the verification of its forecasts and expectations. At today's meeting, however, we are facing the oxymomium to discuss and ratify the implementation of a budget drawn up and implemented by another government, a government with a different political and economic perception and a fiscal adjustment programme, which, as the most emphatically demonstrated and the evidence prolonged by the reports in question, has resulted in a recession, a constant decline in the gross national product and an increase in the ratio of government debt to GDP. Because the budget implemented in 2013 not only inherited the deep recession of 2012, but also incorporated a rational fiscal adjustment based on the same incorrect macroeconomic plans in previous years. On the already winter-driven Greek economy, the government continued the same policy, further exacerbating the economic climate. More specifically, the 2013 budgetary effort was translated into measures of around EUR 7.5 billion, resulting in GDP growth falling by 4%, as did domestic demand shrink by the same percentage, while unemployment increased to 27.5%. To put it schematically, we are discussing the balance sheet of a year that, in order to achieve the targets of redundancies in the medium term, the Samaras government has come down black rolls to the ERT, which has made public officials and, in general, 'compatible' public finances. There is a claim that this very painful adjustment of the years 2011-2013 was that it led the Greek economy to growth in 2014. Leaving aside the dissolutionary consequences of this adjustment for society and without many technical details, I simply mention the following: The cyclically corrected primary surplus recorded by the Greek economy in 2013 was 6.5%, while for 2014 the corresponding size ranged to 4.5%. In other words, we had a relaxation of budgetary policy, which led to a 0.75% anemic growth, precisely the return over the previous year. The reason is obvious: Elections are coming. Nothing different from a typical electoral cycle of the type'stick the straps with a dead-end fiscal policy for two years and relax them just before the elections, to collect some votes'. At the same time, back in 2013, the budget was exceeded per expense and the main sizes of the economy continued to deteriorate. In particular, a primary deficit of EUR 5,5 billion was recorded in the 2013 report, compared with a primary deficit target of EUR 2.3 billion, while at the same time the central government deficit amounted to EUR 11.7 billion, compared with the target of EUR 11.2 billion. Net revenue received amounted to EUR 54.4 billion, with a de minimis target of 1.14%, with a significant contribution from non-tax revenue due to the repayment of sums from the central banks of the euro area holding Greek state bonds. At the same time, however, significant failures were recorded on the tax revenue side and especially on the revenues from VAT on mineral oils, on VAT on other activities, on the revenues from excise duties on diesel, and on the expected revenues from the income tax on natural persons, which, in our view, shows how little the government at the time had understood the strengths and limits of the Greek society which every year saw its available income shrinking. It was failures to reflect the targeting of the preventive measures against the middle and poorer layers, when those involved on the Lagard press list enjoyed immunity. At the same time, the same failures demonstrate the need to strengthen the state's control and input mechanisms, both by strengthening staff and control tools and by adopting best practices at international level. In addition, another year was observed to increase dues. These are, for the most part, direct and indirect taxes as well as surcharges, fines and penalty payments. More specifically, the dues increased by around EUR 7 billion compared to 2012, thus exceeding EUR 62 billion or 34% of GDP. This size, combined with the significant deviation recorded on the public lending piece, shows emphatically three things: Firstly, it confirms the fact that the poorest sections of income had already reached - if not exceeded - the limits of their burden-resistances and abilities. So tax burdens should be redistributed for the benefit of the weaker and burdening those who actually have the opportunity to pay, that is, the most wealthy. Secondly, it demonstrates the urgent need to improve the effectiveness of the State's input mechanisms. Thirdly, it indicates the need to redefine the system of fines and surcharges so that they correspond in reality, both in terms of their collection and in terms of their impact on the financial statements of the State. At this point I would like to take note of the Court of Auditors' pointing out that the non-summary of uncollected customs revenues on the receivable balance of state account, which contradicts the provisions laid down by the Constitution and the law, is inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution and the law. Finally, a special reference is needed for credit revenues, namely, loans to which the Greek State proceeded during the year and which was increased, compared with the Greek government's budget estimates, by about 16%, i.e. EUR 10.4 billion, of which approximately EUR 3 billion was used to exceed the Greek government's interest-payer threshold. It should be noted that when in the first half of 2015 the Greek Government wanted to apply the same practice in order to stimulate the liquidity of its state funds, it was banned by the institutions, while the opposition was against it. On the contrary, Greece has been the only country in the history of the projects concerned, which has paid off its own funds for about a year without the possibility of a new loan. Crossing the spending side, real expenditure amounted to about 134 billion euros, recording a gap of 12.5 billion euros or 10% compared to forecasts. This overrun is mainly due to two factors: first, a payment of EUR 7.2 billion for the participation of the Greek State in the capital increase of the Financial Stability Fund; second, a payment of EUR 5.3 billion, mainly to social security institutions and nursing institutions. It is noted that the initial allocations planned amounted to EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 100 million respectively. As in the Court of Auditors' report, these discrepancies were major changes in the composition of the budget and a supplementary budget should have been presented. On the contrary, it is positively estimated that the reduction in the cost of serving the public debt interest by EUR 2 billion, thus implying a reduction in the cost of borrowing through the loans of the Support Facility. We are, of course, waiting today for the opposition to recognise the current government's attempt to further reduce the cost of borrowing, which has already been achieved to some extent through the reduced interest rates provided for in the new loan agreement with the ESM. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little tolerant, Mr President, I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u50	But your time isn't over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u51	Mr. President, excuse me. The time has to be cleared up so that our rapporteur will know exactly how much he will speak, as will the other rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u52	It's eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u53	No, it's not eight minutes. It's a regular bill discussion. Fifteen minutes is time for the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u54	It's eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u55	No, it's a regular bill procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u56	There was tolerance to the first speakers. The others should adapt accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u57	There's no way. It's a regular bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u58	It is not urgent, Mr President, to be eight minutes. The normal procedure provides for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u59	It's normal procedure. The rapporteurs have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u60	It's a bill, it's 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u61	It's a regular bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u62	And you told us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u63	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u64	On what grounds, Mr President, are eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u65	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u66	With regard to the balance sheet, I would like to focus on the Court of Auditors' observations, which, despite the fact that they have been expressed on several occasions, are still not taken into account. As a result, the balance sheet is unable to reflect reality in its totality. Despite the Court's notes in previous financial years' reports, the Greek State does not know exactly what the property is, it cannot assess its value and it cannot account for any concessions. At the same time, the level of precarious claims, which have a high probability of default, is not determined and similar accounting records are not carried out either. As a result, the State cannot accurately calculate which of the outstanding debts may be collected. It is therefore necessary to activate the time-limiting procedures for recoverable debts, any debt write-off and the development of information systems for monitoring the relevant procedures. It is worth noting that the present government has attempted to take forward on the issue of late payment, introducing the one hundred instalment adjustment, which has brought considerable results and which, despite the changes that have been made, is still an extremely important tool to deal with the problem. As far as public debt is concerned, this was set at EUR 321 billion, namely 176% of GDP. Since 2009, with the exception of 2012 due to PSI, the ratio of government debt to GDP has been growing, while the Greek economy is sinking into recession, with Gross National Product falling by more than 25%. It is therefore obvious that the debt is unsustainable. That is why, in cooperation with the partners, we intend to move forward as soon as possible in order to allow the Greek economy to breathe. And that is an effort to which we should all go together, having ensured the greatest possible consensus. Finally, I would like to refer to the ESRB, which is a major tool for developing and breathing the Greek economy's financing within a framework of almost zero liquidity. As the Court of Auditors report says, for 2013 the objectives set have largely been achieved, and that is something that is valued positively. The current government is fighting lastingly to increase the European funds that flow into our country and intends to optimise both their absorption and their efficiency. In this direction, we believe that the Court of Auditors' labelling on the design and operation of a more efficient system for monitoring and controlling the implementation of the NSRP projects should be given particular weight, the functional integration of the information systems of the services concerned and of the imprinting of the quantitative elements for implementing the programmes, in order to set specific objectives and to facilitate their evaluation. So what lessons do we learn from today's discussion of the report? Certainly a first answer is the avoidance of the forward measures, as followed in 2012-2014. Secondly, offsetting any material measures from targeted parallel actions and - most importantly - the need to create a web of protection for the most socially weak. At this point I would like to stress that our philosophy is very different from that of today's Officerial Opposition and social dividend. We cannot and cannot understand social policy as a tip, as a charity, as a provision from what is left over. We need structures, thorough planning and political continuity. The law to address the humanitarian crisis is such an effort, as it includes targeted interventions in the areas of housing, feeding and other essential needs. On the other hand, the highly advertised social dividend, beyond the logic of its incorporation, was a pilot project for the continuation of which in the second half of 2015 the government had not even signed the relevant budget line. Therefore, neither institutional nor operational nor economical has its immediate continuation been ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I need to stress the criticality of the juncture. But the messages coming from the open fronts are positive. The results of stress tests promote the successful completion of the banking recapitalisation process, thus restoring any confidence in the banking system. At the same time, the protection of the deposits and the interests of the Greek State is guaranteed. At the same time, the influx of European funds to support development is beginning. The European Parliament, by a overwhelming majority, approved the provision of 35 billion euros to Greece on favourable terms, for the period 2014-2020, as well as the repayment of all remaining amounts for the period 2007-2013, without national cofinancing being required, with a direct benefit for our country of EUR 2 billion. Finally, all available data show that the recession for the current year will be milder forecasts, which is moving forward in efforts to get out of the crisis faster. Our priority remains to defend the weakest and to preserve social cohesion. In this respect, tackling the humanitarian crisis, combating unemployment and a fairer distribution of tax burdens should be a key element in the targeting of the budget for the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u67	Practical in such discussions was the time I suggested at the outset, since we have only had one meeting. But because I see that the list of speakers on the part of Members is not huge, you will have the time you have asked for, that is, fifteen minutes unregulated. I would like to inform you that the New Democracy defines for today's debate a parliamentary representative of the Members of Parliament, Mr Brutsis. The People's Association - Golden Dawn appoints the special speaker of Athens, Mr Panayotaros and Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ilias Kashiaris. On the part of the Democratic Association, a special speaker is appointed by the MEP, Ilias Yiannis Koutsoukos. A special speaker is appointed from the Potami, Mr. Harris Theocharis and a parliamentary representative, Mr. Spyros Dannelis. The Independent Greeks appoint a special speaker, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos and Parliamentary Representative Mr Vassilis Kokalis. Mr Stavros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking part today - of course with a very long delay - in an important accountability process, in which it is assessed, through the discussion and ratification of the State's accounts and balance sheet, the reliability of the preparation and implementation of the State budget for the financial year 2013. This is an important year, a year in which most of the budget objectives were achieved, a rare event for the Greek economy, and not only a turning year in the country's budget, a year in which the country returned after many years, earlier than forecasts, with citizens' sacrifices, in budgetary equilibrium, achieving a significant, higher target, primary surplus. This shows that the estimates and forecasts of the government at the time were a product of realistic analysis of reality data. On the contrary, the assessments and forecasts of the SYRIZA Secretary-General and current Minister of Finance fell completely out. I would remind you that during the 2013 budget debate, then SYRIZA's general rapporteur contended with certainty that "there is no economist who really believes that this budget will come out". I will not even try to reverse this position, which was insulting to us at the time. After all, it is in direct contrast with reality. I shall therefore be passing it, after I have taken it as another one of the excess verbal excesses and uprooting forecasts of SYRIZA officials. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2013 budget was drawn up in an environment of initial and gradual fiscal and macroeconomic stabilisation, which was the result of the initiatives taken and implemented by the then government since the summer of 2012, to address the conditions of strong uncertainty and suffocation that were then accumulated. The priorities and objectives of economic policy were then the stabilisation of the Greek economy for the year 2013, with a view to its rapid recovery and its sustainable development in the coming years, the achievement of sustainable primary surpluses at the level not only of state budget but of general government and the modulation of country's exit conditions on markets to cover its financial needs. Today, judging by the outcome, according to the State's Report and Balance sheet for 2013, the country achieved its main objectives. In particular: Firstly, the recession has slowed considerably, while it has been - and this is important - and lower than forecasts. In particular, the recession stood at 3.2% in 2013 from 7.3% in 2012. In fact, the forecast for 2013 was for much deeper recession of 4.5%. This development was the basis for the country's return to a positive rate of economic growth in 2014, which unfortunately, under the sole responsibility of SYRIZA and ANEL, is not repeated in 2015. Secondly, the economic, consumer, entrepreneurial, investment climate has been strengthened. Market psychology has improved. Third, the cost of borrowing was significantly reduced. The yield difference between the Greek and the German ten-year state bond was rapidly deviated from the two thousand seven hundred base points in February 2012 at the six hundred base points at the end of 2013, while the rate of the six-month Greek government interest rate at the end of 2013 was lower than at the beginning of 2010. Fourthly, significant structural changes have taken place. Greece was the country with the highest, among the OECD member states, pace of reforms, and the progress of implementation of the NSRF 2007-2013 was satisfactory. In particular, as the Court of Auditors report we possess confirms, "accelerating the implementation of the ESRB has been found, as the absorption of the total available co-financed expenditure from 46% in 2012 to 68% in 2013 has increased". Fifth, much of the public's dues to the private sector were repaid. These obligations, as the Court of Auditors' report confirms, have been significantly reduced, from EUR 9.6 billion in 2012 to EUR 4.8 billion in 2013 - that is, a reduction of approximately EUR 5 billion in one year! - by presenting a vertical reduction of 50% in one year in 2013, thereby substantially strengthening liquidity in the real economy. In particular, as stated in the draft budget of the current government for 2016, ‘the effort started in 2012 by the activation of a financing programme for the repayment of outstanding obligations to third parties, while complying with specific conditions,’ as stated in the preliminary draft of the current government, ‘it was ‘implemented by the end of 2014’. Unfortunately, this year, with the sole responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the due debts have again been launched and are already 50% higher than the end of 2014. Sixthly, the competitiveness of the economy has been strengthened. The current account balance became surplus and remained surplus in 2014. Unfortunately, this year, with the sole responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, we are constantly degrading ourselves to the positions of international competitiveness. Seventh, the deposits stabilised and gradually returned to the banking system. In particular, the amount of deposits of enterprises and households was strengthened and formed at around EUR 163 billion at the end of 2013. I would remind you that today, with the sole responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the deposits have collapsed to EUR 122 billion. It was EUR 163 billion at the end of 2013, and today it is EUR 122 billion. Eighth, the budgetary policy objectives were achieved for a second consecutive year and the country returned to the primary surpluses, while the budgetary target - by programme - was for a balanced primary surplus in 2013. This primary surplus, in structural terms, was the highest in the Eurozone. Ninth, the achievement and overcompensation of the budgetary target for the year under review, namely 2013, and the provision of sufficient liquidity in 2014 as a result of the sound financial management followed, gave the possibility of distributing social dividends for 2014 to support citizens and families with low total annual income and low-value real estate. The number of beneficiaries receiving the social dividend was seven hundred thousand households and the total amount allocated was 455 million euros. I would remind you that the amount allocated by the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government for the humanitarian crisis, which is also, ladies and gentlemen, only EUR 200 million outside the budget - was EUR 455 million last year and EUR 200 million now - while the financial equivalents for its allocation are still being sought. The objectives were achieved, both in the revenue and expenditure side. For example, according to the Court of Auditors' report, net revenue collected in the budget reached the target, despite a deep and protracted recession. In fact, revenue on a budgetary basis has exceeded the targets set, which is the first time in the last seven years and for this year, in a year that, for the first time since 2010, there have been targeted tax reductions, such as the 10 percentage points reduction in the VAT rate at the time. Others followed in 2014, which confirms - and this is particularly important - the report by the European Central Bank, which first came out, according to which the reductions in direct taxation, particularly in 2014, have made a decisive contribution to strengthening the public's available income since the second half of 2014, that is to say, since summer 2014. Therefore, targeted tax concessions have been made, which the citizens have seen as an increase in available income since the middle of 2014. The report of the European Central Bank, which came out yesterday, confirms this for the first time in contrast to the great new tax burdens imposed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government this year. The primary expenditure on the ordinary budget was lower than the budget objectives. This development reflects the fact that management had been controlled and budgetary discipline had been promoted in the public expenditure side, with the result that the performance of budgetary policy interventions corresponded to the initial estimates. It is worth noting that the payments of the Public Investment Program were increased by 6%, compared with 2012, supporting the stabilisation of the Greek economy as well. Eleventh, the rate of increase in public debt, despite its temporary, indeed escalation, was limited. Indeed, in absolute terms, as the Court of Auditors report confirms, the public debt decreased by EUR 46 billion over the period 2011-2013. The increase in debt in 2013 was a temporary, timely one and, most importantly, was counterbalanced by the acquisition of assets by the Greek State. In particular, this apparent increase in debt this year was the result of an obligation to imprint the disbursement of funds in order to achieve the financing of the banks' recapitalisation. However, the debt created by the disbursement of the funds is seen by assets that constituted and constitute the property of the Greek State with projected disposal and, at that time, a resale value. A value, of course, that today under sole responsibility of the SYRIZA and ANEL Government has been evaporated. For example, the value of the shares held by the Greek State in the systemic banks by the previous recapitalisation is now, at around EUR 3 billion, from 15 billion at the end of 2014, which is a 80% reduction this year, with huge potential costs for Greek taxpayers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] On this point, and contrary to what the SYRIZA rapporteur said about debt, I should like to note the following, which is also noted by the Court of Auditors: Firstly, most of it is now held by the partners and the Eurosystem. Secondly, his mediation period has been extended over time. As the Court of Auditors' report confirms, its average residual physical duration at the end of 2013 exceeded sixteen years. Thirdly, the mid-term interest rate on new loans, according to the Court of Auditors' report, was very low, 1.76% on a cash basis. Fourthly, interest expenditure has been at EUR 6.1 billion since 2013, from 12 billion in 2012. All of these elements improved the structure, the profile as called the debt and are key elements of the assessment of its viability. Twelfth, the conditions for exiting the country were created on the markets, which was successfully done twice in 2014 with the issue of five-year and three-year bond, for the first time following the exclusion from international markets in May 2010, and with interest rates that the country has not seen since 2008. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the accounts and balance sheet for 2013 reflect both the realisation of forecasts in the preparation of the budget and its effective implementation. These elements have improved quantitatively and qualitatively the country's credibility capital and have become a headline for the country in 2014, as the draft budget of the current government concludes, to return to a positive rate of economic growth, public finances have been in stabilisation, available income has increased, competitiveness has been strengthened and successfully recovered from international capital markets. It is true, however, that the state of the economy was still fragile. So from the beginning of 2015 the confusion, the uncertainty, the repetitiveness and the inefficiency of the SYRIZA and ANEL government are causing enormous costs for the Greek economy and painful for citizens. Unfortunately, we've been back in a catholic spectral.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Stavura, it's obvious that the achievements don't fit in time. Please put a perfect one at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u70	I shall conclude, Mr President. The country with heavy steps of steadfastness is crumbling, sinking into the stadium and not just in the field of the economy. In this sense, sooner or later - and obviously sooner - the second left government will have to give tests of effectiveness and pass them. Fortunately, citizens have begun to understand, in addition to the complete denial of promises, the inability of the Radical Left to predict, plan realistically, to perform effectively. The process of escalating their discomfort has begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th High School (B) of Nea Smyrni. We are also attending our meeting of nineteen students and students and a fellow teacher from the Elementary School of Nea Yenia Ziridis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start talking about the 2013 balance sheet and balance sheet, I would like to comment once again on the attitude of the new 'poulou' of the lenders, Mr. Juliarakis, who, as is shown, is fully depreciated by Parliament. I would also like to comment on the ongoing effort made by the statements by Mr Juncker and our other 'friends', who referred to the 'problem' of the 10 km sea that exists between the present borders of Greece and Turkey, saying 'we are fighting for 10 km of the sea'. We therefore tell him that for these 10 km of the sea and for every inch of land on Greek soil and marine space they have given their lives millions of Greeks in the past and will continue to do so in the future. So, Mr. Juncker and his other friends stop making such statements on the occasion of the refugee issue at the expense of our country's national sovereignty. Because Greece has a maritime border and there is a way to defend them. I'm coming to something else. The day before yesterday, a Golden Dawn MP was attacked by well-known parastates or others and there was no condemnation by anyone. This is the hypocrisy of the political system, the "constitutional arch" at the expense of the Golden Dawn. Imagine Mr. Lambrou having an indirect relationship with the Golden Dawn in any way. The case "Babis" would have started again calling "Panathenaikis" and said to him "Good morning, Mr. Athanasios" and start arrests, invasions and I don't know anything else. But when a former Minister of your own government is making unspeakable evidence, you are trying to explain and convince the world that nothing is going on at all. After all, your various partners and your executives know that from the past. Mr. Tsipras himself first put signatures for releases and reinforcement of terrorists. The lawyers who have been dealing with you all these years with an incident are disgusting and defending the terrorists and doing all this. And you're not saying a word in substance! You're trying to degrade the subject and take them all crazy. And now let us come to this draft law, the ratification of the 2013 budget statement and balance sheet, which, as Mr Stagiras said, is a very important accountability process. Then SYRIZA was in the bars, denounced the budget, and everything else was done, and in an extremely strong way. Let us remember Mr Lafazan or even Mr Tsipras who was talking about a deficit of democracy or other situations of diversion from the legitimate and democratic good habits of this society. Now, however, you are doing exactly the same to the exquisite extent, and the New Democracy is now giving up for you because you are operating exactly as it was at the time - the irrationality of all its greatness - when it was running along with the modern economic lighters of PASOK, who are key co-responsible for the economic downfall of our country and for the hundreds of millions of euros, which we owe legally or illegally. And in the middle, of course, it is the Greek people, who are crushed by the solid stones of extremism, treason, irrationality and the various interests, specific people, situations, groups, but certainly not of the Greek people. And from the result we are all judged and judged and everything and the correctness of the budget. And as you said, Mr Staikora, the government has achieved its objectives, the government at that time. After more than two years, the result appears to be: Tragedy! And as much as you're trying to justify that everything has happened over the last seven months, this cannot be done because there has been a bare background for decades and especially for the last five years with your actions and actions, your governments, PASOK, the Democratic Left, LAOS and all those who have voted and implemented the memorials in the most disgraceful way. Let's get some numbers that you so much like. Unemployment indicators do not have a downward trend, but unfortunately go up. We have the largest unemployment rate across Europe, and the forecasts are - and of course with the aid and assistance of the first and second times left - to go up for 2016. We laugh at the liquidity in the real economy, which the rapporteur of the New Democracy spoke about here, because there is no liquidity of any kind and there is no real economy, because you have eliminated it in any way you could. And you continue to do that. The indices of recession clearly and have a upward trend, although since 2013 you have made an incredible terminology and said that there is a decline in the growth trend of the recession. Nor in South American third - worldists would you address, as did the Spanish at that time. We have seen the results of your budgets for suicides. Unfortunately, suicides, people who are no longer able to cope with the first time and the second time left, which stirred up all this and were on the side of it all, are continuing. What do you have to say about leaving business abroad? To measure how many companies and private enterprises closed in 2013 when you applied this budget? How many dozens of businesses have gone abroad, where they could, Bulgaria, Romania, Luxembourg, England, anywhere else, where they could find a more stable, safer business environment? For the privatizations, which you so much advertise, nothing has happened. It has been the privatisation of the Greek, which you gave it to some, two years since then, no action has been taken yet, nothing has progressed at all. And now we're having conversations again to see what's going to happen. Really, the second part of the advance - the small advance - was given to the Greek State? Let us remember some other investments. When you signed the TAP agreement, you said we would have thousands of new jobs, that the Greek industries would have a piece of the pipeline-building pie and all that. And finally, nothing. The pipes are made by German consortia. Working at least and of course not ten thousand, as you were saying. And all you have achieved is to upset the local communities, dismantling fertile points in which farmers in these regions cultivated and produced products and earned some income, which you want to extinct. As for the dreadful achievement of increasing the pace of reforms, as you say it is not about being first in Europe in reforms. It is a question of what reforms we are doing. Are we making reforms for the benefit of our country and the Greek people? Are we doing reforms that dissolve and crush the Greek people? Do we make reforms for the benefit of certain economic interests - as you are constantly doing and see it everywhere - or for the benefit of others, such as the increase in VAT on islands, the increase in VAT on tourism, when competitive European countries that impose on us have VAT in 1/3 or 1/4 than we have? In fact, with the 2013 budgets, but also the previous years, on the issue of illegal immigration, which is a serious aspect of the functioning of a society and an economy, what is happening? We see your data. In the Armed Forces, with the incredible reduction in funds, we have come to have a budget of less than EUR 200 million when they have had more than EUR 700 million before judgment. Do you think there is a possibility of preventing all this organized mass invasion by other religions, who only want and say it openly is the conquest of the whole of Europe? Here, too, we have reached the point of seeing Islamic organisations, NGOs, coming and running the tests in Lesvos, Kos and elsewhere, for the benefit of no one knows whom. Well, isn't there a sovereign state? Also for health, we saw how well the 2013 budget was. No one, now, who goes to a public hospital has no luck. The situation is tragic. Those of you who visit for some reason public hospitals will have a taste. For education, we see the caves. The funds are constantly declining with what this implies. We were not told anything about the continuing decline in GDP. For the increase of debt, which is constantly growing, even though five years we are now taking unreasonable measures for the Greek people, you have not said a word. You said it was an instant charge, which would fall. And with the new measures brought by SYRIZA - ANEL, the debt will exceed EUR 400 billion. You referred to the very good course of Greek deposits to systemic banks and said that then there were 133 billion, if I'm not mistaken, and now they have reached 122 billion. All of this on paper, of course, because in the banks there is no saliva, even though many people have been recapitalisationed by the Greek people, who have received more than 200 million euros from 2007 until now. They constantly go bankrupt and do what you can to charge an entire Greek people, as was the first memorial with George Papandreou, and put them on the back of the Greek people. These are the successes of the 2013 budget and they will be both 2014 and 2015, as they were both 2012 and 2011 and go by saying. All the international organisations and institutions that are directing you as if you were puppets - the previous ones, the current ones and possibly the next - to lead the country to total destruction, are the same institutions, the same institutions, the same institutions, the International Monetary Fund, the European Bank and others, who constantly remind you of the failure of all of this project, the programme, namely, that all of their predictions have fallen out. But you see, they don't care at all. They have no responsibility, neither criminal nor political nor economic nor anything else. The Greek people are the animal on which all these institutions do what they want. As for what you were saying, gentlemen of SYRIZA, until a precedent for auditing, haircut, claiming the mortgage, abolishing the ENPIA, increasing minimum wages and pensions, which together with many other promises were your counter-proposals in the crisis, they went to the cart of the useless. And you do the same and worse than your predecessors. You brought a memorandum, which the New Democracy and the PASOK and the Potami voted for - all adopted on 14 August, if you remember well - which makes the two previous memos seem to be something very relaxed and not something special. In conclusion, I would like to remind you of the word 'logism', which Mr Stavros also mentioned, saying that 'We are talking today about accountability, about the events in 2013'. You can be sure that at some point there is going to be a real accountability for everything that has happened in our country - I return to the first issue - that our lenders are trying to get through, who are now doing what they want and on foreign policy issues and impose common patrols on the Aegean with the Turks. The answer of the Golden Dawn to this, as to others, is: the Aegean is only Greek and nothing else, and let them take this as friends and enemies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u73	The special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today, ladies and gentlemen, with relative delay, the 2013 balance sheet and one would hope that this debate will be used to draw useful conclusions, how and under what conditions budgetary targets are being set, what plan they are serving, how they affect the real economy and the economic climate and what the overall result they produce for the people and the country is. I say in advance, however, that, having listened to both the majority rapporteur, but also bearing in mind what Mr Juliarakis said last week in the Committee on Economic Affairs, for the majority, this debate is just another opportunity to repeat the well-known slogans of the country that the bad people have made, namely, the same time that the catastrophic consequences of its own policy are trying to present them as successes, of which he is also a victim - Tsakalotus - when one and only victim is the people who are themselves, finally, called to pay the 6.4 billion m of the third memorandum for 2015-2016, to achieve targets at the end of the three-year period which we considered to be a priority of the five-year fiscal adjustment that preceded them. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2013 budget, which we are debating today, has been a continuation of a difficult attempt at budgetary adjustment that began in 2010. I would remind you - for the history of the future - that it was tabled by the then Minister of Finance Giannis Stournaras, the tripartite government of New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR, representing 48%, please, of the electorate, which was formed in June 2012 after the second elections in June, as the proposal of PASOK had been rejected following the May elections to form a government of broader participation and to form a national negotiating group. I say this in order to keep in mind the political environment in which the government was formed and a number of decisions were made. The 2013 budget was therefore aimed at continuing the course of fiscal adjustment by achieving sustainable primary surpluses, stabilising the Greek economy and creating conditions for returning to growth, i.e. reversal of the current course, which I would remind you has started in our country since 2008. I would also remind you that in 2009 we were at the peak of a financial derailment, which led to the question of our country's ability to borrow to cover deficits, and then the PASOK government had to make dramatic decisions to create a framework that was unprecedented for Europe, within which our country could and should avoid non-existent bankruptcy. I recall that in 2009 the deficit was 15.7% of GDP or about 36 billion on an annual basis and the debt was doubled between 2004 and 2009 and was close to 360 billion. It is also known - but I want to repeat it - that the structural deficit has fallen from 19.1% of GDP to 8.3% of GDP in 2011 and 2.6% in 2012, and from 2013 onwards there are surpluses. It should be noted that the 2/3 of this structural adjustment, that is, the distance that we covered, around 27 billion from 2009 to the end of 2014, is due to the decisions that we made by 2012, while the rest is in line with the decisions we made with the convergence after 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, with the Council's decisions of 26 and 27 October 2011, the country secured the second programme, which then enabled it to reduce the debt through the PSI, and combined with the debt rescheduling, which took place a few months later, it achieved what is again unprecedented at European level, the reduction of debt by 126 billion. At the same time, 50 billion was guaranteed for the recapitalisation of the Greek banks, which were saved at the time, returned the deposits and left us with 11 billion in the Financial Stability Fund, which we wanted to use in our plan for leaving our country from the memoranda. Sadly, however, the current government returned them because it considered it unnecessarily. This unprecedented financial adjustment that has not been made in another European country, nor in an OECD country, is certain - and we know that it has been done in very difficult and unprecedented conditions in which political costs have been borne by one side, our prolongation, the PASOK. We believe, however, that the results would be better for both the economy and society, i.e. without the enormous social impact on the level of life, on unemployment and on the economic climate, if we then had the support of other political forces that invested in the antimonetary rhetoric, which were adapted, but later and progressively when faced with the harsh reality. I am referring to the Antimony New Republic of Zappies and the incredible antimony theories of today's Memorandum, SYRIZA - ANEL co-government. Of course, it is well known that when you take restrictive measures, you have a social impact. But you are consciously doing so to avoid the worst in order to reach another time that you can implement progressive policies if your plan is implemented. If your plan doesn't work out, then things will get worse. Easy and successful recipes do not exist, nor miracles do they happen, as the present cruel reality of the third unnecessarily and unnecessarily noteworthy Memorial proves. At the level of the conclusions, therefore, the 2013 report confirms that since 2010 we have been on a reliable course of real budgets, as budget and revenue divergences are small, with individual differences in data covered by improved performances of others. This positive development, apparently, will be overturned for the 2015 budget for the reasons I mentioned and during the debate on the preliminary draft budget in the Committee on Economic Affairs, namely the political uncertainty and instability of the period from the end of 2014 to the first seven months of 2015. The 2013 Report also notes the achievement of the objectives of the Public Investment Programme for Recovery mainly from the European Union and confirms the speeding up of the procedures for disbursement of the NRP. It also reflects, for the first time, the increase in non-tax revenue due to the return of European central banks from the retention of Greek government bonds - the well-known ANFAs - in accordance with the Eurogroup Decision of 21 February 2012. However, the 2013 statement confirms, ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of the budgetary targets and even improved at the general government level, taking into account the costs of the Greek State's participation in increasing the capital of the CFSF and the repayment of outstanding debts, which marked the beginning of the period for creating primary surpluses. Unfortunately, this course is being blocked, as is apparent from the preliminary draft budget known to everyone. At the same time, 2013 was a year with a particular contribution to addressing the so-called 'double deficits', as well as achieving the primary surplus target and the current account balance recorded a surplus of 0.6% of GDP. It is worth noting, however, that as PASOK we had noted during the 2013 budget debate its burden on additional measures, which could have avoided if the implementation of the programme had not been halted by the New Democracy's insistence on an election call in May, as well as by the political purposes that led to the second elections in June. This period, in fact the five-month period of May 2012, led to the need to cover the budgetary gap presented during the period of insolvency. Let us keep this, please, ladies and gentlemen, because we must all bear in mind - and above all the people who listen to us and pay for it - what impact political obsessions and purposes have on the economy, much more, when intergovernmentalism and uncertainty are accompanied by psalmism, turmoil and political experimentation, as happened from December 2014 until July 2015. Unfortunately, everything here is paid! As a result of the PSI, a change in its composition and a reduction in the cost of servicing is reflected in the 2013 report. Since, therefore, the debate over the next period will also concern the negotiation of the debt, the improvement of the parametric data of the debt achieved, which in circumstances of real present value would be about 60% of GDP, as it is estimated by international houses, will allow for further improvement of its parametric elements, in accordance with the Council's decision in November 2012, which has been partly reiterated - in other words - by the agreement on 12-7-2015, provided, of course, that we are going to overcome - the return of the experiments of the previous seven months, which has had a negative effect on all the sizes of the Greek economy. In conclusion, therefore, we should look at the 2013 budget report as a station in this difficult course of the country, which continued to improve in 2014. And if it hadn't happened to overthrow the attempt to decapitate the Memorandums and the IMF, as we planned and promoted with our country's accession to the Credit Prevention Line and exit the markets, we would today be at a much better place without the need for the third Memorandum and the burdensome measures it contains. With regard to the Court of Auditors' observations on a number of issues, I think that special attention should be paid to the head of the Ministry of Finance. We, with these comments, will vote for the 2013 report. I am, of course, waiting to hear what Mr Tsakalots would say, who, as Minister of Finance, is obliged to vote on the 2013 budget report, which he predicted would not be implemented. As a point of view, I have to put forward my thoughts, as, in monitoring macroeconomic data as reflected in the draft budget reports, mainly from the time of the crisis up to now, there has been a question which does not seem to have been answered, nor is it responded to from the perspective of the new programme of the third memorandum of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I am thinking of the very high levels of unemployment whose growth rates have been suspended in the period 2014, beginning in 2015. They are, however, growing in line with forecasts for 2016. This major issue for our society, the economy and the socio-security system obliges us to answer the crucial question of the amount of investment needed to create at least fifty thousand jobs annually, as well as how to attract these investments. The question, in addition to the individual proposals on job creation which each party - as we have said - has not yet answered. This answer, ladies and gentlemen, needs political preconditions, which are not today because the government's course does not only shape them in the day-to-day exercise of power, but it seems not to be at least concerned at the moment. I am referring to the necessary political consultation and social consensus for a long-term productive reconstruction plan that goes beyond the terms of the third memorandum. The answer to all of this by the government is on the cognitive level, "You have destroyed the place and you do not have the right to speak", systematically making it clear that the financial data of January 2015, when they became government, with primary surpluses and development, gave them the opportunity, together with our wishes - I would remind you - here in the programming statements, for a rapid and effective negotiation. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. But they sacrificed the labors of our people to achieve these results in the election and post-election rhetoric, "I'm cutting the memorials". At the theoretical level now, as we have heard from Mr Juliarakis in the Committee on Economic Affairs, a political massage is being attempted, particularly to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which is called on to vote on the anti-grass-and-appropriate measures in the third memorandum. This rhetoric says, "We do not have pre-cyclical material measures like you and the reduction of the target of primary surpluses is a negotiating success of the government that gives the Greek economy another air." These, ladies and gentlemen, memorial psalmies are being dismantled by the fact that fiscal measures - taxes and cuts of 6.4 billion for the period 2015-2016 - have a material impact on the economy and are burdening the weak if one thinks that 2.2 billion is from the VAT that the people will pay for consumer spending. The reduction of the primary surpluses is the cost: Eleven billion from the GDP reduction, the money to recapitalise the banks due to the capital controls due to the new political plan, as was noted in the preliminary report of the 2016 draft budget submitted by the co-government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the message emanating from the development of political and economic data also contradicts the new, adapted memoranda hopes of the SYRIZA - ANEL twin. This hope is being sought in a new, completely different political field for which we are obliged to work and work systematically. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u75	The party's special speaker, Potami, Mr Theocharis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, a listed company is obliged to close the financial statements at the end of the year and approve them within a quarter. This is how the company's financial and financial situation is monitored and the credits or responsibilities are attributed accordingly, while decisions are made on the company's progress. If we look at ourselves as the general meeting of a large company - and for the purposes of the balance sheet, that is what we should do - we are now being called upon to approve the financial statements for a period that was different from the board of directors and another corporate policy. I liked it in committee as if we were watching color movies and suddenly getting into the movies and seeing a black and white. We see the current government contradicting the balance sheet and opposition to applauding it. It's perhaps a pleasant break! What does the whole process show? That once again the Greek state is moving so late that the procedures almost lose their meaning, because our actions have long been overcome by reality itself. And I ask all its colleagues at the time of the anti-population and now the Coupling, Balance sheet and balance sheet of 2013 had been submitted to the House since October 2014. Why are we talking about this today, thirteen months later? I forgot! We were elected by the President of the Republic, after elections, after creative ambiguity, negotiation without end and referendum, bank closure and again elections. How time for the less important? We have already heard the Minister take less important view of his presence in the House than that. Let it be! It is never too late to learn lessons from the deeds and omissions of the past, but it is enough, of course, not only to see the figures and then to forget and move on to the next, but to correct the bad texts and to repeat the positive ones. In 2013, therefore, from a budgetary point of view, even the most cautious judge can only describe it as ‘bad.’ As a first lesson for the future, however, I would like to refer to the tax revenues of that year, where a great and honest effort has been made and through systematic work a number of objectives have been achieved. Not all people, however, and I'd say maybe most of them. So in relation to the 2013 budget, income tax revenues were at 107.9% of which legal income taxes were at 168% compared to the budget, while the EMCDDA received almost 100% of the budget. The collection of direct taxes is in line with the profitability of the input mechanisms. Convergence of objectives and results for the first time in recent years, as the Court of Auditors points out, demonstrates the improvement in the functioning of the mechanism. There are, of course, a number of failures, with the delay in indirect targets being at 4%, but this is more about market and consumption generally. And there, maybe, we should do more. Where are we, today, two years later and then that effort took place? According to the Final Execution Bulletin of the State Budget, net revenues are less than two billion, compared with the target of nine minimums. In other words, we have a decline of 5.6% compared to the corresponding estimate, as reflected in the draft budget for 2016, which has already been updated downwards. Otherwise, we would be in more than four billion delays.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u77	Five.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u78	The Bureau of the Parliament's Budget finds a delay of 0.33 billion or 1.1% on the tax revenue side, most of which is due to a lack of income tax on natural persons. Revenue from indirect taxes respectively. Instead of going ahead, keeping the positive we see in 2013 and correcting any omissions - which exist in 2013 - we are every year and better or, in this case, every year better and better. We must change our direction as a matter of urgency! And let the government not tell us again that this delay was due to the negotiation of the successive elections. You are also responsible for the type of negotiation and its results and for the challenge of all elections. Moreover, the aim of the public administration is to operate independently of the political cycle, the state machine to do its job without being affected by elections and political purposes. But you do exactly that. You used the mechanisms and the institutions as a weapon in the political game. I hope you can collect these goals by the end of the year, or they will come for the world hard days. This is what you believe, moreover, that the public administration should serve political purposes not well-intentioned but badly. We see it everywhere: ELPE, supervised bodies, hospitals, etc. I complained again yesterday about the party occupation, after you were appointed to "ELLENIC S.A.", a subsidiary of TIEDD, a former wife and partner in a technical office of the CEO of TIED. These things must not be done. It's not supposed to happen! Stop it! We have biographically rich in people who are unemployed. Take advantage of society. Open up. You won't lose and our country won't lose. Second lesson about the future: the Court of Auditors, as the competent institution, has repeatedly formulated a number of reservations, which are repeated from year to year. And if we believe the saying is correct, "The double sins not a man wise," what does the repetition of the same mistakes and omissions for many years mean for the wisdom of the Greek state? The n.e.c. 115 stipulates how the financial statements of the Greek State are to be drawn up. It is a 2011 text. Today, we close in 2015 and still has not been drawn up. From 2011 to 2015! We do not know what and why it belongs to us, how honoured the main if the prices at which we sell assets are the right ones. In other words, we do not know the real property of the Greek people, so we leave space for the sale of assets for a lentil plate, or for voices that speak of a sale of public property without any element, so only for popular consumption and therefore, essentially, covering up the real scandals. Because when you call "liver", "liver", "liver" each time without proving anything, when the wolf comes, we know what will happen or what happens. What else does the Court of Auditors point to us? He points out that over time the accumulation of overdue debts is repeated mainly by health operators, which are covered at the expense of the state budget, without however addressing the causes of their creation over time. And what's the result? The ‘August’ must be within the limits of its operation. He points out that the efficiency of the State's input mechanisms needs to be improved, that the fines and surcharges regime needs to be redefined, so that they correspond to the reality. It points out that the insecure requirements must be identified and reflected on the basis of the possibility of default and be distinguished from collectable and unacceptable recovery. He points out that the general government bodies need to be more closely monitored so that the state budget is not charged with covering them. Here's some of your equivalents, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict. Only they're equivalent to wanting a job! Field of glory for you to come sometime - I hope not in two years' time - to make the statement of your own budget implementation, to reduce the observations of the Court of Auditors and to see all the positive results of your administration. Until then, of course, you will allow us to doubt it. And we'll doubt why the signs around us won't allow us to be optimistic. It is written by the Parliamentary Budget Office, and we read it in the European Commission's Financial Provisions Bulletin. Greece in 2015 returned to uncertainty and the signs of lean growth disappeared. Mr. Reggling told us yesterday. For 2015 we expect a recession of 1.4%, in 2016 further recession of 1.3% and only in 2017 return to recovery of 2.7% if all structural changes are implemented. What can change the image for the better? The normalisation of the government’s dues to the market and the full absorption of European funds. Not to jeopardise the OAS funds, of which, as we read today, the money is over. What can worsen the image? The failure to recapitalisation the banks and the failure to implement the agreed ones. And while today you should have shut down the first prerequisites and moved towards disbursement of the dose and rapid recapitalisation, you are still supposed to discuss red loans. With what script? What suggestions? There are suggestions. We keep telling you. We are clear: Don't think about jeopardising the recapitalisation of banks and the deposits of Greek citizens. Do not think of auctioning first home without the consent of the borrower. Anyone who cannot give his dose, according to the analysis of reasonable expenditure, who, that is, reasonable expenditure is equivalent to his income, so he does not have to pay for it, should be protected. Whoever has the surplus of something should give it for the loan, the remaining amount should be frozen, to be gradually given it as long as it is regular and consistent in its instalments. Not random income and assets numbers. Give other options than those that I have given, according to what has appeared in publicity and the proposals of the Bank of Greece, to anyone who prefers one of the other options that have been written. And they can enter the borrowers' basket of choices. But give it a real solution. These, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are your sole responsibility to implement or avoid them. Everyone told you, from the most well-deserved ally to the most vigilant opponent. You have no excuses. On the "first time left" you destroyed the cowardly signs that the labors of the Greek people had begun to bear fruit. You destroyed the Thessaloniki program together. On the "second time on the left", along with the parallel program, would you destroy what you have brought us and promised? Ladies and gentlemen, you have taken the electric table of Greece and downloaded one of the insurance. Down with public IEK, they're closed. Down with special treatment preschools. It's a huge problem. Lower the OAED benefits. I read it's over. Lower the “Annunciation” and the hospitals. I read that the "Evangelism" is limited to material and personal. Down with the homes of people who don't have to pay. Under the rights of retired people. Downside farmers - I saw them in the province - who are invisible to you. Downstairs who don't see how to open up jobs. Downside workers who live in constant insecurity. Where's the raise you promised? The fact that we vote 'yes' in the balance sheet and balance sheet does not mean that we do not see and monitor your failure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-seven students and students and two teachers from the 25th Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I will agree with Mr Theocharis. I do not understand why, after two years, we need to make a balance sheet, which has been closed in 2013. I think we all need to make a suggestion, sign it and close the first quarter of next year to have new elements both politically and financially. From there on, we have to vote. Of course we are voting for the closure of this budget. I will be extremely brief with two - three small observations. The Vice-Presidents spoke about the successful recapitalisation of banks at the time. There are the minutes of the House for my question to Mr Varoufakis about the 10-11 billion we returned to the EFSF - we had to turn them, it was not our choice - the end of February. And I want to say here that there was a recapitalisation of two banks - I will not mention their names - in cash from the available and not from the bonds we had from the EFSF for this purpose by the previous government. Is that a political question? Is this a personal question of a citizen I made at the time? I'm off as a congressman. Who will deal with the responsibility of the Financial Stability Fund and the director at that time, Mrs Sakellariou, with the responsibilities of the then Ministry of Finance and provide us with an adequate explanation why she took cash of 2,285 billion from the fund and did not use part of the bonds we had for the recapitalisation? What purpose has the use of cash served? There was a little technical justification, which didn't cover me. Justification was that from the bond, which is a debt issued by EFSF for recapitalisation, we have a coupon and we earn money. So they're giving us their debt to recapitalise the banks and we're earning some money from this bond, and at the same time they're charging us interest on it, which is illegal, but it's another conversation. So to avoid losing the bond income, we used the cash. Personally, as an economist - and because I have done this for several years ago - I find it unacceptable to use the cash and not to use the bonds you already had, because then you wouldn't have to return them back. A second issue that emerged in those years was - as Mr Stagioras said - that no money was paid back. There was an increase in unemployment and business closure together with an unacceptable tax system, which was chasing anyone. And to remind us that we're not allowed to put the raisin on PPC's account. It is very clear to suggest that a significant member of the Greek Parliament should be present. After a year it was forced - to call it politely - to pass the property tax at the time and to be collected from PPC's account. As a result, we also had to live the bracelets, i.e. people dying from the use of toxic substances to warm up in their homes, because they had been cut off from the power, because the unrealistic state which, in an illegal and abusive manner, passed a collector on to a public good forced someone not to have power and those winters beyond environmental pollution, we also experienced deaths. We must say here that when we come today to criticise this government for what it does, we will accept every criticism, I would say, in the implementation of the budget - we have already read the draft - in one year or two years from now. I wouldn't want to check in in two years. I would like us to check, when the tax year is closed, that is at the end of 2016, when the budget that we have introduced now is to be closed. The first quarter of 2017 shall be the 2016 balance sheet up to April 2017. That is why I recommend, and that is why it is important that we in the government and in the whole of the Communism, which should have fresh evidence, both politically and accounting, from the General Accounting Office of the State, from the DPRK, from the Ministry of Finance, from the Department of Income and from all the co-legislative ministries and ministries, so that we can all sit together and see what went wrong politically and accountingly. And the accounting, of course, has a direct impact - if you like - on the well-being of the citizens. This state has too many problems. We came in and followed the line of the memorial politicians, because otherwise we should or should go to the Mint to print drachmas or get out. There was no other solution - as I explained yesterday to the committee - than finding the 54 billion for the Memorandum debts and liabilities of the three-year period, which were PASOK and the New Democracy. We had to find funding for immediate needs. We had to sit calmly in the government along with the opposition to find creative proposals on whether there would be a strategic reorganisation plan for the state. [[At this point the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] The state is not - if you want - a mechanism that works automatically. We should all control each other. And here we are - and I think they are all the ministers and we who are running - open to control. To come up with a proposal on how the industry can function in Greece. There's no parallel program, there's a parallel thought. There is no parallel universe, there are parallel proposals. Proposals must be made to check the cost of the Greek system, the Greek economy, together with the banking system, the new entrepreneurship, together with the NSRF and the financial instrument that Greece has, what the government itself can understand and bring. But at the same time, the opposition must bring forward proposals and sit down to discuss them, press - if you like - the government. Research and innovation. What can we say in the last five years and in our eight months for research and innovation? Nothing. Is there a state, a country that doesn't invest in research and innovation? And that's not something we call philologically. I would remind you that two weeks ago in another introduction I said here about the law of the Irish Parliament - I read it yesterday - of the Irish Ministry of Finance, which reduces the tax from 12% to 6.5% for the management of patents in Ireland. Can I get you to read him? It's two hundred pages. It's not everyone's business. But the Irish did. Noonan brought it. And he says, "Get the patents and innovations here to manage them and I specialize you, a special law with half a tax." Greece - question of a Member who governs, but also of every citizen - why can't he? Why should minds go to Ireland with the management of patents and innovation? And we know that that is the 'MICROSOT' and 'GOOGLE' for the tax and not just the scheme. It's not just the question of competitiveness in theory. Competitiveness - as I have explained many times - has twelve pillars. One of the twelve pillars is research and innovation, which, unfortunately, is done in Greece within the universities and has no connection with the real economy. Here's proposals. Parliament must set up control mechanisms, go to universities and dismantle them. That's my opinion. To dismantle the system. You can't do a study as a professor and keep it for yourself and give it to the private sector and get a cut. The State must strategically link technology with productivity. To study the student, who takes the master, the doctorate, apply to everyday life and trade, to be legally paid by an industry, to take the rights and all revenues, and the materials and intangibles, to stay in the Greek economy. Here, you don't connect the university to the industry, because you think the industry is bad or something hostile or something weird that makes money. Yeah, if the industry can't make money to give jobs, how can we solve the insurance and how much more of the Greek economy's revenue and unemployment? Labour environment, company law. What do we get? I'm a little distracted, because we're talking about investments, we're closing a balance sheet. We, however, have made a recommendation to the budget, which, as I said, we would like to see checked in a year and 15 months from now. What is the corporate responsibility? What's the new bankruptcy law? What do we say to the new investor who's coming? When will the pending cases be closed in the prosecutor's office? When will the hundreds of thousands of escapades be closed? When are we going to get staff to carry out preventive control of VAT, as I said to Mrs Valavani, who we couldn't have done last year, why didn't I know that? He said we'd get them in October. But, I'm saying, it's going to be summer. When are we going to make a preventive check in winter for next summer? But that's the law! Hey, let's change him! We could not get employees from the AACC to make preventive checks on VAT in the summer, which is the season that we want to see revenue. Speed of justice. It's the alpha and the omega. Consensual ministries a lot. The Ministry of Justice is responsible. A solution should be found. All I say one - one creates huge indirect costs in the Greek economy, which is unbelievable and because it is intact and is not recorded in balance sheets, is not measured. If anyone is costing the intangible costs of delaying the administration of justice, he will understand that something is going very wrong for the Greek economy, because no one is investing. Because - he tells you - in ten years, on average, my case will be dealt with. Why would I invest? And why anyone can and has the right to resort to any administrative or civil court for a decision that will not finalise soon will be pending. The shareholders of all companies cannot be unsuccessful to their presidents. There can't be any legality because the company can't work. There are corporate responsibilities. People in serious companies go to jail or not in jail. But it has to be over. A decision has to be made. In order to correct, in addition to the numbers that we have to control, the state must correct all its structures. The public interest is very important, but the cost of complying with some international practices is very small. We call on the Step of the Parliament and the universities to change the way of thinking, to provide thesis of doctoral and masters on objects that could help both the Greek administration and the Greek Ministries, per Ministry. Why shouldn't there be one or two or three or five or more dissertations in the health system? The heads of the Greeks, the brains, are one of the best in the world. Why don't we use them? Are we ashamed that they're better than us? But in every administration, at least in my generation, we always wanted better than we wanted to run a company, not equal, and never lower, because the best will take you forward and pull you out. As a Parliament and as a public institution, university education is well suited to the future of the Greek State. We don't know everything. We're not all-conscious. The past shows that we've made a lot of mistakes. We should not continue with the same mistakes. Because if we continue the same mistakes, thinking that we know everything and keep the magic wand, we hit it and the gin and politically save us for six months, for a year, in a year and a half, we're back in a negative fund, we have to politically manage it as a government, the opposition sitting across the street saying "you didn't catch the numbers" or "you didn't do good administration" and it's the one that's the fault of the other. But the numbers are going back in the years and the homeland goes back and the strategy is back, which we should have as a country. In conclusion, I tell you the six biggest obstacles, in hierarchy of the worst and most important as the least important - the six, because they are more - that prevent foreign investment in Greece. The first is the installation, licensing of undertakings and activities. That's a huge amount of bureaucracy. Financial access to finance services. That is also the phenomenon of the last five years. Taxation, levies and other charges. Award of justice, development incentives and public procurement. These are the problems that investors see with priority. It's not anyone's fault for me. Can we now do something to solve these problems, bring investments, let us all check to get the economy ahead, so that in a year and a half we don't have the debate to vote for the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks budget and say what you did and what you didn't do? Let's do something right together, let's check on each other, and bring forward proposals to check and do them all together, so we can go back home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Kammenos. We move on to the speakers after the special speakers. Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, without wishing to interrupt my colleague, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u83	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u84	I asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative because of the absence of our special speaker. He had a coma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u85	Because I didn't have that in mind, Mr. Carras, I gave the floor. You can ask me to give you the floor immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u86	I will wait for my colleague, Mr President. I told Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u87	Okay, then. Come on, my colleague, it's okay, now you're up. Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the ratification of the 2013 budget statement and balance sheet, and now we are all being called on by different roles to discuss its implementation. Although the budget has been designed by another government, we have to conclude that always from the economic figures existing in such a text, such as the budget, we have the opportunity to have a debate and to draw the relevant conclusions. I would like to point out some of the elements of the project which are the most important, in my opinion. They also referred to the committee's hearing, but we should stand by certain figures to show that the wrong recipes lead to the wrong results. You said, therefore, that net revenue received is below 1,14% and represents 29.9% of GDP instead of the target of 26.9%. In fact, a primary deficit of 5.5 billion or 3.05% of GDP was recorded in the 2013 report, when the primary deficit target was EUR 2.3 billion and which, with the outstanding debts, increased by around EUR 7 billion compared to 2012. Revenue shortened by the target was mainly tax revenues and revenues. It is clear, therefore, that in a society plunged by the restrictive policies of austerity followed, they could not yield any more. At the same time, it is clear that there is a need to strengthen the state's control and revenue mechanisms. Another important point in the balance sheet is credit income, i.e. government borrowing, which differs from that of the State budget by 15.78%. It is worth seeing at this point the threshold for extradition, which the New Democracy Government at the time had exceeded 3 billion, which in the next government the partners refused, allowing the country to serve its internal and external obligations by the same means. With regard to budget expenditure forecasts, together with actual expenditure, they differ from forecasts by 12.5 billion and 10.31%. I would also like to dwell on the quite important part of the most important aspect, namely the public debt. It is therefore noted that there is a significant discrepancy between the forecast and the balance on 31-12-2013 in the 2013 budget, which was budgeted at EUR 352,320 million and the balance on the balance sheet, which amounted to EUR 321,478 million. The comparison, therefore, of the long-term development of central government debt in relation to GDP is increasing with the exception of 2012, and this is due to haircuts, the PSI, reaching 129.01% in 2009 at 176.25% in 2013. And all of this after two programmes with fundamental recyclable measures, with horizontal expenditure cuts that have reached the country's economy on the opposite side of what is called, gentlemen, counterpopulation, a return to growth. Finally, I would like to refer to three main points from the Court of Auditors, which have also been raised by other speakers, but I think it is my duty to mention it, which are also mentioned in the report, as they are a sign of the failure to comply with the legal provisions and, at the same time, demonstrate the lack, by the previous governments, of the State's finances. The first point concerns the non-existence of a Register of Integrations of Ice Assets of the Central Administration, with a direct consequence not showing the registration and movement of the respective accounts and the transfer of the properties of the Greek State. The second relates to the non-inclusion of the customs revenues unaccounted for in the remunerated balance of the State account, which resulted in the remaining balance pending for recovery by the competent authorities, being different from that shown in the accounts. The non-registration of these elements in the balance sheet therefore contradicts the principles of honesty and accuracy of the calculation and the corresponding provisions of the Constitution according to which all revenue and expenditure of the State must be recorded in the budget and in the accounts. The third and final remark of the Court of Auditors is the supplementary budget that had to be made in terms of overcompensation for government expenditure and amounted to about EUR 134 billion, with a deviation of EUR 12.5 billion. These differences are quite important as they have made changes in the composition of the budget and should therefore have submitted a supplementary budget, but this has not taken place. So, on the basis of the above, I would like to stress the pointlessness of the counter-population effort to show that the economy was moving towards a new start at a rate of growth that would take the country out of the deadlock by then. The shrinking of the Greek economy and, in essence, the destruction of the basis of the economy, as can be seen from the figures, is a product of the wrong recipe of the political mix that followed faithfully in recent years, but also in the years to come and the government then, managed to deepen the crisis, plunging the country's economy and productive forces into the recession. On the contrary, the current recession is both budgeted and smaller and with a milder and more realistic adjustment, which is also apparent from the lower primary surpluses found in the Greek Government's new agreement with the institutions. In addition, the current recession is the result of Greek negotiation in terms of credit suffocation due to the European Central Bank's policy and the Greek economy's non-financing by the partners since August 2014. It is now necessary to complete the recapitalisation of the banks, which solves the issue of sustainability and in turn will bring the liquidity to normalise on the market. The order is the debt settlement that, as I said, is not only sustainable, but continues to increase over the past five years in parallel with the decline of GDP, which is affecting the country's productive and social fabric. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in half a second, Mr. President. Our view of the mixture of policy which distributes the burdens of the unequal crisis is its immediate restructuring. We must protect the weaker, by laying the foundations for a turn and a change of policy in the years to come. The breaches, which are becoming more and more apparent in Europe, will also grow with the eyes on the peoples of Europe. We already see changes in Portugal. The austerity and policies of Europe's conservative circles will be brought to an end, because they simply do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Carras, you have the floor. As a parliamentary representative you are entitled under the Rules of Procedure six minutes, but due to the current tolerance...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u90	I'll try to talk for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u91	Not four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u92	Six minutes, then I won't use them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u93	The first time the Bureau has said no to someone who says they will use less time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was not my intention to speak because I see that the matter has been exhausted. However, I would like to make two or three important comments. Who are these? Reading the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, we see that it tells us that, within one year, the State and the State's balance sheet law must have been introduced - and that has some purpose. What's the point? To ensure that the budget is kept up-to-date. Of course, this is linked to the election period, which gives a margin of four years. It is therefore presupposed that the government that has voted for the budget will be the one which should also be apologised for its implementation. The state's balance sheet is not a mechanical work, and I am sorry to see this today, that is, in a mechanical way, we say our views, we go beyond it, we are done. It is a tool of work, which we all have to stand by to help with the performance of the state's finances. What is this about? I'll get an example from Corporate Law. Which public limited liability company or legal entity does not have the obligation within three months or six months, such as public limited companies, from the end of the financial year to draw up a balance sheet and publish its results, in order to obtain the broadness required? Why is that? Because it must be timely. This report, which is coming - of course - cannot make any difference and will vote for it - as my colleagues have already pointed out, after 15 and more months it has been overrun. The 2014 budget has been passed, the 2014 budget has been implemented and we are sitting here talking about 2013. So I wonder what conclusions can currently be drawn from how the 2013 budget has been implemented, whether it has been correctly or wrongly implemented and what lessons it will give to prevent any errors found in its implementation from being repeated? I think nothing. I fear that this procedure is a process of mechanics, which, of course, has a luxury from the Constitution, a luxury from the Court of Auditors' report, but I never imagine that the Court of Auditors' report will also help to implement better measures. We come today after six consecutive years of crisis - and we fear that we are entering the seventh year of recession - and we cannot deal with the situation. Why? In the House we are constantly seeing new fundamental measures, but they do not have the development dimension that is required. They say unemployment didn't grow. But how can it grow when unemployment has reached the bottom? How to raise the income of the country, GDP, when it has reached the bottom? And if the country doesn't work, an income, a GDP, it will. And not to function in the private sector, it will give some real jobs. He can't make it any better. The new budget, which will be demanded, should not only have the meaning of the State's management - because this is what we see, management is done in the end - but also in the budget and in the balance sheet, it should give a dimension of development. Who could that be? We have no proposal to say that in the next year GDP will rise by 2% or 3% or 5%. It is objectively impossible. No one can promise, no one can study it. Only theoretically may this be possible in economic schools or institutions scenarios. However, we have the requirement in the coming months to create jobs, to allow tax evasion - the one which is afflicting our country - to be dealt with. Yesterday, in the debate on the previous bill, we noticed that there was a provision which, within the meaning of the text, quantifies, I do not know the word, I said it - the cases that would be dealt with and which would have an indirect effect on many others. So is that what we are pursuing? Are we pursuing the impressions or the result? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I therefore think - and I conclude, Mr President - that the state balance sheet and the balance sheet must, as in the private sector of companies, be a tool for work, for example, so that we can go further. Unfortunately, I have read both the law and the report of the Court of Auditors, they have a huge distance among themselves, we do not see any suggestion being made as to what the Court of Auditors sees. I think, therefore, that we will necessarily come to its ratification, because it is inappropriate, we cannot do anything else, but in the future, let us be more careful. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Carras. Mr. Karaoglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill, a bill relating to the ratification of the State's accounts and balance sheet for the financial year 2013. This is a very important parliamentary procedure aimed at transparency and control of the Greek state's public finances by the Greek Parliament. After all, we must admit that during the period of budgetary transparency it strengthens Parliament's authority and credibility and its institutions in general. But let me start by putting an issue that has to do with the long delay. It is a point of procedure, but I think it is a very important issue indeed. We are talking today about the ratification of a 2013 balance sheet and balance sheet, i.e. two years later. I understand the importance and responsibility of the services of the General Accounting Office of the State for controlling these elements, but could, in my humble view, make this procedure faster, that is, within the next nine months of the end of the financial year, so that in the next three months, in any event, within one year at the latest, this procedure can be carried out. It is an issue that has always been of concern to us, and I wish the government could act in such a way as to deal with it. I now come to the bill under discussion. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that 2013 was a very important year for our country, a year in which most of the priorities were set and most of the objectives of economic policy were achieved. These objectives were, moreover, other than the stabilisation of the Greek economy, the achievement of manageable primary surpluses, the long-term sustainability of the public debt, the modulation of conditions for our country's exit to the markets, in order to meet its financial needs, i.e. to return to its normality. In other words, in 2013, ladies and gentlemen, it was a key year for the country's fiscal progress, as the country returned earlier to fiscal stability, for the sake of course the enormous sacrifices of the Greek people, at the same time achieving a primary surplus after thirty-two years. Last year we had a primary surplus in 1981 and the second, after thirty-two years, in 2013. It is characteristic that this budgetary effort has focused on implementing actions aimed at cutting expenditure and increasing public revenue. The predictions of the then government, the government of national cooperation of Anton Samaras, were the result of realistic measurements and analyses, as demonstrated by the result. The interventions, that is, were made given the circumstances and economic reality. After all, the 2013 budget was drawn up in an environment of fiscal stabilisation, since earlier and specifically in the summer of 2012, important initiatives were taken and implemented by the government to address the uncertainty, but also economic suffocation in the country, which were then - in the summer of 2012 - prevailed. The economic evidence shows that the recession in 2013 slowed significantly and was even lower than the forecasts. In other words, it finally formed at 3.2% of GDP from 7.3% in 2012, while the forecast was of 4.5%. This was an important step forward and returning our country at a positive pace for 2014, which unfortunately is not the case today, as in 2015 our homeland returned again because of the wrong moves of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in the vicious cycle of recession. Furthermore, it should be noted that the economic climate was significantly improved in 2013 with the relevant index shaping for December 2013 at 91,2 points as opposed to the 86,8 points that were in December 2012. This meant - and it means - that practically the negative climate has been reversed, that the investment and consumer environment has been strengthened and that market psychology has finally improved. Of course, we should also point out in all of this the scope of structural changes and reforms, which our country had a high position in the process of promoting reforms, according always to relevant OECD reports. This is also apparent in the implementation course of the NRP, where absorption from 46%, which was in 2012, climbed to 68% in 2013. All of these are issues which we do not say as a New Democracy, but which bear witness to the sizes and reports of bodies and agencies such as the OECD, the Court of Auditors, the European Commission, etc. It should also not escape us that a sum of 5 billion has been repaid in the year in question from public debts to the private sector, thereby strengthening liquidity in the real economy, of course, contrary to what is happening today, which unfortunately has been the case with the state's overdue debts. Ladies and gentlemen, sticking to your ideas and your obsessions, you condemned all kinds of investment, when the then government, the Antonis Samaras government, in every way, strengthened competitiveness by attracting investment and stimulating entrepreneurship by increasing their rates of Greek economy. And all of this, ladies and gentlemen, had an impact on society. They have engaged in actions and care to support our weak social fellow citizens. Adequate liquidity security for 2014 has led to the strengthening of low-income citizens through the distribution of social dividends. Unfortunately, you are still looking equally for the moment when you are hitting your barbaric tax raid on all layers of the Greek economy. This is also your so-called left philosophical policy: return to primary deficits, new taxes, new cuts in main and subsidiary pensions, return - with two words - again in recession. At the same time, the following were hired by cleaners to the Ministry of Finance, which are then transferred to the courts and prosecutors of the country, the recruitment of an army of advisers to the offices of Ministers and members of the government and a number of other provisions of this kind. When the previous government, with its interventions and actions, has stabilised the situation, it has immediately made tax concessions and support for our fellow citizens who have been in a bad economic situation, you are, unfortunately, doing the exact opposite. In an ever-increasing climate you are even more burdened with the state budget and hence the Greek taxpayer solely to serve your electoral clientele and your strong ideals. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the figures and figures - and you must all recognise it - that the 2013 balance sheet was the result of serious estimates and real analyses, creating the appropriate conditions for stabilising our national economy so that our country can return from the next year of 2014 to a positive growth rate. But, unfortunately, the situation is quite different today. The state of our economy has deteriorated with the repetitions and failures of your Government, resulting in a huge cost for the national economy and the Greek taxpayer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Karaolwa. Please, Mr Tasoula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u99	The procedure for approving accounts and balance sheets should normally be the most interesting process in the financial management of the country and not the budget. We are a country where we prefer openings to completions and prefer forecasts to verifications. Maybe that's one of his reasons why we got here. It is impressive to think that the 2013 balance sheet is actually rewarded by the preliminary draft state budget submitted by the current government in October. In 2013, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Stagiras, said, but as Mr Karaoglu, who just came down from the Step, was a critical year on which the country's exit from the crisis began to be built, with great sacrifices by the Greeks - obviously! - and it is the period during which what the current government describes in the preliminary draft budget has been built. What does he describe? ‘The financial adjustment for the period 2010-2014 has resulted in the achievement of the objectives of the Programme, namely the reduction of the deficit and the equilibrium of the primary balance of the general government and the correction of the current account.’. We had a beastly decline in the deficit from 15.2% to 3.5% and primary surpluses appeared "the current account balance - says the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in the October draft budget - recorded in 2013 and 2014 a surplus. Therefore, the main indicators of the macroeconomic imbalance of the economy, the infamous twin deficits, have improved.’ This wasn't all in the blank. They took place on the back of the Greek people and were for the sake of the efforts of a government which, after the country's de facto bankruptcy, understood its responsibilities and ignored political costs. We are presenting an interesting performance as a people, as a country, as government actors in the management of the unprecedented. Greece has been late forty years since the '21 Revolution to share national lands. There were about five million cultivable acres in Greece which were shared in 1871 by the Minister of Finance Sotiris Sotiopoulos - Plenipotentiary of Triphyria, please - who was elected MP and was elected minister at the age of thirty. And I say this to the knowledge of those who pretend that it is only today who embraces the mythology of youth. These have always existed in Greece and it is not original that the people want to give young people the opportunity to be tested. Only he used to give worthy young people, and today he gives communal young people. This approach is different. What was it that led the country to share national lands in 1871? The robbery arrived. With the massacre in Delesy, ladies and gentlemen, everyone was angry and Greece suffered a monstrous decline in its prestige and reputation, because a gang of robbers who were failing the countryside kidnapped and slaughtered foreign diplomats and foreign tourists and the state was unable to prevent it. The robbery was also the result of the non-distribution of the national land - beyond the pure instinct that dictated this behaviour - because there were unemployed and unable to engage in economic activity in the countryside. The government which emerged after the massacre in Delise took the bull from the horns, managed the unprecedented and where the national land was occupied, became a huge distribution of three million acres thanks to the legislation of 1871. The massacre of Delise is the country's de facto bankruptcy and all the defamation suffered by the country is due to the collapse not of a capitalist system, but of a system of a pelvic, familialist, which had been blurred and generously supported by all the years of the Transition. The Delise massacre was the country's de facto bankruptcy, which caused some of the political system who decided to ignore political costs. SYRIZA refuses to recognize the new data, refused to admit his mistakes, his monstrous lies, refused to collide with reality and led the country to a third memorial with only comfort that he led it by crying, while we led her to grace. Acknowledging the obvious ridiculousness of this argument, I will call on the absent Minister of Finance - if he reads the Minutes - to realise that what is happening in the country is that a large part of the political system has been adapted to reality, while SYRIZA is stubbornly and now refuses to adapt. Let us study better the 2013 report that you will be voting on. Better study the period of December 2014 which, with huge sacrifices of the Greek people and huge recognition of political costs - which you do not have the honour to admit that you do not dare do - the country had entered the threshold of exit from the crisis and adapted to reality. It's a one-way reality. Instead, today, the country which cannot breathe, the country that is in a lasting loss of procedures, functions, values is stubborn and the government's scandalous synergy with imprisoned for terrorist acts in prisons and all that you call'mythms','myths' and anything else. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2013 budget was the pretext of getting out of the crisis. If you do not understand the reality, they will be lost - they have already gone lost - many of the sacrifices of the Greeks and all the populism, the whole swan song of postpopulation that you express will turn against you in such a way that it may be unbelievable for the country. The exit from the crisis is dictated by specific obligations you have made because of demagoguery, because of your populism and obsession with beastly lies. Even now, study what you are going to approve. It contains pain, but it also contains effect. See that it is not possible for these sacrifices of the Greeks, this result to be wasted, because you do not dare to assume your responsibilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you do not take care of them, the Greek people will soon take care of them, because it is certain that as you drive things, however strange what I say, you will soon be forced to drive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor why historical truth and political morality impose it. The government majority of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks are today voting for the ruling laws of the accounting and balance sheet of the state of the financial year 2013. Imagine what would happen if today's debate were to take place under other political conditions, if the elections in January, the referendum in July, the turnover, the September elections, were still in the anti-immigration and demagogic sphere that brought SYRIZA to power. What would today be said by the defenders of the third memorandum and the rapporteurs to vote in favour of the existing laws on balance sheet and balance sheet 2013? Do you think that the government and the majority of the Parliament are voting 'in favour' for formal reasons, why is there a constitutional obligation for the majority in the House to ratify the balance sheet in the previous years? Oh, no. Your obligation is international. It is a responsibility to be credible in relation to the negotiation of the implementation and specialisation of the Tsipra - Kammenos Memorandum. You are voting in favour of financial management of 2013 and its results, because you are licking where you were spitting, because of the radical transformation, because you recognised that you were lying, irresponsibles, things nationally dangerous and joining our strategy and our policy. And while by your vote you recognize the trouble, the effort, the sweat, you still don't apologize for the lies, the slandering, the slandering, the empathy with which you watered the Greek people, limiting its ability to see the whole picture and judge justly. So you are experiencing your contradictions at huge cost to the country and the economy. I have heard the debate and read the minutes of the parliamentary committee that the government has made three arguments against the previous two programmes. The first argument is that the two previous programmes have had too strong a material impact, that the cumulative recession is obviously great and that unemployment is being launched socially unacceptable. Obviously! We don't know? Did we not say this on a daily basis in the tough negotiation that we had with the partners, with the troika, with the institutions, with Europe, with the IMF from 2010 to January 2015? Consider the results of the tough negotiation if Mr. Tsipras had done it at that time, when he negotiated in 2015 with the country at a positive rate of growth, a primary surplus, a fall of unemployment and the result of the economy. At the expense of the economy, at the expense of progress, it brought us to the detriment of the weak social groups this result of the third memorandum and, above all, caused the damage to the economy and society and the institutions and the climate. Imagine that he and his team had done the negotiation under the conditions of 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, i.e. with the threat of immediate bankruptcy. Mr Tsipras' argument is that if we were to do what we said in January, we would lead the country to total destruction, so we had to go to Memorandum 3. Is this not the case for 2010 and 2011? Did we have a chance to go to another solution? Then we could use Grexit's solution? To go where, with a primary deficit of 15.7%, without the possibility of financing salaries, pensions, hospitals, schools and Armed Forces? And with the banks unprotected and the depositors unprotected, without any support mechanism. The second argument by the government is that it has design problems in the first and second programmes. Of course it does. Haven't we located them? Have we not analysed in the negotiations the problem of multipliers and the planning problems of programmes, which the IMF has confessed to? Personally, I have explained to the Committee on Independent Internal Audit of the International Monetary Fund in detail what, in my view, are the design problems and responsibilities of the Fund and the institutions and I have said them in all the international forums. But did we have a choice to go to a rapid fiscal adjustment in four years? Did we have another way? There are perceptions that dominate, perceptions of politics, market perceptions and perceptions of lenders, when they give you this huge loan, which ultimately reaches 300 billion, with the burden caused by Mr. Tsipras. We had our own chance? Unfortunately, we didn't. But now they did not have the rulers, who said easy, great words and sell the fruits hopes. The second programme, however, provided for the intervention of the debt, which by name led to a EUR 126 billion reduction and in terms of net present value through the OSI, namely the burden, the indirect debt haircut held by the official sector, the Eurozone, the EFSF, the ESM, a total profit for the country that exceeds EUR 200 billion and is the largest in world time. Now the estimate made by companies holding Greek bonds and interested in commercial reasons to promote their view that Greece has, in terms of net present value, the lowest debt in Europe - the calculations are enough to say that in net present value it is only 18% of GDP that Greece's debt - now also published scientifically. I saw Intermarkets publish a study, I saw a study published in Harvard's Business School on this subject. The debate does not take place in the newspapers, it takes place in the scientific community. The third argument - great "success" of the Memorandum Tsipras - Kammenos - is that the primary surplus targets have been reduced. But how should the primary surplus targets be above that when the country regressed, it went back again to recession and lost the primary surplus? Would we stay on the target of a primary surplus of 4.5% of GDP? 4.5% of GDP was achieved as a target from the debt sustainability study, with a corresponding target for at least 2.5% annual growth and a debt sustainability study, which had not assessed the actual reduction in net present value and the impressive reduction in debt costs and interest paid by the country every year, i.e. this impressive historical debt reduction. Obviously, the so-called fiscal space, the vital financial space for the country to breathe would also be provided for in the preventive credit line that we would take on 28 February 2015. Because it was Eurogroup's commitment to new intervention in debt, which I hope the government will now conclude, if it asks for help and understands how it should deal with the matter. And so we would also have reached a reduction in the primary surplus target. But it is another thing to reduce the target, because you don't have to reduce it any longer, because you can't achieve it and put the country in a new memorandum for at least three more years, with tougher terms, with new taxes, with new insurance, with a new insurance policy, with the undermining of the social state. Because the government says: 'Now, apart from the smallest surplus, I also have a social protection indicator.' What do you think? How dare you? Leave the protection of the first residence to the level you found, to the level that was legally valid until October 31, 2015. But you can't. Nothing can leave at the same level either the protection of the first home or the guaranteed level, which you have destroyed, while you have found it in a pilot run. Of course, we now have, beyond the tax burden, the new insurance and, unfortunately, the financial and budgetary collapse of the EEA. Be careful what you say! From the accounts and the balance sheet you are voting on, which you have accepted and introduced, and from the draft budget you have submitted with your signatures, you recognize the size of the 2012 intervention in the public debt - because you cannot do any differently, when you sign under numbers - of course, you accept that in 2013 we had a primary surplus, in accordance with the programme criteria and a surplus, which was distributed as a social dividend. So this is the 2013 balance sheet and much better is the 2014 balance sheet, which we will discuss in the House. The issue is what you are doing in 2015, what will be the 2015 balance sheet and balance sheet, which is your year, year of retardation, slowdown, year of loss and damage to the economy, year of conversion and radical denial. Did you overcome the uncertainty you themselves produce politically? Oh, no! You keep reproducing it and recycle it. You undermine climate, entrepreneurship, investment. You risk recapitalisation involving private individuals in banks, not in favour of bankers but in favour of the economy and depositors. You are aware, of course, of the fact that the public banking portfolio is going through the new fund of 50 billion, that there is now full external control. In insurance society is constantly taking shots of fear, in tax itself. Equivalent is not there. In'red' loans you play with people's pain, while there is no real problem with housing. Banks can ensure household residence in housing loans. But there is a problem with the possibilities of borrowing small and medium-sized enterprises, because the assessment of the bank portfolio is made, as I have said, extremely difficult to finance small and medium-sized enterprises at competitive rates because of the supervisory capital they need. Of course, we are going to restructure business loans and therefore businesses in the most critical sectors of the Greek economy, such as tourism. That is the point, how this restructuring will be done and what the prospects for the economy are. Where's the model? What are you negotiating? What strategic planning for growth, for the future, for investment, for employment? Nothing! Also, there's nothing for the refugee. You have linked the economic crisis and negotiated issues of major importance to foreign policy. You do not understand what is happening on research and rescue issues in the Aegean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, please, unfortunately, time has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u103	And of course, there is the question - and I am ending, Mr President - of the country's institutional crisis, a climate of intimidation in justice, an attempt to abolish the independent authorities, complaints from Kammenos - Giannakopoulos, which deserves to be investigated, because they are unprecedented, and now the case of complaints from the former Minister Panoussis, who will come before the relevant Committee of Institutions and the Transparency of the House to present the issues which are of enormous importance. So, do you realize what's going on in this place? Do you realize where you'd be right now if that happened to other governments? Not sitting calmly but on the benches and you would shout out in the name of democracy, justice, the rule of law, transparency! Now? Are you following the dissolution of the country's institutional fabric? Without institutional tissues there is no development, there is no national reconstruction plan. It is therefore an excellent opportunity to vote in favour of the financial year 2013 statement and balance sheet. It is a vote to restore historical truth and justice. But you do without consciousness, do it like that, mechanically. You don't do it by realising the great change that has taken place. And, of course, it prevents public opinion from realising it, but despite the obstacles, public opinion will understand that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u105	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u106	Then Mr. Cassidy will speak and you, Mr. Loverdos, as you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u107	No, we have the floor, Mr President, in the order that exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u108	You didn't ask for the floor. Mr Brutsi says that the parliamentary representatives are asking for the floor and are speaking in turn. It does not foresee a series of parties. You need to ask him and take him later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u109	Then I want to talk to you after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u110	Of course, after. Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the place, society, the citizens and, in particular, the Left have paid an extremely heavy price in the past and not in the far past, in the para-state of the right. We do not believe these days in our eyes and in our ears, hearing that SYRIZA can flirt or tolerate and cover those who prove to flirt with the idea of creating a left-wing para-state. We cannot accept some who may haggle bills with convicts of ordinary criminal law or deported terrorists. Ladies and gentlemen, this is whether it is done by naivety or by ideologies or by small-scale self-interest, it is repulsive and extremely dangerous. The Prime Minister cannot remain a spectator. And, of course, the Minister for Justice has been personally exposed. Now in our bill. In the years before a crisis, the state spent much more than it received. The budgets were permanently in deficit. The country inevitably led to easy and cheap borrowing, of course by charging the next generations, while the debt was growing, without anyone really taking care of it. But 'the gods and the gods are convinced'. So the balance sheet and balance sheet that we are discussing today is certainly in a different logic, a different logic that has been imposed by realities and not by choice. The Greek state, in 2013, had a primary surplus of 1.2%, when the target was 0%. Today we are called upon to ratify it with a delay of thirteen months from the date of its deposit. This is, of course, a surreal process. The Greek Parliament seems to be working at its own pace, but isolated from the daily lives of the citizens and especially from the real economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, are you really the victims of your own success, as the Minister of Finance stated after the meeting of the crucial Eurogroup yesterday? And I wonder why with so many successes in your activity, you raise the world up for resistance tomorrow, Thursday, day of general strike? It is the dual role and the dual perception of reality. Do you realize that in your months of governance, five units of GDP have been lost, equivalent to about EUR 9 billion, as Mr Regling just said yesterday? At a time when the entire Greek society is concerned about the decisions that will be made by the institutions to provide the 2 billion in the next few days, we are still completely deceived with the balance sheet and the 2013 balance sheet. But the surrealist thing doesn't run out here. We have a government that tries to convince us about the negatives of the bill and the accounts, even though it itself recommends it, and a counterpopulation that strives for the opposite, wanting to remind us of the "golden" days of 2013. We live a battle of impressions, which is summarized in phrases that insult our intelligence and of course increase our unreliability towards society. Success story on the one hand, victims of success on the other. At the same time, the victims of this success - that is, the Greek citizens - are concerned, wondering, demand a solution to the question of the protection of first homes, which the government is stalling and inevitably unable to deal with realistically, a question that does not even now have a realistic, feasible solution. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is now time to understand that the clay is really emptying this time. You cannot continue to legislate in anything but five or even five. The Greek economy cannot withstand other experimentation, it cannot withstand other amateurisms, which only confirm ideologies. I am standing on two points in the Court of Auditors' report. The first concerns the absence of a register of fixed assets of the Greek State. We are talking about privatizations or the exploitation of the property of the Greek State, without actually knowing what this property is and how much it is valued. We are depleted in launches of poorly charged categories, for who sells public property cheaper, but we do not actually have a full understanding of how much it costs with today's data. The second point concerns the long-term accumulation of government debts. Health bodies tend to become undeclared barrels for the state budget. The reasons for this grim economic situation over time have unfortunately not been dealt with in the past, much more so in the present. The State’s control and collection mechanisms remain weak, without sufficient personnel, without planning. The 2013 Balance Sheet has beyond doubt positive elements. State revenues went better, the economy, although it remained fragile, to some extent stabilised and the country slowly but steadily turned from the recession in growth. Today, two years later, we expect a recession of 1.4% in 2015, public deficits are dramatically increasing, as are public debts. The real economy is suffocating and unemployment continues to climb up. There's no more time. That's obvious. Go ahead, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to the necessary reforms, which are a one-way path to stabilising the economy and exiting the crisis. The revolutionary crowns, accompanied by the communal impress game, are certainly not a recipe for success. On the contrary, it is a recipe for certain failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Dannelly. I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Koutsoubas and the Members of his party tabled a proposal for a law: "Measures to relieve the people's family". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty students and students and two teachers - their attendants since the 15th General High School of Athens. We welcome them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ilias Kasiriaris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u113	The 2013 budget, like those of 2014 and 2015, are memorandum budgets. They are destructive measures. They are intended to dismantle the Greek economy and de facto they are off target and failed. We have repeatedly said that the overtaxation that applies, this system of legislation which comes to Greece from foreign power centres, from the troika, written in English in a foreign language, is being imposed here in the House and voted by majority vote, but which does not express the Greek people, is the sole aim of dismantling our national economy and the destruction of Greece so that very soon the international players who impose these legislations will put the national property of our country into hand. Already, with a so-called left government, fourteen airports were sold out, which produced wealth in Greece. No state takes advantage of those enterprises that produce wealth. No state sells the OPAP, which brings money to the public. No state is selling out airports, which have huge incomes for the state funds. Therefore, all these budgets - and not just that year of which we are discussing the budget today - are national disaster budgets. They're doomed to an absolute failure. We have repeatedly said that current Prime Minister Tsipras, who was elected Prime Minister by cheating on the Greek citizen, deceiving the people with false announcements, had agreed all these measures, all this policy which is primarily destructive to the popular layers, which are brought to suicide and to slow death. So he had been taken as a contractor, and now Prime Minister Tsipras had passed a memorandum that Samaras and Venizelos were unable to pass. Merkel, Shoeble, Dieselblum, all the international loan sharks who unfortunately manage the fates of Greece today, knew that with the previous Memorandum of Understanding, with the formerly established parties, i.e. PASOK, New Democracy and their paradoxes, there was no chance that all these measures will be passed today. They knew that with Samara and Venizelos, there was no more memorial, because the people would not accept it. That's why they used Tsipras to cheat Greek citizens. They've been able to do this on a temporary basis. We see signs and monsters. We see a government that executes the Greek citizen calling tomorrow on a strike. We see a Minister - I am referring to Chakaloto - who has signed a body of anti-national and anti-popular legislation, saying 'we are the victims of our success'. He wonders about the Greek citizen listening to all this: are you crazy? Are you crazy about being tied up by the government, or do you just think that the Greek eats spoon? Do you think you're addressing hazelnuts and saying all this? You call on the citizens to strike, who yourself, by executing orders from foreign centres, have condemned them to death. These days you're playing a negotiation theatre. You are, in fact, playing a theatre, as it was for months, which was culminated in the case of the Kivian referendum, in which you betrayed the verdict of the Greek people. I am talking about a theatre because the first home auctions have been in agreement with the troika for a long time, as the third memorandum of the so-called left had been agreed. That was what Golden Dawn said before the elections on 25 January. We said that from the day he went to London School of Economics, Texas, Lake Comos, to all the international fora of foreign loan sharks, he agreed to implement the third and most disastrous memorandum in Greece. All this is being verified today. So we're not the master of the Delphi Mansion. But we know perfectly well that signatures under the table have already fallen and first home auctions have been agreed. The plan is foreign loan sharks through banks to take the homes of the poor Greeks, those who worked and had some pre-morrow incomes and who, with the measures you implemented illegally and unlike the verdict of the Greek people in the referendum today lost their incomes. But the banks are demanding that they pay off their alleged obligations. So many Greeks will lose their homes, hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens. In these homes, of course, illegal immigrants will be installed. That's the plan that's evolving. These are the commands of the unwilling European Union. These mandates, which are, of course, applied in good cooperation with the Turkish state and para-state, are implemented by the SYRIZA Government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] So we're talking about a national treason, the cover-up of which you've invented all these unexplained types, you've put Phile in front of saying these misery at the expense of Greek history, just for disorientation. Because no one in the news releases today deals with the sale of Greece, about the dismantling of the Greek economy. They're dealing with Phil, with Panoussi. Of course, we have also seen the famous 'Golden-Golden's' where, in the case of Kumucaku, you of course used to arouse us for a whole week, and you are still abusing us, and not a single party was found to condemn the incident with Mr Hadjisavva, the Member of the Golden Dawn. The channels went out. The parties celebrated this. No one was found in here to say 'I condemn the violence from wherever it comes'. But we have witnessed terrible situations. We remember very well the murders of young children of the Golden Dawn, for whom nothing has happened at all. The state authorities were indifferent. The then President of the Republic did not send a letter of condolence to the families of the deceased. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Incidentally, Toskas, the Minister of Citizen Protection, appeared on state television and had announced arrests - says - of Golden Dawn officials. He was involved in Golden Dawn, saying he is a member of the Golden Dawn, the perpetrator of that episode with MP Kumucascus of the New Democracy. Where's Toscas now? Why doesn't he apologize? He packed them. He went out and said, "No, they have ideological affinity" and something like that. Why doesn't he come out here to apologize for convicting an entire party, the third political party in the country? We are now seeing the Panousi case, where we have specific complaints from former Minister and university and it does not run a leaf against SYRIZA. When Golden Dawn had been denounced by the false witnesses "A", "B", "C" and "D" and they said some stories of scientific fiction with amnophils inside, with some mantle in Malakasa, with some tanks - he says - that we were preparing to enter the House, we were all in jail! Now that there are very specific documentaries for direct SYRIZA co-operation with terrorists who have murdered members of the Golden Dawn, no card moves, no one speaks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Golden Dawn is the only rival in this corrupt memorial system, for this reason and you fight us in all these terrible ways. As far as the mudsmiths, Philly, Tosca and all of them are concerned, we'll see you in court very soon. Since they are not apologising for their lies, they will be asked to apologise and explain why they have disguised the country's third political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Cassidy. Minister, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u115	I will now speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u116	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's plenary session procedure, on the issue of restoring the State's statement and balance sheet for the financial year 2013, offers a valuable opportunity to draw conclusions - I would say - to learn lessons from experience, failures, errors and possible successes in recent years. I will try to do so, using the main macroeconomic sizes of 2012-2014 with a centre obviously in 2013, which concerns us and which is the subject of the debate. Before I begin, I would like to agree with Mr Karaoglu that the time delay in the debate is a long one. The General Accounting Office has for some time been trying to upgrade the public accounting system of the country. This effort is intensified. I hope that very soon we will be able to make the ratification, close - if you like - the books of the financial years much faster than we have done so far. So let me return to the lesson - I would say - economic history given to us by the three years 2012-2014 and the conclusions that one can draw from this three-year period. In 2012, it finds the Greek economy in conditions of deep, protracted economic downturn. The growth rate for 2012, with the OECD figures - and I use the OECD figures, because they allow us to compare by 2014 - is -6.6%, at constant prices. The recession, that is, the depth of the recession for 2012 is -6.6%. More specifically, domestic demand, i.e. household consumption expenditure and investment in fixed capital of enterprises, is falling by 9.6% in 2012 - that is, even more than the overall level of recession - and unemployment is rising to around 24% -25%. Remember that in 2011, unemployment was close to 12% -13%. The productive gap, what an economist would use as a key indicator of the magnitude of the recession - if you like, the deviation of the real situation from its capacity, from what it could produce if it were not in recession - is around 11% -12%. The economy, therefore, in 2012, produces around EUR 20-22 billion less than it could produce if it were not in recession. It is obviously an unprecedented picture, not only for the post-war history of the Greek economy, Greek capitalism but also for the global economy, I would only say comparable to the United States' massive recession in 1929-1932. I think there is no doubt that the main cause of the deterioration of the economic sizes of 2012 is both the wrong planning of macroeconomic policy and the wrong estimates of the impact this design has on the real economy. I am very pleased to hear Mr Venizelos recognise that in real time - rather than retrospectively - he was aware of the wrong considerations on which the planning of economic policy was based at that time. But I wonder why it did not feed Greek arguments in the negotiation, it did not affect the development of economic policy at that time. More specifically, I would say that the downturn is due both to the size of the budgetary adjustment and - and I would stress this - to the forward character, that is, to the attempt to limit it to a very short period of time, to a budgetary procyclical policy that increases revenue and reduces expenditure in conditions of recession. Of course, as I said at the same time, it is also due to the mistaken estimates of multiplier sizes and therefore the effect that this budgetary policy would have on the real economy. In 2012, therefore, it inherits an economy in 2013 in a deep recession. What lessons does the government learn in December 2012, when it submits the budget, from the experience of 2012, from the experience of the effects of budgetary adjustment on the real economy? It doesn't draw any conclusions. In 2013 and the 2013 budget follows exactly the same policy, I would say that it intensifys the same pre-cyclical fiscal policy, in terms of circularly corrected or, if you like, of a structural primary balance. The budgetary effort paid in 2013 is of the order of 3.8% of GDP, of the order of 7-7.5 billion euros. The government, therefore, in the 2013 budget, is attempting an aggressive, forward, further pre-cyclical fiscal policy of 3.8% of GDP. What's the result? The result in 2013 is that the productive gap is deepening. Remember that the 2012 production gap was 11%-12%, in 2013, 14% of GDP is always on the basis of OECD figures, and unemployment from 24% reaches 27.5%. The growth rate of GDP at constant prices always declines further by 4%, while domestic demand by 4.5%. The recession - if you like - deepens even further. The forceful opposition claims that precisely this painful fiscal adjustment of the years 2012-2013 is the one that leads in 2014 to the economy in calm waters, to economic recovery and to the growth rate of 0.75% in 2014, is - if you like - the basis of the 2014 success story, of the so-called success story. I want to stress something I've already said twice or three times. A growth rate of 0.75% cannot be considered a success. The growth rate needed for the recovery of the Greek economy from the recession must be greater than the one the economists say "long-term economic growth" and for Greece it is around 2% to 2.2%. A rate of 0.75% is hopelessly low, basically locking the economy in a long-term recession. So the rate of 0.75% is not a success. Nevertheless, I will accept that this is a positive pace, when the three previous years, I would say in the four previous years since 2009, the Greek economy has experienced a series of twenty-six quarters of recession. However, let's look again at the 2014 budget figures, to see where this anemic rate of economic growth is due, the success of the opposition officer's success. Remember. In 2013, again in terms of structural primary balance, the primary surplus was 6.5%, while in 2014 it closed with a primary surplus of 4.5%. So, what's going on between 2013 and 2014? Watch this because it is of special importance. Between 2013 and 2014, the previous government, the current Census, does the opposite of what it did last year, essentially follows a loose fiscal policy of 2% of GDP. Why is the exact return in 2014? What, if you want, is the government's success story in 2014? It is due to the 2015 elections. The New Democracy Government, with the support of the PASOK, has done nothing but what it has done for so many years, over the past three decades since 1981. It follows a typical political electoral cycle, tightens the strips with a deadly pre-cyclical fiscal policy, when it can or when it is forced but relaxes when it wants to collect votes before the elections. That's the success story of today's C.O.P.D.! What lessons does the current government learn from the experience of 2013 and 2014? The main conclusions are four: Firstly, there is no doubt that future economic history books will be mentioned in detail in the fact that the forward pre-cyclical fiscal policy with the aggression that has been followed in Greece leads to a basis rather than to an exit from the recession. The second major lesson - the conclusion, if you wish - which the current government has taken advantage of - is that, even when fiscal policy is compulsory, we are not hiding enough of the measures that we have had to take in August and now, they have mild material effects - it will certainly have to be compensated for by the corresponding extension measures. And our program, our August agreement incorporates such measures, incorporates the forward disbursement of outstanding debts to the real economy, incorporates the renegotiation of debts for the creation of a financial space in 2016 and 2017 and beyond, in order to compensate for the mild consequences, I would say, of the policy we are obliged to pursue. The third great lesson is, when the economy is in recession, you protect first of all the weak. If you want, you move on to redistribution of income to heal the consequences of the recession on those who raise most weight. This is exactly what we did in 2015, not by giving the tip of the "social dividend" that the previous government gave in 2014 but by creating new structures, measures to address the humanitarian crisis, by redistributing resources in favour of these measures and, as will be reflected in the 2016 budget, by further processing these new measures. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, please give me a minute. I would like to focus on a point that Mr Venizelos mentioned, which I think is worth commenting on. The key, if you like, of the success of the new programme is precisely the lowest financial primary balance targets the Left Government has achieved in negotiating. I would remind you that the target for 2015 is 0.25% of GDP, for 2016 it is 0.5%, for 2017 it is 1.75% and goes up in 2018 and over 3.5%. I would like to compare these objectives. Low budgetary targets allow the government to avoid taking further measures and in the next quarter they create the area to allow the funding of the support programmes for the socially vulnerable, the income lower layers. I would therefore like to compare these objectives with the objectives of the previous programme, the objectives which, as Mr Venizelos said, have been achieved by the previous government. And to compare sizes - take note of this, please - I will compare the years following the last year of recession of the previous government - in 2014 is positive the pace of recession, if I am not mistaken, in the first two quarters of the year - to the primary balance targets that follow the last year of the left government recession.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u118	But say the measures that have been taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u119	We therefore compare the following financial objectives of the primary balance. For the current government, 0.5% of GDP. For the previous government 3% of GDP. For the current government, in 2017, 1.75% of GDP. Similarly, the second year after the recession, for the previous government 4.5% of GDP. The third year after the recession, the current government of 3.5% of GDP and the previous government 4.5% of GDP. And he goes by saying. The creation of a fiscal space of 7.25% of GDP is a great success, frees, unblocks the Greek economy from the vicious cycle of pre-cyclical fiscal policy and along with debt restructuring, allows recovery and exit from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Juliaraki. Mr Venizelos has been speaking on personal grounds. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Juliarakis has repeatedly referred to my views, which have turned into reproach against my face and the policy that we have exercised. I would therefore like to clarify this very briefly. Says Mr. Juliarakis: "Has the previous government realised that there is a project-design problem, that multipliers are working wrongly, that it is produced over-recession?" Obviously. Did it not happen that, on 31 August 2011, we reached a dramatic break with the troika, leaving my office in the Ministry of Finance and a very tough negotiation that led us to the second programme? Because we have received a second programme with an extension of the adjustment time, with a much larger loan, with much more favourable loan conditions, with active debt intervention, with an enormous real reduction in debt. We also took the deeper recession clause, which allowed the programme to be extended automatically, if we found that the effects are material because of the design problems that the programme had with the responsibility of the partners, particularly the International Monetary Fund, which is now investigating its own problems, but you think it is the good partner who advises you in relation to the European Union. What expectation was there in connection with the program? Intervention in the real economy, competitiveness, so as to change the functioning of the real economy. Was that allowed? No, because there was the square of the indignant, because there was a complete absence of consensus, because there was mistrust, because there was the lie, because there was the demagogue, because there was the smuggling of hope. The Left Government, to which Mr Juliarakis referred, impairing the teratogenicity of ANELs, the nationalist government that has affected the institutions now at their core, what did he do? He accepts the lenders' terms in 2015 and you blame us, because through a negotiation we accepted lenders' terms in 2010, in 2011, in 2012. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] He says, "See how much smaller primary surplus targets we now have." Sure. What does that mean? It means long-term residence in the Memorandum, new hard conditions of a third memorandum, new tax measures, intervention in the insurance that actually deprives pensioners and no prospects in relation to the real economy, because the Government does not deal with this issue. It only deals with how it will deal with numbers and how it will meet the commitments it has made since the so-called tough negotiations, because it produces uncertainty because it does not have a plan because it discourages investors, because there is no climate of optimism, coalition, consensus and no security for those involved in business, entrepreneurship, employment. This is the big problem facing the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, this is not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u123	The argument is that we have smaller primary surplus targets? Of course we have, but we also have the expectation now to take the second phase of the debt reduction that we had. In other words, when we agreed on the terms of the prudential credit line, we would not have the advantages that the country is now claiming - and I hope it will - for the country to have? What's that logic?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u124	Mr. President, where's the staff? Mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u125	You come and you do the 2013 report and you don't say a word about the inconsistencies, about the conversion, about what has been said and are lies?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much. I would like to ask, when the Minister or the ministers generally refer to policies, that there is no staff. They may refer to faces, to former presidents, to former Prime Ministers. I would do the same as President-in-Office if Mr Karamanlis, Mr Samaras or any other former President were asked to speak, because when they refer personally to their policy, I am obliged to give the floor. It is not for any other reason and I am making this clear to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u128	Wait a minute? How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u129	Less than a minute. I can talk from here, I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u130	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u131	I would like to ask Mr. Venizelo. I'd like a clarification, Mr. Venizele...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u132	You're gonna open up a little staff now. Don't make such a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u133	No, it's not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u134	You're welcome. You will simply give an explanation so that the debate will not continue. You understand that. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Venizele, if I've understood correctly, you've attributed the recession of '12 and '13, i.e. - 6.6% of '12 and -4% of '13 to the square movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u136	Oh, no! Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u137	Secondly, you said that 'low primary surpluses' meant an extension of the programme and a higher debt over time. Are you in favour of higher primary surpluses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, could I have the floor for a reply?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u139	Excuse me, Mr President, just a minute. Minister, when you ask, you are automatically causing an answer and Members are protesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u140	That is what parliamentary logic demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u141	You have the floor, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u142	What I said, Mr Juliarakis, is that without having a political and social climate, without a consensus, without a coexistence, without faith in a national purpose, you cannot go forward with such an ambitious and painful programme. Because when they impose a country - such as Greece - and a rapid and deep fiscal adjustment and extremely ambitious structural changes, you do not have society with you in structural changes, because society hurts because of the burdens of fiscal adjustment. And that is what I hope the government now, which is not the left-wing government but is the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, will understand, because it will be very useful to her. And as to whether I want primary high surpluses, I told you that we had raised the issue of reducing the target. Where did this target come from? 4.5% how did it come about? It came from a debt sustainability study, which was technically necessary at the beginning of 2012, so that we could get the debt cut and the new programme. This sustainability study would not remain as a gospel, because debt haircuts and haircuts at service costs were far greater than what the debt sustainability study itself had taken as a case of work. If Mr Tsipras negotiated seventeen hours, because I have negotiated countless days and hours and I know in depth the context of this negotiation, I tell you to realize it, and you who had formed a very positive profile, because you did not speak, like Mr Tsakalotos, because he was behind Mr Varoufakis. But now that you have come out - and rightly - on the front line of fire, I see that you are saying political arguments which will allow me to say that they are politically unfounded and, above all, are unequivocal in relation to what the country has taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u143	Thank you. Mr Brutsis has the floor as a parliamentary representative for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of the 2013 balance sheet and the 2013 statement. I think that the historian of the future will record it as the monument of the restoration of the political and economic truth of the time we are discussing today, in the sense that, for the first time not only is the period and its budget in most of its objectives, but something else is confirmed, that two parliamentary groups, that of the New Democracy and of the PASOK at that time, ignoring political costs, with political courage and political courage, fought in this Chamber in an unequal battle. It was a battle, because against them they had the populism, the demagogy from the then SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which was about to tear the memorial to pieces, and the ANELs. We fought and gave this unequal battle and we did it. We have restored budgetary targets and in 2013 it is certain, Mr Juliarakis, Minister, that the history of the future - as much as you are trying personally to falsify history - because the figures are vague, it will be described as a year of housekeeping and it will give credit to politicians who at the time gave the battle for their homeland. But I would recommend as I succeed Mr. Juliarakis in the Step three things. Firstly, I do not know what the future will be, but I recommend that it be prepared very much, if next year it will be called to justify the budget and implementation targets of 2015. There we will have a great deal to say, Mr Juliarakis, for 2015, because you should justify how the Greek economy and how the sacrifices of the Greeks were lost when we had budgetaryly balanced things. You must say too much and prepare yourself properly. Secondly, I, too, amazes me negatively, in the sense that I had you for a more modest man you would tell the truth as a technocrat. We need the calm voices today in the public debate. And you, this 2013 truth restoration monument, you come to falsify it with inventions. So I would tell you to prepare yourself, because things are not going well for the country. The financial derailment we are in today will have immediate consequences. One more thing. Stop the dyes. I heard you just now, on the extension of what Mr Tsakalots said - I do not know where he found this 'victims of success' - you another way to baptize your achievements, in the sense of the mild consistency of your systolic policy. That's what you called it. Can I tell you what you mean by the Greek people to understand what Mr. Juliarakis says? He says, therefore, that SYRIZA and ANEL do not need, the EUR 14.4 billion of recapitalisation that they did not need, the imposition and lifting of this benefit of VAT for islanders who did not need, in 23% in private education that they did not need, the horizontal application of 23% in VAT on most goods that they did not need, the abolition of excise duty on farmers, farmers and fishermen who did not need, the imposition of a number of other things - to end up in insurance - which did not need any other intervention at the level of what SYRIZA and Mr. There is an asymmetrical horizontal reduction in pensions, EUR 3.2 billion reduction in intervention in the insurance system, that is to say the abolition of CSR, and a sharp intervention in minimum pensions. This is the mild restrictive policy during Mr Juliarakis and during SYRIZA. I would say, therefore, that you should be more careful, and because today, as we are discussing, we are being watched by the Greek people who are now experiencing in the tone of what they will say "switchy policy" during the SYRIZA, to read better at that time, to study it more, because the achievements were not only at the level of budgetary objectives, as Mr Stagioras and Mr Venizelos said very well before the objectives, their achievement and the effort that the two parliamentary groups have made at that time. There were also interventions, structural changes and reforms uniquely in terms of building on sound bases of a missing social state. I want to list a few things - to see them from the Minutes of Parliament - for the new Members of SYRIZA. You must study them and I hope that, as a result of my speech in the House today, you will do at least half of what we have achieved. Build on our own. That's my wish. So I remind you that in November 2012 and in the beginning of 2013, we made the biggest social intervention. We built the most modern social state, voting for the minimum guaranteed income. It is what you have reluctantly refused in this House, you have voted against it, and the troika has come to force it upon you. This is the biggest social intervention in the 2016 budget. You have it as a special text and you make it a great success. In 2013, we made the big social intervention and gave family allowances for the first time in the most modern way ever. From EUR 500 million, which was the budget for many years ago, at the time of 1913 we brought it up - it was the only financial indicator that went up - to 755 million, allowing six hundred thousand weak families to take this dividend through A21, in the most modern and transparent way that ever existed. These are the crustaceans that you have just called - and I shall mention - the crumbs that you cannot give now. It was the period when we made large structural interventions in the insurance system. On 1 March 2013, we brought ARADN through legislation. You voted against it. It was the system with which we defeated the "monitor" pensions, which we flew out thirty thousand "mix" pensions. Five billion was costing the insurance system. You voted against it. And on June 1, 2013, Minister, they were presented in Greece for the first time, the elements, the radiography of the country's insurance system. With the "ELIOS" system we have learned how many pensioners are, how much pensions are involved. We know that since June 1st for every month. And today, Mr President, I am obliged to denounce the Ministry of Labour and his political leadership, which five months ago returns to darkness and the Middle Ages and does not present the elements of "HIOS", again bringing the opacity to the public life of our country, as far as the crucial issue of insurance is concerned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On March 1, 2013, we created the "ERGANI", the most innovative and innovative and advanced system for measuring wage employment at work, which you are fortunately continuing but you are degrading it, because it was the ultimate weapon against tax evasion and the ultimate weapon for diagnosing long-term and short-term job needs and you stopped it. You stopped what we had planned for the Ministry of Labour in these two very important areas. Look at the result. This Decision shall enter into force on the Undeclared work recorded 13.2%. That's how we delivered it to you. Today, with government for the first time, 25% and more undeclared work. These are your policies. We proceeded in 2013 to a unique project - and what I said at zero cost for the public - in the 'ESTIA' system. What did we do? We have recorded for the first time electronics - and it is possible for every Greek citizen to see it - the entire real estate of the insurance system. The record showed that the value is 1.4 billion euros and there is a possibility, through this system, for every Greek citizen to see it... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want some time, Mr President, with the same tolerance as you have shown previous speakers. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u145	The tolerance we have shown to the rapporteurs was 15 minutes. We told the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u146	It's starting with me, Mr. President. Don't do that. I respect your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u147	So we don't have any complaints, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u148	Give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u149	See, Mr. Brutsi? The MPs are protesting. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u150	We have highlighted the system of "ESTIA" at zero costs for the public and more are in an electronic governance register the entire real estate of the insurance funds. You left it untapped. For our insurance system, I will simply say that we have made structural changes very important. We have established the electronic monthly analytical statement on the IKA and we have done the same in the ancillary funds. The result was EUR 280 million for the IKA, only with this intervention and the crossing that took place, the cross with the banks - that is, if someone paid - and 70 million for the ancillary funds. These are structural interventions. And then, we formed in 2013 and the zero deficit clause, which was for you the ultimate demon, the incriminated concept. And I see that you are gradually joining this concept, because Mr Katrugalou's other view on the abolition of the supplementary funds will be very dynamic to all of us. Also, in 2013, we proceeded for the first time through the surplus, from the country's finances, to the payment of the social dividend. We are talking about 450m euros and Mr Juliarakis said so just before he said 'flying'. Why didn't you give them to our five-and-a-half thousand weak fellow citizens this year, Mr. Minister, and you call them "flying" instead of rewarding the effort, the fact that the 1913 report gave us the opportunity for the first time to house our country's finances? Of course, I end up with the great reform of the 'ATLAS'. It is something that is very much discussed as a pathogen of the insurance system. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, listen to this. It was done at zero cost, with the employees of the Ministry of Labour and the insurance funds. We recorded the historical life of the end of 2013 until December 2014 of all Greeks, so we have now abolished the considered booklets. Twenty-one years of historical life insurance retrogression is now electronically for each Greek. And this work, which would enable the pension to be given in a month actually without involving any lawyer or special offices, you stopped it. It is the famous reform "ATLAS".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u151	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u152	For all these reasons, I recommend that we be more careful, especially now that you make the account of the years you were across and cry out of the squares: "We'll tear the memorandum apart." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I have been actively involved in this process. And with the experience I have been collecting since the morning and from the discussions in the committee responsible and the study I have been studying, I agree with what has been heard that this is a more critical and important process than that of the budget, which partly involves targets which are not, of course, wishful thinking, but in any case are targets. This is what we are talking about, and I think that at this time of voting on the 2013 budget and the general balance sheet, this is a critical moment. Of course, Minister, there is one question. What would happen, ladies and gentlemen, if we didn't vote for it? Mr Koutsoukos put it in a debate we had previously. What does that mean politically? You, as a competent Minister, must have the answer. Our assessment is that it involves political disapproval of the past, but it does not have any legal consequences except for the consequences associated with the negotiation of the country, its relationship with the lenders, the sense or opinion that this is a serious country and its politicians, at least in terms of numbers, are conducting a fight with common statistics. Perhaps that is why you also have the responsibility to present a preliminary draft budget with the overall assumptions for the 2009 finances and later, the financial crises, that is, the truth of which, in spite of everything you have said in opposition, you have not been able to avoid. But I'll come there. This will be the main theme of my speech, but before I make three remarks, political comments. Tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, we have trade union mobilisations which are worthwhile. Calling as a ruling party, as a majority party in the world, and leaks from Maximus, that the Prime Minister would see it very well, because these are protests against lenders, who in any case do not want our good and so on, is a confession of political bankruptcy. It's a confession of political bankruptcy and a confession that you don't need the place. If you are not a government and the citizens who protest are addressing the troika, the quartet, what do we need you? To address the entire Greek political system there. It is degrading what you do without knowing that it has such a great political significance and importance. I'd say you have to avoid this and get serious. You're a government ten months now. No party with no noble additions are even what you want to fantasize. You are a party that governs the place with the ANELs. Secondly, I would like to make a political point as well. Today is the eighth day without arresting the bullies who hit Kumucaco. Eighth day! In the first few days you told us that you identified the guilty ones. They haven't been arrested on the eighth day we are today. Last Thursday, Mr Kumoucasos was relentlessly and in a very dangerous way. Thirdly and finally, Mr. Panoussi's complaints. Look, Mr. Panoussis, to be informed, is one of the two people who led the country to elections. It is one of the two who, in the previous period of the parliament, undermined the election of a consensual President of the Republic. We have no sympathy at political level, neither are we defended for him because we have some relationships with him. On the contrary, I would like to point out this past year and this year's event at the beginning of the year to tell you things of recent memory that should not be missed. However, the statements he makes - there is one verified by him - concern two Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is correct to say that this is a process that has to go to justice. That's right. It was wrong, however, when he argued that publicity is not worth managing such a matter and that SMEs are not the place where such issues arise. No, ladies and gentlemen. It's for two reasons. The first reason, this is about the need to protect a person, whatever it is. Publicity protects. And the second reason is ours. I, from the outset, said that one or two faces could not characterize a party. And I remember, colleagues of the New Democracy, your members - among them Mr Kammenos at the time - who accused Andreas Papandreou and PASOK of 17 November. It was unfair that and that story misguidedly rejected it. I am not going to say the same things now, and I dissociate myself with some of my colleagues in the New Democracy, whom I have heard in the media, from identifying SYRIZA with terrorism. That's not what I'm saying. I say, however, that when it sounds like two Members see it anyway, they don't disagree with us and they denounce us, they condemn us, we crash, but it has more to do, if we don't agree, then things are different. And we cannot in this Chamber discuss conflicting - I have no objection - but there is the thought that alpha or beta may be behind them. And since I consider it to be a snitch to think about who or who it is, I think it is honest first of all from Panoussis, to go out and tell who the MPs are talking about, and if they don't, the government, who is informed, and not to wait for the illegal leaks from the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u155	By whom is the government informed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u156	Because for the person he heard, the leak is illegal. The functioning of justice must be surrounded by extreme secrecy on such serious issues. Therefore, transparency and publicity not only protects the person, but also protects the functioning of Parliament. And in that respect, we have been here since Monday afternoon. Minister, I have read very carefully the positions of all the parties' rapporteurs, but it makes sense - with more attention to yours. You say - among many, I don't have time, I've had a special impression, but this for the lessons of the 2010-2013 crisis - that a lesson that has to take our political system and our governments is related to the need, when you make restrictive choices, to look as much as you can. And you described as an example the term of the government of Papandreou, Papademos and Samaras and as a good example the script you gave in 2015. Because you have - at least that's how I hear, I'm not an economist or I can judge you - a prestige as a scientist, don't spoil it with findings that can't stand real life. Because I was surprised not only by your own word but also by colleagues who defend the importance of the humanitarian crisis programme, as you say, I made a record of the intervention policies in the past years of the crisis and this of 2015. Are you questioning the social dividend of 2014? Before he was given, you questioned it. Are you questioning that six hundred and fifty thousand families were given a single EUR 700 to 1500? Anyone who doubts it should say it here. And it was - I say again - six hundred and fifty thousand families. Do you doubt that your feeding programme for 2015 involves a hundred forty-three thousand families and three months it is from 70 euros a month, or a total of 210 euros? Are you questioning these numbers? It's the first number I have to give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u157	It's the power...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u158	I'll get there. Wait. You doubt that in December 2014 we secured EUR 330 million for the food aid programme - and so far you have not absorbed one euro. And you're ten months government! Do we disagree with the number - for numbers I am speaking - that the homeless programme and food supplies to them and the piles of non-governmental organisations, the Church, the municipalities have received support from the 20 million that the previous government has secured in this context, the housing and reintegration programme, a thousand two hundred homeless people and a four hundred job from them? And that's all we've done and you're doing it. For 2016, what forecast have you made? 2015 is closing now. Are you questioning the programme for the thirty thousand benefiting from the minimum guaranteed income in thirteen municipalities piloted? You denounced it, but you eventually accepted it in the third memorandum with implementation in 2017 and with the parallel abolition of the NSA which is another measure and concerns other people. And finally, what my colleague said about the current, do you doubt that sixty-sixty thousand families had received electricity with a 45% reduction - about two million people involved that measure - and that in all the social structures, from the CAP to any social structure, we had a 75% discount? Are you questioning that without any customer average 12,000 families had been completely free of charge? What is the benefit of your current policy and of how many citizens, in addition to the ninety-one cases throughout Attica where Mrs Durou restored power cuts? There was no other power cut. All over Attica ninety one families. Are you questioning these? Why, Minister, have you made a different policy? You have made a policy of strengthening the poorest, with the same logic as we have moved and with very poor results. And you're advertising it. And do you think that you are doing something from what you said, but you have the responsibility of the country's macro-political, the country's central economic policy, are telling us that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u159	Complete, if you're kind, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u160	Are you telling us that economic policy was differentiated and the memorandum was designed with interventionist expansion policies in terms of strengthening the poorest? And you're talking about the solidarity card. Uh, okay, the solidarity card is the means. It is not the content of a social redistribution programme. We will obviously vote on the State's balance sheet and general balance sheet for the year 2013, but we are consistent. You have no political problem when what you have mobilized an entire people, are you coming today and voting on them? You have no problem as majority MPs? We are in line with the logic, seriousness and consistency, and what we have designed and implemented, we are voting today, as a balance sheet and balance sheet. You have no problem with yourself, don't you have a political problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u161	Please complete your thoughts, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u162	I shall conclude, Mr President. You make the same mistake because we pointed out too many Ministers and MPs in previous years that, when the Finance Ministers and the Prime Ministers spoke - apart from Vangelis Venizelos, who spoke about the need for a narrative - you were standing and confined to public finances. The Finance Ministers, however, are all about public finances, obviously, but also about the course of the economy, the real economy and the people who have been squeezing behind bureaucracy all these years. The bureaucracy has not been reduced. In fact, your days are growing. The number of signatures is increasing. And the notion you have of the guilty, quick, private economy to which you must add institutional guarantees - see bureaucracy, see corruption - is a present policy in the ten months that you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u163	Please hang up, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u164	I'm closing, Mr. President. You have to think that the House is being watched by the people of the real economy. Your speeches are being watched by these people and they want to know not only what you say or what you are aiming for public finances, but what you say about the course of the economy. You are responsible for this, and under no circumstances should that need escape you. Otherwise, it would seem absurd to hear - what was seen yesterday, ladies and gentlemen - Mr Tsakalotos, the Minister of Finance, say about 'I agree with the very minds, etc., we cannot manage our success'. I know how he said it and why he said it. But when the dialogue became unilateral for public finances and never stands anywhere in the real and private economy, then all of this is misunderstanding and you will be in a little worthy of your luck. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Christos Mandas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u166	Me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u167	Then it's you, Mr. Red. Please, Mr. Mada, keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u168	How can we keep the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u169	I will try within eight minutes, Mr President, but you understand that I will need your tolerance for a while. In a short time, the 2013 budget and balance sheet procedure will be passed in history, which is mainly about today's plenary session. However, I think it was a good thing that we were going to have a more general debate and what we were voting on when we voted on the 2013 balance sheet and the 2013 balance sheet, but also on the current reality and on topical issues that were raised in the public debate. I want to make one or two general comments at first. There is - I will use a word that I do not usually use - an anguish and an equilibrium of justice too intensely in this Chamber on various aspects of Parliament. I personally understand that and politically appreciate that, in other words, I appreciate the insistence on the various aspects of this House to insist that their policy is justified over time and results and that they be so and so on. But there is, at the same time, another one which seems a little strange to me and I will say that. There is one insistence to convince us de and well to say 'the sin!'. Hey, we're not gonna say that! We are not going to say'sincere' and'sorry', because we have a consistent anti-neoliberal direction. We are not going to do this, no matter how much they try domestic and extraterritorial, institutional and other factors to bring us into their arms and to say we are together and loved that we are with this side and go with this side. We're not gonna say it. Not only is this not going to be the case, for example, of the current reality, but also because we deeply believe that in this painful compromise we have led under the specific correlations and circumstances, we have full knowledge and awareness of exactly what is happening in social strata that we want and we will continue firmly to represent. We know what is going on, we know how painful it is for accusations that we want to represent are some aspects of the measures that we are implementing. Well, we are not, as many of us advise, going to accept their ownership in the sense that you mean it. We are not going to join this road, much more when we hurt and broke down in a very tough negotiation process. And don't tell me it was the same when from the first moment, from the first day, from the first hour, they cut the wavers, they didn't give us insensitive notes, they had us in credit suffocation every day, every hour, every moment. Don't tell me that it's the same thing and don't tell me that this fight and that effort left no footprint in Europe. See in Portugal what's going on. Look at what is happening in the wider area of the social democratic parties in Europe, what moves can be made, which can indeed be overthrown. And that's where I think we need to see with a clear eye this historic footprint left by the negotiation of the SYRIZA Government. I therefore think that this dual effort must be stopped, at least in terms of its second part. Because she's barren, don't go on with her. Because I have also heard Mr Venizelos speak about the years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, I would like to ask a rhetoric question from this Step, although Mr Venizelos is not here. So I wonder - because I read carefully and listen carefully to what he says, and with an effort to understand, etc. Does Mr Venizelos agree with the 2010 options, with our entry into the Memorandum under these circumstances, with the declaration of Kastelorizos? Really, is it okay? And because he talked about planning problems, I would ask: Planning problem was the wrong multiplier? It was so simple that he fought it in a tough negotiation, etc.Huh? Was it that simple? And since you do not read the draft budgets correctly, behind page 9 of the draft budget which says about all the achievements, as you say, because I say real results, since it says that the issues of the macroeconomic imbalance of the Greek economy and the twin deficits have improved, from below it has two - three paragraphs, which say that the size, as well as the intensity of the economic adjustment have had serious negative economic and social consequences: Loss of 25% of the real Gross National Product, unemployment unprecedented, which has increased over this period by 14.1 points, the demand that has actually eroded the dynamics of the economy. Don't you read all this? Do you read the first page? The second one, don't you study it? I would therefore like to say - and I say it to myself and to everyone - that we should be more comprehensive in our assessments. Read all the pages. As you do not read what Mr Chakalotos said. You say it again. Mr. Loverdos suggested that he read it all. So I'll read it all. What did Mr. Chakalotos say? We are a little pressed, among other things, because, as you know, the recapitalisation goes faster than we thought, and in that sense we are 'thinkings of our own success', because the banks seem to be recapitulating a little earlier, so some of the issues that we could settle later are called on to settle earlier. This was repeated on all sides of the House a dozen times. Let us, therefore, read and illustrate an opinion that the Minister for Finance has, in particular, not selectively. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me - because time really does not help this - to say one thing for 2013 and two - three comments on topicality and I will try to finish in two, three minutes, Mr President. I think that a critical size, which is why we are criticising - we are not adopting the direction - is that we are adopting it - and Mr Loverdos said so in a way - the figures, that is what we say they are real. Yeah, it's real. That's what we're voting on. We don't take the direction. And at this point I note this, which I think is very important and the Minister reiterated it: Production gap 2012 close to 11% to 12%. Production gap of 2013 close to 13%. It is therefore a repetition and one direction of the budget and economic policy - to say it this way - and 2012 and 2013, which does not lead - to a stable, as you say, exiting the economy from the crisis, because what you say from the end of 2014, and early 2015, is a hypothesis. I'm asking you to look at reality again. As a matter of fact, this is the way things would have evolved, because neither did you have closed the deal with any mail of Hardouvelis or not, but also because there were many things during the next year, which had to cover many billions, tens of billions, obligations of the Greek state - whatever Greek government. You forget about that! Fortunately, Mr. Meimarakis has not continued to say that we have charged 90 billion debts to our country. It has a little limited this, because it understands what was actually done with the new agreement, in which you did not expect that we could, even with these painful conditions, eventually end up. That was yours - to say it - anguish, that we would not manage to close a deal at the end and break down. That's where you were going, not just you but others. Well, we closed an agreement, with painful measures, but after all - with a time horizon of significant and short-term debt restructuring that you know went thirty-three years later, I mean the direct debt of 2015, close to 50 billion and at a much lower rate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. A minimal restructuring of the debt has already been achieved. What about the main? After the end of this very difficult process, we are opening up the debt issue. And we will open it in a substantial way. And we call on you, indeed, to help on this path.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u170	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to finish with this: I heard about the mobilizations. Do you have the impression, in the way I tried to analyse how we operate in this process, that there was a chance that we could tell our world or the workers or the unemployed,'sit your homes'? What can we tell them? So, is it ever possible for us to artificially say so - to hammer any social, dynamic mobilisation there is? That's where we'll be. Why does that seem strange to you? Because we're a government too? Why does it seem strange to you? Unfortunately, you can't understand it. It may take much more time to understand it. Secondly, with regard to the references to Mr Panossi's complaints: I do not advise anyone on how to say things here. I would say, however, that we should be a little more careful because he did a very serious one - in my opinion - a political slippage from Mr Panoussis. He went to the media first, being for seven months before Minister, to make public talks, classified documents, classified documents, etc., and to let him understand something about two Members. It is not, therefore, good to repeat this and reproduce this, and indeed from the Step of the House, because there has already been a reference made by Mr Paradise and Mr Toska on behalf of the Government. Things have been brought to justice. We must be very careful and all together say that it is not possible to play classified documents - from anyone, I say. It's not possible! This is not a serious matter. Unfortunately, I come and say it, while it is a man with whom - I say my own personal opinion - we have worked perfectly well, as I recall, in the narcotics bill. And yet these things are happening now. We cannot continue in this way in the public sphere.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u172	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u173	We need greater seriousness in the approach to these issues. In any case, we will fight with all our strength for an anti-neoliberal direction that may in the short term involve this difficult period, but we are determined to fight for the vast majority of society and give the battle to the end. Dreams for accelerating political developments will stay dreams. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u176	I have asked for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u177	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u178	Look, in procedural terms, I can ask him because he made two references to me as personal. But it's not personal. I don't want to circumvent the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u180	...and neither should you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u181	Don't embarrass me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u182	A parliamentary representative is Mr Mandas and a serious colleague. I just want to tell him one word-- with your permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u183	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u184	Unless we agree, colleagues, on something. There is no list of speakers who are prevented from taking the floor. The House does not vote by roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u185	It's a matter of parliamentary order, though. Don't forget the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u186	That's right. I agree with you. If you want to give us a two-minute denology, then I'll say it. I'm not urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u187	There's this as a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u188	Procedurally, there is, but it's at your discretion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u189	Yeah, there's a process. Well, let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u190	I didn't mean to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u191	Wait till Mr. Red speaks. Mr. Danielle, I'll give you the floor. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokalis, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called on to vote on the 2013 report. Before, however, I would like to make a few comments on the timeliness, which are essential and necessary in relation to the complaints made by Mr Panoussis. Listen, he's probably right. It's possible. But the way he handles the case testifies exactly the opposite. He denounces criminal offences, charges himself criminal offences. Mr. Lovedros said so. The leakage of the case-file or made by Ms. Koutzamani, the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, or by him. The Attorney's office is out of order. The phone conversations, how did he get them? Did he follow a court case so they could be lawful? These are unanswered questions. And the government is being renounced because it does not take a stand. The government is taking the right and responsible stand. He's waiting for justice's decision. That's what Mr. Panousis had to do. I repeat, he's probably right. But the way he handles the case shows exactly the opposite. And I'm closing up with Mr. Panussi's subject. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, our country, in recent years, may live the biggest crisis. During the period of intense economic hardship a government, such as the current SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, most of all takes care of the relief of sensitive social groups. Above all, he must listen to society. This government knows that thousands of our fellow citizens are facing even survival problems. The first and golden opportunity is with red loans and auctions. There is a lot of talk about this. You will allow me to say that populism is to the fullest extent. As far as the auctions are concerned, unfortunately the policies of the last governments have created this problem. I'll tell you why. It says the New Democracy and the PASOK "we protected the first residence". The way you protected it, however, created two categories of speed in society: those who paid and those who did not pay. You have implemented universal protection. We are now being accused of 'but are you not talking about universal protection'? A person who has forty thousand euros income or fifty thousand euros income and has a loan if we say to him "protect your first residence", what will he do? He won't pay. We are therefore creating a second generation of overdue debts. And that's not the government's will. The government's will is to protect the small and medium-sized order and the one who cannot objectively pay for his loans, the one who has an income of ten thousand euros, ten thousand euros, and the one who cannot pay PPC. Accuse us, if you want, of protecting the small and medium-sized ones. As far as red loans are concerned, there have been fragmentary legislative moves so far. We are called upon to do what the previous governments have not done to resolve it in the next few days. A word will characterise and provoke the legislative initiatives of the Government: 'justice'. For you have created, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of PASOK, segregation into society, information, people who pay and are consistent with those who do not pay and believe and believe and believe that they will probably also have deletion of loans. Sometimes this deletion is required. The will of this government is the legislative initiative that will be taken and unfolded in the next few days by justice. Also, the government's will is to improve the Katseli law. And I personally wish that. A second golden opportunity is for PPC. You know, cutting off the power at difficult times is the most exterminating. Today I have tabled a timely question to the Minister responsible that the cut-off of electricity is, first of all, an unconstitutional one. No country in the European Union has stopped electricity. Why does PPC stop electricity? He's cutting it off due to debt. Can't debt be collected in a different way, like a tax certificate? Maybe. Why not apply this? Recently, PPC was convicted by a court and has greatly altered the contracts. I am anxiously awaiting the Minister's reply, if new contracts apply to domestic consumers too. The breakdown of electricity is contrary to the principle of personality, because the current is a public asset. No current anyone can't make food at home - we're insulting his dignity - to sleep. According to the principle of proportionality, the cut-off of electricity is the last instrument. PPC is required, before the electricity stops, to collect the debt in other ways. There are other ways: acknowledging the tax office or a judicial pursuit. Along with all the above, however, there are the proposals from the party which supports this government, the Independent Greeks. Along with the unfavourable consequences of this crisis, for which the government will shortly take legislative initiatives, this well-considered development must finally come. After a difficult negotiation and with many mistakes, the Greek Government did sign an agreement on exit from the crisis. As Mr Alexiadis has just said, we are now implementing the prerequisites which have been voted for two hundred and twenty Members. Government initiatives will unfold - and in particular fiscal - in the coming months with a direct reallocation of tax burdens, with tax justice. You know, without investment, that growth cannot take place. Only in a stable tax environment can the investor come to Greece. So it's an agreement to get out of the crisis. I would also like to say a few words about the farmers. That government, which must and must be judged within the four-year period, must reallocate the tax burden. The main and sole employment of farmers cannot pay the same burdens, the same tax rate as those which are retired and farmers, or doctors and farmers, or civil servants and farmers. Immediately, the Farmer's Register needs to be cleared up. Already Mr Apostolos has been committed, and the relevant bill will soon be filed. It is therefore logical that the agreement that we signed and voted on and which was passed by several parties, about two hundred or twenty Members, is an agreement to exit the crisis and with the agreement that we need to have a tsunami of investments we support and vote in the 2013 report. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u193	We thank Mr Kokalis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, and the consistency of time. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Disorientation is well maintained, and of course disorientation is useful for a number of factors. The first factor is that through this process the government seeks to cover up the escalation of anti-grass policy, that is to say it is a continuation of the previous governments, that the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government continues to walk on the same road as the previous governments, regardless of any changes or changes in the pace of action. Disorientation is also useful for counter-population and not just for the Euro-mono street parties. Because through this they seek to cover up the agreement they have with government policy and with the government, both in terms of, not only of strategic choices but also of substance, because it leaves them speechless because of the logic that they have shifted and implemented the policy that they as parties in government, the New Democracy and the PASOK have shown and implemented in the previous period. And thirdly, through this process, it seeks to manipulate the people's conscience, to ease the radicalisation of the world. Of course I will not mention here that it also forms a ground for provocational actions at a time when the pursuit will be to prevent the efforts to organise the struggle of the people, namely, in an organized and vocal manner, to manifest popular discontent. Such plans, however, are clearly not going to pass and the struggle of the people will not be prevented by such actions. And of course only as a joke of the day can it be considered that SYRIZA supports strikes, that you are with the strikers tomorrow. You're across the street! And you are against the fact that the government that you support implements anti-Fraud policy and you are against it because you themselves approve and support this government policy. From this point of view, therefore, the controversy that we were following here the previous period for the bill of ratification of the State's accounts and balance sheet for the year 2013 is a stranger. It is a controversy that is far from today's people's needs, which is far from the situation in the people's households today and the need to discuss how these needs will be met, in other words how people's problems will be tackled. On the basis of the controversy that has taken place in the previous period, it is nothing but who will best serve the reproduction needs of capital in conditions of capitalist crisis, that is, how better to seek the revival of the economy, the recovery of the capitalist economy. Of course, this framework of barren and anti-linguistic controversy comes to be supplemented with the unarmed cries of the chrysalis, which are once again 'fuckles', which when their bosses draw their ears and vote in the European Parliament in the European Parliament in the six-month period, i.e. all these measures which provide for the prudential supervision of the state budgets of all the Member States of the European Union and increased supervision of countries in the memorandum. These measures, therefore, of the European semester, were voted on by the MEPs of the Golden Dawn last week. Of course, the debate that took place was about whether the government has reached conclusions. And the main conclusion, which the Deputy Minister of Finance himself stated, was that we may take mild restrictive measures, but at the same time also take expansive measures, contrary to the previous government. What kind of expansion measures? We are promoting the restructuring of the state debt, which means reducing the needs of government debt, speeding up the implementation of Community programmes and, at the same time, we want to implement a new development law. So, on the one hand, you are taking anti-grassroots fiscal adjustment measures, the burdens of crisis and management are paid by the people through tax policy, wage cuts and pensions, overturning labour relations and the insurance system, and at the same time, as a compensation for this anti-grassroots policy, you are taking measures that serve the needs of big capital. If this is not the definition of class policy, who is it? In other words, therefore, the Deputy Minister of Finance mentioned precisely the definition of class policy! What we're hitting the people, we're removing rights and conquests from the people to give the big money. And as a compensation for all this, we will try - it says - to make a redistribution for the poorest and impoverished populace layers. From this point of view, it is clear that this policy that you are confronting with the previous government and the PASOK parties of the New Democracy, or Potami, is a policy which does not respond to the needs of the people, that is to say, it does not say anything about the Tabacier. It is therefore clear that all you are concerned about is how best to serve the needs of the capitalist economy. And under this perspective you see a number of issues, such as, for example, red loans and the protection of first residence. In what respect do you see them and want to approach them? From the point of view of the resolution of the bank portfolio in a financial system recapitalisation process. This picture is not only in Greece but also in the rest of the European Union. The recent report states that banks at international level need a recapitalisation of USD 1.3 trillion! Therefore, the 14 billion of the needs of the Greek banks for the recapitalisation are dropping in the ocean of the huge wound of the international financial system. From this point of view, therefore, this debate is being held on protection - supposedly - of the first home and collective discussion is being held on how to remove even further any small interventions that were made to protect it, not on the grounds that banks should pay, with the debts of the heavily indebted people's households, in terms of housing, professional and agricultural loans to professionals, self-employed and poor farmers. So the timeliness of the JRC's proposal today is evident. We are sure that if it is discussed in this House, all the other parties will vote against it, because that is precisely why it puts the finger on the type of sunshine that an answer to the situation currently experienced by the overhead households will only be given through the brave haircut of the banks' debts and that banks should pay this process. That is why it is no coincidence that all the conflict that we have seen in the previous period has focused on the logic of managing the extremes of poverty and impoverishment. So the government accuses the political parties of Officerial Opposition and PASOK that any measures taken in the previous period were in the sense of charity, while it makes targeted interventions and forms structures to protect poverty, the poor and the impoverished. So what does the government want to say? That the debate is about crumbs, whether in one or the other case, but at the same time that we must learn to live here with poverty and impoverishment and that, as far as things are concerned, we are not going to get rid of the broadness of poverty and impoverishment that will increasingly affect more and more people's environments. That is why some measures are needed, some structures in the direction of protecting those who will be called upon to pay, of the less poor, because they will not pay the big capital. From this point of view, the main question he raises is why it is considered normal in the current conditions of 2015, not only at our country's level but also at global level, to have these poor and impoverished. What's the matter? Is the bad thing about their roots? Is it God who hates them? Why is this poverty, while productive opportunities exist, but also where science and technology have made huge leaps and has improved labour productivity so much? Why is it prefecture in today's conditions, elsewhere at a faster rate, to remove rights and conquests, to shrink and worsen the standard of living of the people's populations in all the countries of the European Union, in all the developed capitalist economies and to regard as obsolete the constant work, the reduction of working time, the increase of earnings, the improvement of the position of the people's family, to fight about whether or not PPC can cut its electricity tariffs, instead of discussing the fact that there is such a great energy adequacy in Greece, which could have covered all the people's needs and already export energy and that there is such great energy in our country of energy poverty? So that's the question. Who's to blame for that? Is it because of the inability of today's, previous governments, or is it because of something else, that he is a child of the system, of a rotten and criminal system, which, on the one hand, has the effect of creating huge wealth on the other, on the other hand, those who create wealth being devalued by the wealth created and living in poverty and impoverishment conditions, on the other hand being destroyed? So that is the main question. In these circumstances, anyone is asked to answer this question and from the class answer he gives, it seems if he wants to continue an anti-popular policy, to extend a system that gives rise to poverty and impoverishment for the people and wealth for the capitalists or not. So the state budget, as well as the balance sheet and balance sheet, are nothing but tools to implement these plans, these needs. That is why the JRC has consistently voted against the 2013 state budget and will vote against both the balance sheet and the balance sheet. The answer, of course, is not to get used to, to educate the people to learn to live with poverty and impoverishment, to learn to meet their needs with charity, but rather to discipline the people in the need for the organization of the people's struggle. So the answer must be given to the road, to the sidewalk, to the organization of strikes. Tomorrow's strike we as a JRC are aspiring to be a stage in a process of regeneration and reconstruction of the working people's movement, on the road to more overall ruptures and overthrows that will put the focus not on capitalist gain but on satisfying popular changes. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u195	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos. To follow a process, to give the floor now to Mr. Stakoura, who wants to be seconded for four minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u197	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u198	Immediately after Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Dannelly, or vice versa, we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u199	I would also like to speak for three minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u200	For two minutes too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u201	We will also give the floor to the parliamentary representatives for two minutes and close the debate. Mr. Staruras has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all let us agree on what we are discussing today. Today we are talking about the state's balance sheet and balance sheet for the financial year 2013. What does that mean? We are talking about the realization of the drafting of that budget and the reliability of implementation. So, in essence, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, you are voting for the realisation of training and the credibility of implementation, because these are proved in the documents. The government then succeeded not all, but most of the objectives it had set. That's the reality. Secondly, the position of the Minister shows that he has finally divorced from the truth. First of all, he spoke in a dismantling manner for 2013 and 2014, in fact confirming the heads of institutions that recently said that the last government has never only been negotiated, but that essentially the agreement he has brought was much worse than the one before the referendum. This position is disproved by the institutions themselves. In last Thursday's document the European Commission is referring in dibymbic words to 2014 and I will present it in the Minutes. But the Minister disproves himself and himself. In February's Eurogroup, published by Mr Varoufakis, spoke with very flattering words about 2013 and 2014, which I will present in the Minutes. The best of all? You disprove the HR itself that you're in charge. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue and gives rise to the entry of additional appropriations on the lines which bore the initial expenditure giving rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. And you continue with the text you supported: 'The fiscal position of the country has improved considerably' - and listen to the best - 'but the bases have also been set so that the progress made in the macroeconomic figures is not just cyclical' - the opposite of what you have said, that is what you have given Europe - 'but also has a significant structural character'. I'm filing all this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased You said that we did not take any lessons between the first and second memoranda and we followed the same policy. I understand, because you've been out of Greece for years. But, if you see, between first and second memorial changes were made, precisely because the design of the first Memorandum was wrong. I'll mention only three of you. Firstly, budgetary targets went back two years. All the budgetary targets, yes, on the same level, went two years later. Secondly, it changed the mixture of the financial adjustment. Up to then 70% of the adjustment was an increase in taxes and 30% reduction in expenditure. We have changed the mix, which is why the objectives have been achieved with the sacrifices of the citizens. You are now rechanging the mixture and applying the incorrect, for the private sector, a mixture of the first memorandum. Third difference, there has been a restructuring of the debt, both in terms of volume and profile. With all due respect to my dear colleague Mr Manda, who speaks very often and is very careful, but said today from the Step 'we will open the debt issue'. Because you are reading the texts, according to the Court of Auditors' report, the debt in 2011-2013 has been reduced by 46 billion. So if you first open the debt issue, how did the debt fall then? Somehow it's been reduced. How does the debt fall? Decrease height, with haircut. You got it. Improved debt structure, interest, interest. You got it. The country acquires primary surpluses, makes demilitarization, gains a positive rate of economic growth. This improves the sustainability of the debt and this is what has been done. Third point. The Minister said that in 2014 it did not go well at the end, because the previous government wanted to collect votes, so he left the input mechanisms - I guess - without controlling them. First of all, if he did this, why in February, which is budgetaryly going in 2014, did we have a collapse of revenue? In February you were the government. Secondly, if we did this, what have you done, which did all the citizens' tax obligations - and the European Commission's report says on Thursday - in 2015? Thirdly, in order to clarify the truth, which you must know, why your services have given you the note they gave to me when I was in the same position. The reality is that in the first eleven months of 2014 there was a divergence of about EUR 1 billion in relation to the objectives - that is the truth, which was overcompensated by a corresponding reduction in costs of EUR 1 billion, without any overdue debt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In December, January and February - where the months of January and February of each financial year go budgetaryly in the previous year - we had a total collapse of revenue of 2 billion, because we had the announcement of the presidential elections - presidential elections, parliamentary elections, uncertainty of negotiation - so the divergence in the 2014 budget targets is due to the divergence in revenue in the period from December 2014 to February 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u203	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u204	One point, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Deferred debts. But since you've created them, now come and pay them. You need to find money to pay for it. As the draft budget of yours rightly says, between 2012 and 2014, 5 billion outstanding debts were repaid. They increased by 50% this year. Avoiding new measures - and I am closing down with this - and a budget gap. I'll bring you the same argument again. This year, the Institutions said that in November 2014 the country will achieve a primary surplus of 2% of GDP. Indeed, they said that 'we do not think you will catch 3%' and ask for measures. So 2% of GDP primary surplus this year without measures. According to the memorandum you have voted on, the primary deficit this year is 1.5%, so the primary surplus of 2% without measures and we go to the primary deficit of 1.5% without measures. I wonder: If the lowest targets for primary surpluses are successful - obviously also primary deficits - why have you taken measures this year? Why have you had to take measures since you have been successful in presenting the lowest budgetary targets? The truth is that budgetary targets should be assessed together with the growth rates of the economy. When the economy turns from +3% to -1.5%, it is clear that in order to achieve and even lower budgetary targets, you need to take extra measures and that is what you had to do this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Stakoura. Mr Koutsoukos has the floor for two minutes and then we enter the Parliamentary Representatives from two minutes as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u206	I referred, Mr President, to my report for 2013, as a station in the hard and painful budgetary consolidation effort, and I also presented evidence that we were in 2009, what we achieved in 2013 with labor and sacrifices and what prospects were there, as demonstrated by the implementation of the 2014 budget and what was seen to happen in 2015, if we had not had a closure of this course. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that no one here alone here in the Chamber, but no citizens, when compared to where we are today and where we were at the end of 2014, will come to the conclusion that we are best today and as citizens we should also pay as an economy with its prospects. He said the Minister was on the plans, he was on the paper. Obviously, there was a plan of decapitation from the Memorandum, from the IMF, to pass the country on the preventive credit line, to come out on the markets, to become a normal country. This was not implemented as if it were not enough, but the situation that SYRIZA received with ANELs in January 2015 did not exploit it to close a deal on favourable terms. Let us not close with a billion of Mr Hardouvelis, let him close with something less, as they are more philosophical than us. But the country would be elsewhere. At the moment, then, it is reflected in the preliminary draft budget - and we will have the opportunity to discuss it - that we are back. We went back to the deficits, to the recession and to the growth of unemployment. Because, indeed, the Minister gives us a comparison of the results of the primary surpluses from the first year of the end of the recession of our programme with the corresponding programmes - the Memorandum - of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, I would like to say that this is nothing but the assumption of the three-year lost, that we will pay to get back to what we have achieved with labor and sacrifices. These were my remarks, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Ladies and gentlemen, we will start Parliamentary Representatives in reversed order from the order of the parties. Mr. Danellis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say two words only in relation to the remarks made by Mr Manda. We have compromised the idea that we are living in surreal times. I think, however, that it is brutally frustrating in the right speech, and it is quite cynically hypocritical that it is normal for the ruling party to call upon society to protest against the government's own government's policy on this matter. Because times are extremely difficult and all of us should be much wiser and much more serious, I think that SYRIZA should review such approaches to a very tough reality and speaking the language of truth in society and seeking real consensus and consensus with the political parties, try to detect the way out of bankruptcy and the crisis that plagues our society. The second issue is indeed very delicate and very serious. You saw that I didn't report to the police station. After all, unfortunately, this is what the government has chosen to do and that is what the government's jewelry that was brought to the Areo Ice today proves to file a complaint with your former Minister of Government in order to fame him. That's not the point. This is an extremely serious matter. I said just before that the Left cannot flirt in any way or stand flirt with the underworld or with terrorism, whether it is for reasons of naivety, whether it is for reasons of ideology or - even worse - by micro-party calculations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think it is not possible to accept - because these are facts that have not been disproved, and that is why the Prime Minister should have immediately made statements of denial of such events - that the Justice Ministry seems to be openly haggling bills with underground and terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u209	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative from the River Mr. Spyridon Danellis. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Incorporation, likewise for two minutes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. From what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said, I have drawn up three points which were - with reference to my name or with no reference to what I said and I want to comment on them. First of all, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, do you know what benefit this country would have if it had agreed in the last years of the number crisis? The agreement on numbers today is finally a conquest! However, those who despised the numbers or underestimated them did not understand the difference between a primary deficit of 15.7% and 7% and ignored the course of the political developments based, unfortunately, on these negative figures all these years, they must say something about them. That's the meaning of my placement. On the occasion of my reference to figures, because the 2010 figures and then we were employed, I would like to say that we are many fellow Members of the Committee of Inquiry and during this time of Parliament and that this is an outstanding case of parliamentary work. We ask you to continue. We ask you as a majority to bring the matter here. Mr Brutsis has opened this up for all the outstanding parliamentary affairs in the past period. For the second time today, we are telling you that we want to continue the work of this committee of inquiry. Secondly, Minister, on the Internet, in the press and in the report that states that even the Prime Minister is not disturbed by the mobilisations, but believes they should be big and serious, they give him the name 'ponder'. I forgave you, not for mistakes. For wickedness! Just as Mr. Dannelis meant. The mobilisations take place against a policy that you are voting on and the government is implementing. You're the target of mobilization. To say that you do not understand that and even call them, it is wicked - cheap - but also hypocrisy. Would we object to mobilisations? Did we have when we were a government? The unions with our own leaderships, members of our executive agencies, were on the way and were whistling at us. We're used to this. But we have never been wicked. We were right and the crisis requires uprightness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I do not understand why you did not understand the time of our own speech as a Democratic Incorporation on the issue of Panoussis. I was very analytic for the second time. I'm not talking to you because Panousis now and not then. We'll see you out of halloween. My own reference was to the need for no clouds within the House for two members. My report concerned the Members who charge you as partners of terrorism and as threats to a former Minister. You were a former secretary of the majority parliamentary group, SYRIZA. You are now representing the Group of the European People's Party. Does it not displease you that there may be such shadows and that some fellow Members, members of your group, may feel in defence when in the media they are invoked - badly, in my opinion - that SYRIZA has an affair with terrorism as a party? We have separated our position from that from the first moment. But the weeks and days can't pass, and that thing can be on the air. And I said that Panousis first has an obligation to give the names and not leave Greece to the mercy of the illegals, as Mr Kokkalis also filled in, leaks from circles of justice - not I imagine judges. On the other hand, neither the Prime Minister who knows who these two are - in introductory words - 'colleagues' must let us spend our days like this. I reminded you that it is another thing to crash here - and with the greatest intensity - and to know that if we conflict, something at night you will think about me. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are a man, as everyone calls it, absolutely secular in your parliamentary customs and behaviour, and you must understand that. Because I made this report, don't tell me 'why now and not then?' These are your issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u211	Good, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u212	Finally, Mr President, I do not want to say anything else. With regard to everything I said to the Deputy Minister for the so-called interventionist social redistribution policy that they are doing, we have recorded them and systemized them in an envelope. It is at the disposal of every Member who wants to support or counteract them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The last speaker is the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, in my dentistry, I cannot fail to raise the question that it has already been seven days since...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u215	Eight!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u216	Eight days have passed since cowardly cowards attacked Mr Kumoucasakos. It is unprecedented for the Greek Parliament, for the public life of our country not to have been arrested, while in all social media they are also named and photographed. Here the government has to say something and it doesn't say, Minister. Eight days later! Where did it sound? What a favoured country in Europe! Secondly, the issue that we are debating today with mathematical certainty and accuracy will haunt, Mr President, every time SYRIZA, when it comes to making the comparison. Today, Minister, beyond what has been said and beyond the dialogue which has developed, there is not one Greek unemployed, worker, businessman, farmer, Greek householder, general Greek citizen who says that he lives and feels and experiences things better than last year. Everything's worse and that'll haunt you. And thirdly, with regard to the government demonstration against the government, it is an issue that you need to see. It is not only the intellecting of the intelligence of the Greek people, but the atrocity that without a trace of shame you are mocking all Greeks to the face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u217	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Last speaker is the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Christos Mandas. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u218	First of all, as far as the issue we are discussing today in plenary is concerned, I have listened carefully, as I always do, to Mr Stakoura. First of all, I would like to ask myself whether you are adopting, without any critical distance, the views of the institutions directly. You know, the Institutions - the quartet, the troika, etc. - it's not a single thing, and in addition they don't always have the same opinion. In my opinion - and I say it fully - it is not appropriate, let me say it so, and it is not productive for our country's effort to be called here as an argument 'the institutions have also told you'. Because once again they may say that and the other one may say the other, and they may say the opposite. One is that. Secondly, with regard to the mixture of policy - which you said the difference between the first, second and perhaps third memorandum - I would like to remind you that the change in the mixture - which you said - had within its content the reduction of public expenditure, in which the issue of redundancies was also the subject of public officials. Or not? If my memory doesn't cheat on me, it was in it too. I do not want this situation to exist - and we will fight it with all our powers - in both the public and the private sectors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I come to the third - and I end, Mr President, and forgive me - the subject. Debt sustainability was a matter for which we have had long conflicts for a very long time. For some time you have said that debt is sustainable, because we can serve it, and now you are saying that it is probably not sustainable. In any case, what I tried to say in my speech - and I remember exactly what I said - was that we are actually opening up the debt issue. I said that strawberry. I believe that, and that is why I have said so, because I think that it is actually opening up the issue of debt, without underestimating - and I would like to say this - any attempts that have been made in this direction and in the previous period. And I come to the fourth and last. We as left-wing people have the feeling that the party is different and the government is different. They have different relationships. This is how we understand it. In this sense, we do not see any surrealist SYRIZA's party calling on the world to mobilize itself against austerity in the way it does, which in any case...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u219	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Dannelly, I have not interrupted you. I listened very carefully. In any case, we really do not feel any need to give anyone the fight against austerity, both in our country and throughout Europe, even if at this particular moment - and I said it very well in my speech - we are operating in a suffocating cord and we are taking painful measures for the people we really want to represent. And that is not the first time in the history of the Left, not to remind Mr. Karathanasopoulos much older times. Fifthly, what I tried to say in relation to Mr Panussis's point is that, firstly, we criticise the fact that he initiated a process by the media in this way for classified documents. And I think that from all sides of this House that is critical. And the second is that it has entered a process of judicial investigation. And the latter - and I would ask you very much for that - I want to say something, because Mr Loverdos has made a personal reference, like Mr Dannelis, and I would like to say it with a full sense: whatever way is opened to restoring the history of the two extremes is a path which is dangerous to democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u221	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u222	And be sure, Mr. Loverde, and all the other colleagues, that there is no shadow for no SYRIZA MP and finally. And end this story here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u223	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u224	So not reproducing such procedures, please, within the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: (a) ‘Repeal of the State's financial year 2013 Report’, (b) ‘Repeal of the State's Balance Sheet for the financial year 2013’. Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Reforming the State's financial year 2013 Report’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. [[Accepting the draft law]] Apparently, most of them were raised. Therefore, the bill of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Following the State Budget for the financial year 2013’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u226	Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Strengthening the State's Balance Sheet for the financial year 2013’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State Balance sheet of the State for the financial year 2013’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u227	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the minutes of the sitting of Wednesday 11 November 2015, including the debate and the vote of the State's Budget and Balance sheet for the financial year 2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u228	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-11-S1-commons.u229	With the consent of the House at 15.22 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 12 November 2015 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
