ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request by the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. You will allow me to mention the timely questions which have been raised either because of a Minister's impediment, in consultation with the Member or because of a Member's impediment. The first one, with number 435/21-7-2015, is a top-stage question of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the protection and promotion of the Kaiafa lake area. The second one, with number 437/21-7-2015, is a top-stage question of the first-stage question of the Athens MP, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the extension and conclusion of new individual clean-up contracts to the public sector, will not be discussed at the request of Mr. Mitsotakis, due to a serious family impediment. The third, with number 433/20-7-2015, is a timely question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the interruption of water supply of the Stanou Community of the Municipality of Aristotle Halkidiki, will not be discussed after consultation of the questioning Member with the relevant Minister. The first, with number 438/21-7-2015, is a topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Kozani of the New Democracy, George Kasapidis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the subsistence problem facing the Department of the Department of the Veterinary Department of the Regional Unit of Kozani, will not be discussed after consultation with Minister Voutsi. The second question, under number 427/14-7-2015, is a topical question from the MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition. Alexandras Chanaka to the Minister of National Defence, on the performance of the premises of the Asmakopoulou camp and the airport of Amydaleon Kavala in local government, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question under number 412/7-2015 is the second question of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition. Ilias Kamaterou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the saturated tourist areas and inequality in development, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The seventh question, number 395/29-6-2015, on the statements by the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Kotzias during his visit to Skopje on 24-6-2015, will not be discussed as a result of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The ninth under number 401/30-6-2015 topical question of the New Democracy MP, Ioannis Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the creditors' requirements for cuts in expenditure in the Armed Forces, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The twelfth under No. 219/14-5-2015 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister will not be discussed because of the Minister's impediment to the provocative action of Skopje in Florina, it will not be discussed because of the Minister's impediment. The thirteenth question, number 234/18-5-2015, topical question from the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning bilateral relations with the neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek exclusive economic zone, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourteenth under number 168/28-4-2015 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the Skopje", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, from the cycle of petitions - questions, the first with number 1116/24-2015 question by MP B' of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "AYDINLIK" that "Turkey proceeded with the creation of a committee for the vindication of sixteen Greek islands", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. We begin with the four topical questions that Minister Spirtz will answer. The third question will be discussed under number 423/13-7-2015, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the role of TIPED in exploiting the Greek. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I am very pleased that you are in the Chair today. I remember from the first speeches, when I was appointed parliamentary representative - from the then Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis - to be a major issue since then. There were well-known events at the time that look very similar to today's. I am not happy because so many years later it concerns political life the same subject, but I am glad that the government has put the cubit too high, and I believe that it will not pass the bottom, but go above it this time. A while ago, the President of the Technical Chamber of Commerce, Christos Spirtzis, came and said - and upset the pan-Hellenic - that grace was given to the well-known Mr. Latsis the Greek, a great scandal. Until then, the questions I had put to you and many other colleagues had been put before the world. I'll testify for the Minutes. It's been a long time since. The outcome of justice came to the public the day before yesterday, which says that there experts can do different things, calculate the property of the public, and then come both the bidders and the bidders, whether they are OPAP, the airports of Greek etc. I was saying how high the government puts the cubit because yesterday's front page from the newspaper "THOI" says "cleaning now" and has the Minister, Mr. Nikoloudis, who says and develops very specific things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the twenty-eight-eight-eight-dollar public houses with the TIAD. On July 20th, a prosecution was carried out against the officials of the GOD, because they damaged - it says - the Greek State only received 500 million for twenty-eight properties. I'll submit them to the Minutes for there to be. But everywhere there seems to be a Latsi. It can't be. There's others. For Mr Latsis, however, yesterday's newspaper 'KONTRA NEWS' has a front page on 'Colpo Latsis' for the deforestation of the National Bank with a 'SKAI' vehicle. Why, he says? Because it has, he says, unfinishedities and needs as a "private ram" the "SKAI". However, it is also on the subject of today's question to which you are calling, Mr Minister, to answer. Will you ask for all complaints to be investigated on this particular subject of the Greek? Will you refer all relevant files to justice in order to investigate the Greek case? Will you check as to the correctness of the methods used for the valuation of the assets of the GOI? Will you consider the procedures and methods of selecting any advisers who have consulted on the value of the Greek? Will you carry out investigations into all the costs incurred by the Privatization Board? In an article by Giannis Daskas at "Kathimerini", entitled "Babis, the “system” Suyaya”, refers to the one who calls the President of Parliament, Zoe Konstantopoulou, private, stupid. And I'll testify to that, because time doesn't allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u3	Give him time. I've given you double time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u4	Babis writes: "They were four at dawn, the President had spoken more than the Prime Minister, so that the private President could reach the natural, so humane conclusion: "I have no confidence in them." The "Babis Sujah", which Yannis Duskas also says, is coming to continue this project. Yesterday's "Kathimerini" does not know about Varoufakis and creates issues, as if he wanted the Minister of National Economy, Mr President, he had to hack, and he did not have the full capacity of all ATMs!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u5	Keep something for dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I expect your answer with interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u7	I hope, Minister, that we will be on Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u8	Territory!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nicholas, as you know, it does not belong to my responsibilities the question of the utilization of the Greek. As far as I know from my previous capacity, however, a judicial investigation has been initiated, in relation to what we have presented to the Chamber of Technical Chambers, and so the questions you are obviously asking are in research. And so that you do not think that I am avoiding, in the Minutes too, to take the initiative of Parliament and Members of Parliament for what you have asked, not only the institutions, but also the following: the presentation of the economic study that I made at the Technical Chamber, the presentation of the assessment of the investment value of the Hellenic Chamber, the full economic study that is in the competent judicial authority and doing the investigation, the publication by the Technical Chamber, as well as - why it is not unconnected - the presentation we had made to the Greek Parliament on the Greek bill that had been passed long before the Greek and the HELIOS Programme was passed. So I am giving you all this package so that, apart from us and what we have done on this matter, Members of Parliament can also help with their own initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u11	Well done, Minister. Thank you for the brief time. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, as you can see, a new circle of parliamentary intervention will obviously also open up television broadcasts if the material that the Minister has given comes to the public for the first time and did not bring us'sound grapes' last year. I'm not in position, and I don't understand. Maybe everyone watching us from the Parliament's channel didn't understand. But I am sure it will have to do with the operation 'clean hands' which has recently been unfolding and with this group set up by the Prime Minister, because otherwise the world, Mr Minister, will stay with the impression and repeat the cognitive 'Korako eye does not work'. I am pleased that Mr Augias is here, because the day before yesterday he tabled a question for me, and so he has shown that he is not making a horn. Mr. Ausgekis, you give me the chance since you're here, because some people said if you're wearing pants...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u13	But what you are doing now is out of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u14	No, no. It's on the subject. So Mr. Augias asked if he was Nikolalopoulos who was on the list. So Nicholopoulou caught Mr. Aygeakis and tabled a question for himself on Monday. Aggregates and another twenty - one, came after three days. They're here and they're late! So he sued the owner and channel owner of the channel "ART" and one who has the website "FONAKLAS", so that no one can say that "Korak eye horn" does not work. I therefore hope, Minister, that you, too, today with the material you have given, will answer all the questions that have been put to me and the previous Samara - Venizelos government has put everything in the file. He considered that it was not so important either for the Latsis Commercial Centre which reduced the value of 90% by either the Greek. Mr President, I am tabling these for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, thank you. We'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words. Mr Nicolopoulos, as you have seen from the few months we are running, there is nothing that has fallen to our understanding and not to give it to the competent judicial authorities. Now, as far as the material I've given you is, there's business issues in the HICP. We gave that in public at the time. They just didn't get the dimensions they had to take. We are giving you the study that has not been published - only one summary - to be able to monitor it and anyone who wishes to do so. She proves the big difference in relation to the assessment we made at the Technical Chamber and the offer of a minority for the Greek, which is used to the TDIDE, that is to say, going with one to the competitive process. I think - and I say this in my presentation, you will see - that the assessment made by the Technical Chamber - and I would like to stress this - was a conservative assessment and it was for the specific model of exploiting the Greek chosen. If we chose another model as a country of recovery, then it is obvious that the revenues would be much more than the estimate made by the Technical Chamber of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u17	Me too, Minister. Mr. Aygaki, after the aborigines, would I have your permission...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u19	I'll give you the floor and the above to answer. But I'd like to ask you one more question. You're second to the question. Third, it's Mr. Nicholas. I was thinking that I might have your permission to give Mr Nicholas the floor to ask his second question, and then you will have more time to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u20	I have no problem with that, Mr President. I just wanted to say something for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u21	Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u22	I am pleased that Mr Nikolaopoulos has moved earlier, without me knowing, exercising parliamentary control and having made it clear that his position is completely clear and that he has no involvement with all of this. Incidentally, in the question that we tabled twenty-one New Democracy MP, we have a parentheses and a question mark, because we were not sure, because all this is wrong and we must be cleared up. I am therefore pleased that a colleague is running toward justice, without any involvement and says by exercising parliamentary control, control us and clarify my name. Some other colleagues did not do the same, as they should, of course, have created all the thing that has been followed. I'm glad you did what you did. It is extremely important that anyone considered or sounds to be involved in such issues, take the initiative and close this issue once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u23	By the way, now I'm doing something I'm not used to. In the past - Mr Nicholas remembers - a site had published thirty political names two, two and a half years ago. Well, then, I had done exactly the same as myself. The check's over. Nothing was found. But listen now. For reasons - it says - protection of personal data in writing is not your answer. They tell you about it. So if I go to Nicolopoulou's show at night and tell me, "What happened with that story?", I'll tell him "closed" and he'll say "and how do you prove it?". If that's possible! Hanging you in a newspaper is an old law that hasn't changed. That's allowed! When you're checked, if you're found guilty, okay, you're following the road, if you're found innocent, they say it orally. Paper that we checked you and found nothing given. You need to know that. I said this to Mrs Valavani, who admitted it and said that she would make it in a first bill, because scripta manent. If Nicolopoulos wants to believe me, if he doesn't want to, he doesn't believe me. Well, Mr. Nicolopoulou, thank Mr. Aygeakis for his question. The eighth question will be discussed under number 391/29-6-2015. The second question by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos of ANLE to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the work of the ERGOSE Tunnel. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, Mr Augias has been trying to get me over parliamentary control for years and sometimes he does. So if he hadn't dealt with this matter too, it would have been curious. Minister, I don't know if I'm supposed to say I'm sorry to trouble you and your services once again on a very well-known subject, but it's about all these good people who have set up a nice job. They have set up a customs office in every major business in the state, set up a toll station, and so how their channels live. Why do you wonder 'how you're doing, son!' I asked Spirtzi the day before, who has put his hand on the media, and I said, "But when they haven't paid their debts, do you do them good to go and shut them down?" If he owes the horse with the wings, PEGASOS, eight hundred, if Mr. Alfouzos asks and gets into the setting of the hundred instalments, because he didn't want to pay the television fee, what's going on? What is going on with Mr Bobola now, in this regard - we welcome it! - and the Cold Tunnel project scandal? It has therefore proved to be a celebrity of what is happening in the great works. But there's no child who doesn't know about it! And what do all of us Members now have to apologise for national pimps, national contractors and national garbagemen? The other day, Bobola signed up for the garbage in Kosani. And people caught me saying, "Here it is! You have also seen this government...'. He went there and Bobolas and ELLAKOR. And is Cudras together? Hey, you can't miss Cudras! Couldn't it? Well, we have asked fifteen questions and we say, Mr President - I think you were in the Chair last time - is it possible for the same servants who are accused - not from us, not from parliamentary control, are normally accused - not to have gone disciplinary, to be in their seats, to sign? My colleague from Achaia, Mrs. Kanellepoulou, is here. One, Mr President, had a 5% discount and a little further away the other hole for Panagopula had a 45% discount. Was it another area there? Was it any other soil? What was there, blessed people? And how much does the world pay for this? He's paying for billions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have nothing to tell us, so I won't develop it, because Mr. Kaklamanis will stop me and he'll be right. You know that story from the outside. It comes from the government of Papandreou, Papademos, Samaras and goes by saying. I hope, for your day, Minister, that you will prove that the experience you carry, you carry it, not like the Kutruman, at that time, his know-how against the workers and the insured. You, as you come from this sector, know very well - and that is why you will have no apology - what if you let this scandal continue, but also all of us who come and do parliamentary control, and we have the lawsuits and the lawsuits and the threats of these. Neither the President of Parliament nor the government has ever moved in the name of complaints made here and by other colleagues and by me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u25	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Nicholas, as you know, the work of the Othrus Tunnel, but also in general the large projects of ERGOSE, have dealt with Parliament, the press and the competent judicial authorities. I will not respond, assess or assess the legislation of previous governments, as you ask me, because I believe that the answer was given to the previous elections and is given daily by the citizens to the battles of the government and Prime Minister against the opacity, the smuggling of public money, against the social degradation policies and the social injustices we have experienced. What I can commit to is that, in a piece of legislation that will be publicly given for consultation in a few days, the opacity in the area of projects, namely budgets, contracts, accounts payments, consultants, contractors, schedules, supervisors, everything. For this reason, you will make a few days of patience, because these issues are not treated so easily and are not treated with legislation alone. A huge effort must then be made to implement what is forty years pending in the field of public works. Now, as far as this project is concerned, as the Minister for Justice has answered to you, it is undergoing a process involving possible corruption. The case is pending before Greek justice, and any intervention on our part would at least be inappropriate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, because this is something Mr Nicholas has been asking for for for five years now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u27	You have time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u28	Now, with regard to the information you have requested, not only today, but for five years with your questions and related to the project, we have collected it and delivered it to the Minutes of the House, despite the fact that the new administration has only been established for about two weeks. We did not print them, because thousands of pages would be required, which you will see on your own. We are therefore tabling them, Mr President, in electronic form, along with the internal audit report, which had also been requested in the past by Mr Nikolaopoulos. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the Minutes, in electronic form, the above mentioned documents, which are in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] Indicatively, let me give you a few figures. Any other evidence we'll talk about next. It is the forty-fourth annual account you have requested, the thirty-sixth, the project management report by the Board of Directors ‘GRANT THORNTON’ on behalf of the Minister of Education, the decision of the Arbitration Court on the thirty-sixth account, the decision of the Arbitration Court on the Convention ‘470’, the views of the ERGOSE on the Audit Report of the Inspector General, the Internal Audit Report, the Contractor’s Adviser’s report, the report of the ELJ on the contract and the audit carried out, the report of the Audit Committee of ERGOSE, the report to the Prototype Attorney-General of Athens, the opinion and the provisional receipt protocol. I imagine there's other evidence we've collected that you'll see with your quietness. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Also, it is at your disposal and any other element on this project, but also on other projects you have been asking for for for years and years and you and other Members are not given. I would like to point out that the role of the Government and the Ministry will not replace either the competent audit authorities or the judicial authorities. What we are doing, however, is that we will also inform the competent judicial authorities and the audit authorities and, obviously, Parliament of anything that falls behind your understanding or of anything that is being asked, in order to facilitate either research that is under way either as possible or for the information of the Greek people and Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u29	I would like to say that it has never been submitted to me in electronic form before. I wish it would be established by all the ministries. It's getting away with the House and space and it's easier after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u30	Or it would be encyclopedia!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u31	Yeah, it's really good. Here, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, those who are following this debate may say 'E, and what is important today? Obligation was.’ But I will also give them this opportunity, because I will put forward more than thirty - forty questions. We asked for these documents. And who were they asking for? The competitors? We know each other, Mr President, because you know them very well, Mr President, and I too, because we are from the same political womb - I say, therefore, that Dimitris Karapanos, Governor of the OSCE on Constantine Mitsotakis and employee president, and Manos Panagiotou, who has arrived to be the general manager, have been in this fight against corruption for years at the party that is being held there. What was the result? Prosecutors, lawsuits, lawsuits! Why did they go and testify? That's why I mention their names now. Because he gave me the right. And what were we looking for? I now put my name on it, because I was coming to parliamentary control and bringing the papers. And they said, Mr President, that we need a tricycle. And we said we'd bring the tricycle. And several excuses for many years now. They have reached the point because the judge dared to end up somewhere, to say 'these remind us of something'. It's like what these strange guys say, obsessed people over there. Listen! And the SAD is ordered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, Minister, in closing I say to you that I know what you have done today and I say so simply so that both Greeks and Greeks can hear it. You gave all the material you had to give, but it wasn't for the others to do it. However, you seem not to want to put your relatives or your apologies - Babi, the Panathinaikos - in order to control these cases. And that's what matters. It's a small country. We know each other very well. With Manolis Kefaloyannis, the compatriot of Leuteris, we went to the prosecutor to give us these information when there was always a need for parliamentary control. In conclusion, however, I would like to say, Minister, that I also told the Minister of Justice, who had come to the same subject the other day - 'is it now possible'? Rakinji did a job. Volumes and him. People, evil! He has been involved since September 2012, Mr President. How much do we have now? 2015? Well, how many years does it take? In 2012, then, Rakintzis gave a complete job and said: "These gentlemen must go to Disciplinary, because they are jury". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So they remain in their positions. They are continuing to support the interests of all national contractors. Maybe with the uninjurious. What can I tell you? I don't know. They may find out, like the old lady Pontia, while criminal prosecutions were persecuted to a degree of felony. Mr Kaklamani, would you who made Mayor really keep some officials in such sensitive positions - not road-cleaners - who put "gold" signatures, contractors and while criminal prosecutions have been persecuted, be there? Mr. Spirtzi, the next time you have them there, I will say: "Excuse me very much, you may not know that. It can't be!' Well, your predecessors are well. We said okay, they got their answer. We were asked how they were in the positions of the ministers. I've been saying, "Re, how did the Minister of Public Work come up?" My dear Mr President, Mr Nikita, the first bill that that Minister, the translated into the order, was to clear this case. Look at that! All the unconventional and the sinners brought them here and baptized them in the swimming pool of Siloam and so whatever heresy were, made them a law of the state. The law of the state, the Bobola conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Nicolopoulou, it goes without saying that, because you have photographed a colleague, since he read the Minutes, he will want to answer you sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u34	I wish, because then I said it before him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u35	I am the President-in-Office of the Council. From there on, I'm not taking a stand. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Nicolopoulou, as I had answered in a similar question you had done for another project, then we expected the new administration to enter the ERGOSE. Now he's in, but give her some time credit. People aren't even two weeks there. Obviously, I imagine they will take care of such phenomena, but these, when you take over the administration of such an agency, do not take place in the first 10 days. They need to be informed. Already the work they have done - they have helped us to present to the Greek Parliament - and the preparation work they are doing for the railway projects is too heavy, so at the same time they will do the rest of the work that we all expect. They need some time credit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u37	Will they remain in their seats?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u38	He gave an answer. He said he'd take over the new management. You're asking for a little tolerance. It's only been 15 days since they took over. Besides, we're here. You're capable of bringing back a question in a month. The fifth question will be discussed under number 419/7-2015, topical question by the Member of the Parliament, Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeakis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the completion of the work of the Heraklion - Messara road network. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the vertical axis of Heraklion - Messara is, not just a constant demand, which we have been hearing for decades and which has still not been cancerd and which is not being completed, but an urgent need, given the traffic volume of mobile citizens, professionals, tourists and products. It is a classic example of a project that has been completely out of initial schedules, outside of the budget and outside the programme and of additional contraction. To be honest, the responsibility of the previous PASOK and Papademos governments has been charged with it. We are once again talking about it in this Chamber. More specifically, the part of Agia Varvaras - Kastelli - Moiras began in 2007 and wants at least a decade to complete, as the third contractor runs, which is being discussed today. The first contractor relates to the construction of a section of Agia Varvara - Apmarma. The contract with an initial budget of 46 million was signed in 2008 with a timetable for completion in December 2013. The contractor never finished. It reached an integration rate of up to 72%, as a result of exceptional technical problems and landslides, a supplementary contract was deemed necessary, as well as additional expropriation. The second contraction concerns the construction of a section of Apartama - Kastelli. The contract with an initial budget of EUR 38,5 million was signed in 2007 with planned completion in April 2013. This is where things went a little better. The project, two years after the completion timetable, is almost complete, except for some of the work, due to the transfer of ancients and these are at the end. Last December, at last, the third, except for initial planning, contraction, so-called brooms, was successfully auctioned with a budget of EUR 47 million. A contractor, who gave a big discount, took the cost to about 30m euros. The delegation was approved by the Court of Auditors, by the committee responsible, but unfortunately, the contractor has not even worked today, although he is part of the NSRP and at the end of the year the project is over, and the funding is over. At the moment, the project is facing a problem in terms of its compatibility. In particular, the contracting authority found that the copy of the contractor's licence on the day of the tendering procedure did not apply. I read from your reply in writing that your services have initiated the revocation procedures and after the company's objections, examine the period of revocation of the licence and have initiated the disciplinary procedure. Minister, the delay in the contractor's installation poses major problems in terms of project funding, because the project is part of the ESRB, as I said before, and is completed at the end of 2015 and the implementation times are now marginal. Let me remind you that we are talking about a large and quite demanding contraction that will take at least two years to implement. So I ask you how, and above all when - I repeat - will you have at last dealt with this problem in order to start implementing this project? What exactly are you going to do as a competent Minister? Are you going to re-publish the project? You answered by your written question that the question is being considered by the Secretariat-General of the Directorate-General for Infrastructure. How many months do it really take to get a finding? We have already reached three and go for the fourth month in which this problem is being dealt with. Why don't you take any initiative to make a fair decision and run things? Why, Minister, do you allow funds and funding to be lost from our country, while we do not want to find a single euro? You are not an observer, Minister you are and in this capacity I invite you to take initiatives and dismantle this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u40	You have the floor, Minister. We would also like to understand what Mr. Aggenakis meant by his degree, that is, what was TEI and said in polytechnics?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u41	No, no. I'll explain. Mr President, Mr Augias, I would like to make a few things clear, because the way the question has been asked is not clear. The Office was prepared to propose and sign the contract after completion of the procedure at the Court of Auditors and the hearing in Parliament. However, the signature of the contract was not implemented and could not be implemented because the second company had complained to the tender as a retailer for an irregular participation in the tender by the joint bidder. I don't have to say the names of the companies. It is at the disposal of Parliament, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u42	It's not a secret.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u43	It's not a secret, I just don't want to put oil on the fire. He had an illegal degree briefing. Such a complaint existed at the Ministry. There was an illegal proficiency, because it was issued using invaluable tax information. While pending, Mr Aygeakis, the procedure at the Court of Auditors, the Ministry with its services began to investigate the correctness of the complaints. The audit showed that this tax information is indeed invalid because it was not found in the System of the General Secretariat of Information Systems at the TAXIS NET. On this basis, a question was sent to PWN on 9-7-2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u44	The Legal Council of the State is the PWN.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u45	Yeah, I'm sorry about the arctic. ... to the Legal Council of State as to whether the existence of invalid tax information raises a question of general or partial revocation of a diploma. If, therefore, the Legal Council of State give a favourable opinion in favour of the general revocation, this will be accepted by the Minister, as you can see, and then it will draw the blockade of the joint venture and it will emerge - there is no need for a re-publishment - the next participant. If the opinion is in favour of partial withdrawal, then there is no question of the current joint venture being excluded and the contract may be signed. Therefore, Mr Augias, I imagine that you are not asking us to sign a convention in breach of the principle of legality, that is to say, you are not asking us to illegally, especially for mature works that are in the process of signing a contract, but are not being investigated and that we are not investigating the complaints that exist and have fallen to the understanding of both the Ministry and the Minister responsible, because that would also be the case for the officials and the Minister responsible for duty violations. In this respect, the Ministry is aware of two things before the signing of the contract: the first is complaints to be investigated and the second is that, as the complaints were examined, there is an invaluable informancy. So, obviously, no one is asking us - and I imagine you have not shown such signs of writing - to silence the fact that, while it is in the knowledge of an invaluable degree, the Ministry is going too far to sign a contract, that is to say, illegal. I would like to point out, Mr President, that for the same company on 25 June 2015 I signed a review of it in the sixth grade. This company, that is, since 2005, has been in the sixth grade and since then its degree has been revised every three years. There is therefore no partial attitude of the Ministry towards this company, nor is there any suspicion that he does not want to do the work with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u46	You were clear. Pending the opinion of the Legal Council of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u47	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Aygeakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u49	Minister, and I would like to tell you to move in favour of or against one or other company, I would not do this for a joke, and of course I would not do so in this Chamber with this step that gives me the opportunity of the Rules of Procedure. But we have two companies to understand and those who are watching us, one that denounces one another, one contractor sues the other. I am sure that if it were Mr. Souflias in your position, Mr. Spirtzi, the problem would have been solved. Because it would take initiatives much sooner, effective and, above all, with a determination that distinguished him, and today we would not see the euros being lost and funding for this very important project, looking for them after a few months. The main question, Minister, is when the procedure will be completed. Do you have guaranteed funding if it does not come in, if we cannot get a single euro from the ESRB that ends in a few months? Timeline you have? What's the Ministry's leadership doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u50	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u51	The Minister doesn't need any help, Mr. Petrako. I imagine he has the ability to answer for himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u52	All right, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, then, well, well, well, well, He's messinio, forgive him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u53	Okay. Minister, the account of government errors, failures and omissions as a whole, but also of yours and your Ministry, after six months of government, is incredibly great. So this account, Mr President, is being sent to the Greek people - not you, but the government - as a result of decent but proud, otherwise, of negotiating. And I'll analyze you right away. Because to SYRIZA, you are the island - commonly do the duck - Mr Minister, when we tell you that you have screwed up. Before I read the big list, I would remind you that you were telling us riskists a few months ago in this Chamber when we were discussing the future of major projects in a timely question from the opposition officer at that time. So this account, among other things, currently includes a payment stop in the major infrastructure projects financed by the ESDP and the Public Investment Programme. Large roads built by the concession method are re-suspended as in 2010. Construction site dismantling and thousands of redundancies all over Greece. The schedules of projects fall outside one after another. The expropriations have completely stopped. The archaeological work is frozen and the Ministry of the Environment has ceased to grant approvals. Unfortunately, Minister, you are in danger of finding yourself before unfavourable surprises and as a Qualified Opposition, we are hitting the alarm bell once again. Foreign lenders - these bad guys, blackmailers, the riskists and all of them - may - you know that - in suspension of financing, termination of credit contracts and withdrawal from financial schemes. As you can see, two serious issues arise. The first - and I am sure you know - is that the suspension of co-funded projects for the period 2007-2013, where the eligibility of expenditure ends at the end of 2015, will leave them incomplete and the country will be called before the risk of returning large sums to the European Union. And the second, Mr Minister, is that if the European Union wishes to do so, it can impose sanctions on the misuse of European funds if it is found that the money of the ESDP covers other "holes". How are you going to deal with all this? How will you deal with this entire wave of redundancies of workers in these projects? Let us now say what we are doing, Minister. While the airport "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" is the second largest airport arrivals in the country, the competent Greek authorities leave out of funds under the Trans-European Networks programme, amounting to 30 billion euros of Heraklion airport, the first after the "Venizelos", airport arrivals across Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u54	Because I don't see the House closing down for Sections or summer, that's another timely question. We've been through time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u55	I'm ending this, Mr. Kaklamani. You have not presented any study to date to introduce Heraklion Airport into the trans-European networks programme. Mr. Minister, we met about four months ago at the offices of Mr. Stathakis and you committed before both the Mayor of Heraklion and the Region of Crete that within a few weeks you would set up a committee to discuss the problems of the Airport "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS". None of this was done or, if you have done, tell us, because neither the mayor nor the district manager know anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Ignace, please don't embarrass me. You've used twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u57	One final word, Mr President. Minister, twenty-nine SYRIZA Members have tabled a question today about you - not you personally, your ministry - on the privatisation programme of the fourteen regional airports. Do you do something behind the back of the Greek people, who question you twenty-nine Members of your party? I would like to know, because, if that is the case, it is good for the entire Greek people and, of course, for this House to know exactly what the SYRIZA colleagues who have tabled their question today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u58	In any case, the competent Minister will answer the twenty-nine Members. Minister, you will necessarily have a comfortable time because Mr Augarians raised another matter. I'll put you four minutes, but we'll keep them. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u59	Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Ausgeus, because you're watching me very closely...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u60	In a good way. Let's make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u61	Yeah, yeah, always in the good sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u62	It's my counterpart, Mr. Minister, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u63	As you know, I'm at the Ministry for three months. Secondly, while I do not want to see high on the answers I give, because you will then be asking for the floor on staff again, I would like to clarify, Mr President, that I am not personally addressing Mr Augiakis, but on his resignation. You have set forty years - not to say much more - a opacity system, a system that serves specific interests, a system that keeps the country hostage and the development projects in the country and you come to give us up because we did not and we do not act as Mr Souflias would. Let me tell you Mr Souflia's report: everything that has come out of Mr Souffle's work is not complete, it has exceeded, the contractors are asking for much more money, because there were other procedures at that time. One could, to say, get a job with a very high discount and then correct it along the way. Two weeks ago, Mr President, I tabled a compensation for Morea, because it had been delayed in signing the contract. This is a great originality in the context of public works throughout Europe because it is delaying the signing of the contract to compensate, as if any work were done. And I've said that all I'm not going to be is Souffles. I could be a lot of other things. The only thing I'm not going to be as a minister to handle these things is Soufly. That's the first. Secondly, I remember the timely question, when it happened here - unfortunately, Mr President - was chairing another parliamentary bullying in relation to the question you had asked, but I would also like to remind you of a few things, because you are probably missing. You know, the country is not going through a smooth period and the government is negotiating too hard, with the dangers that exist all this time. So, in this period, why are you telling us why the four, five, six major project contracts were not paid? Is that what you're asking us? Are you telling us that we have directed the projects of the NRP elsewhere? That's a lie! Everyone knows that they are paid for first by the Greek public and then taken from Brussels. So how did we pay them and direct them elsewhere, since we're paying them first? Because this is where we're going, Mr. President! In other words, these things cannot be heard in Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u64	He asked it as a question, he did not make it a complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u65	Yeah, I'm answering him, too. You are telling us that Heraklion is outside trans-European networks. Well, Mr. Aygeakis, so many years of Heraklion airport why didn't you join the trans-European networks? Has there been any talk of trans-European networks now? In the last five, six months, we have spoken about the airport, the port, the road, the railway, and what part of the trans-European networks or not? Wasn't that a work of your governments? The competition for the fourteen airports exempted from Heraklion, which is out of trans-European networks that you are leaving us now, isn't your design?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u66	But, Minister, I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u67	Your design wasn't going out...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u68	For the twenty-nine SYRIZA MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u69	Leave them twenty-nine SYRIZA MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u70	In any case, we voted for them. I would remind you that it was the second vote. They've already voted on these, let them go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u71	The twenty-nine SYRIZA MPs do well and ask about the fourteen airports and this contest, which you had predicted, in the way you had predicted it and which are not profitable for the country, regardless of whether the government will be called upon to implement, because there is a specific programme and commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u72	But you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u73	Did I say anything else? You listened to other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u74	Can I go back to the Minutes, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Spirtzi, it's not about you. All right, let's move on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u76	No more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u77	That from your other colleagues, other things had been said...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u78	We don't say any more. The government says the following simple thing. There's a contest forced by the country to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u79	Six months...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u80	Listen, read some...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Ausgarian, that's not how we talk. Okay, let's take it easy. It's hot, too, but please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u82	At some point you must read. There was a contest that was made by the deal with the lenders that laid down in means that it must be completed with the existing competition. That's what the deal says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u83	What were you talking about, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u84	This does not mean that we accept the model that you had started and we are being called upon to complete, so that we do not throw the country on the rocks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u85	Well, then quit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u86	Please tell me too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u87	If you don't agree, quit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u88	You tell me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Ausgeakis, you are an old parliamentarian. I'm so sorry. We've already been five and forty-seven because of the vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, what Mr Augias says...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u91	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u92	I'll be done. ...it only applies to others, not to himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u93	Answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u94	Yes, I'm answering. So I say the following simple matters in the light of the question about this project. There is no possibility, first of all, that I will become Souflias, secondly, that we should illegally and exploit other kinds of logic, like the ones followed by previous governments with your own participation in the way they were carrying out projects. And, apart from the incidents and the specific question, the work, Mr. Augarian...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u95	One more minute, Minister, I'm not giving you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u96	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u97	You've already taken two and a half minutes over four.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u98	I have been interrupted ten times, Mr President, and twenty issues have been raised. The work, as you know, - and the contest came out of your own government - is a project - 'bug'. In other words, this final invitation includes works which are left over from the other two contractors, the first and the second. From there one understands how seriously the studies were being carried out, the projects were being done, to have at the end of the first contractor, second contractor, contractor - 'bug' to what the contractor could not do. Mr President, in December of '14, that is to say, before the announcement of the elections, in whichever conclusions can be drawn, and of course I imagine that one of the solutions that would be promoted should there be another Minister, when he urged Mr Augias, it would be to make a law, legalise these procedures and go further.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u99	Now answer what you would do...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u100	That's not what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u101	I am so sorry, Mr President, I did not say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u102	Look, now I'm gonna have to intervene, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u103	I didn't ask any Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Ignace, who gave you the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u105	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u106	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u107	I would also like to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u108	I'll give it to you, Mr. Petrako, don't worry. What's the staff, Mr. Ausgeakis? He didn't refer to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u109	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u110	First of all, I haven't given the floor. You'll tell me what the staff is first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u111	Firstly, Mr President, I did not ask any Minister or any other government to annul, Mr President. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u112	The Minister didn't blame you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u113	The contents of the question were 'find a solution'. Either this contractor, if his papers are well, to anyone else, to the second or to the third, but find a solution, because the project is part of the ESRB...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u114	Well, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u115	I'm not changing my questions to God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Petrakos, I will give you more time, within your question, to say what you want. So we close the first cycle of topical questions with number 377/23-6-2015, a topical question by the MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the progress of important infrastructure projects in Messinia such as the Good Water - Tsakona and the perimeter Kalamata, Kalamata - Rizzomylos. I'm giving you another minute in your protology for the reason I promised you. Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I raise the question, I would like to say that it is unprecedented - in my opinion - that Mr Augakis should resign and call on the Minister to fight the twenty-nine Members of the SYRIZA - including myself - because we have tabled a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u118	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u119	Yeah, that's what I understood. ...not to privatize the fourteen... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, I haven't interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u120	You interrupted me before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u121	This is an unprecedented fact. Mr Augias will not be a pedophile of the Members here about who and what kind of questions we will be asking. It's over and out. I shall now proceed to the question, Mr President. Minister, the citizens of Greece would think that because in Messinia we had several important ministers in the past and Prime Minister, all infrastructure problems would have been solved. Unfortunately, reality is very different, very different indeed. In Messinia there is a project that the Greek State has paid three times. The famous work of Chacona that has collapsed, and now there is a great bridge and - I beg you and the Minister must act, since you are the same Ministry, to be blamed, who is responsible for the Greek State reaping money. But beyond that, there are serious issues relating to the major road projects of the prefecture. The Kalamata regional and the Lefktras section - Sparta - have been stopped because the Lefktra concession contracts allow concessionaires and banks to blackmail governments and require additional guarantees and financing, either - as you quite rightly said before - to require compensation because the signatures of the contracts have been delayed or for a series of delays. Also, the Good Water-Tsacona, part of the famous Olympia Olympia Road, which will not reach Olympia but will stop in Patras, when the new contract with the concessionaire was signed, was removed from the object of the Olympian Road, and what we ask the Messinia is the specific project to be implemented. However, in spite of the previous government's promises, very specific studies were lacking and it was also not submitted by the government to join major projects. Finally, Kalamata - Rizzomylos and Rizzomylos - Pylos have been announced on several occasions by Mr Samaras himself for clear communication without, however, complete studying maturity of the project and especially the money required for his tender. Mr Minister, can you ask: First, when will the studies necessary be auctioned so that the Good Water - Chacona project can be auctioned? Secondly, when is the perimeter of Kalamata and the Lefktra - Sparta expected to be completed? And thirdly, what steps will you take to mature and auction the Kalamata - Rizzomylos and Rizzomylos - Pylos projects? Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u122	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Petrakos, let's take it backwards from what you asked about Kalamata - Rizzomylos, let's talk about the story. The region and the prefecture have previously awarded a programme contract to the "Development Messinia Anonymous Company" the study on the implementation of measures necessary to improve the Rizzomylos - Kalamata road network, which has already been completed and received. The approved M.R.E. During the consultation phase for approval, several main environmental conditions were included and essentially required the reorganisation of existing studies. By decision of the Ministry of Public Works Secretary of the Ministry of Culture. The services were entrusted with the assistance of the service in reconstructing the studies of the Kalamata-Rizomylos road section, in order to align them with the environmental conditions and the comments existing. The necessary studies have already been submitted and are in the monitoring phase by the agency, mainly with regard to bridge studies, because you have already touched on it. After the completion of the audit, a recommendation will be made to the Public Works Council on the update process, as laid down in the Act, since the studies were drafted in procedures other than n. 3316/2005 to be brief. Now, in the section Rizzomylos - Sulinari - Pylos and Pylos - Methoni, following the approval of the environmental conditions, which the study was completed for the sake of completeness of the whole project and with the intermediate part of the bypass of Pylos, the premeditated road and nodes was approved. In addition, the financing of the existing contract for the preparation of studies in the Rizzomylos - Pylos - Methoni - through which the studies of the first subsection Rizzomylos - Sulinari will first be completed. The final study of road construction and nodes has already been submitted and funding has been provided with an amount of 3.4m euros for the opening of the remaining stages of studies and corresponding geotechnical studies in the sub-sections Sulinari - Pylos, bypassing Pylos and Pylos - Methoni. With regard to the Good Water-Tsacon road axis and after taking account of the work of the Road Infrastructure Directorate, because we had a project transfer in relation to the Ministry's internal organisation, the competent managing authority was asked for the inclusion and funding of the "REGEN", including the project of advisor to support the Road Infrastructure Directorate for the preparation of a cost-benefit study and the application for confirmation of financial assistance for the project "Manufacture of the Good Water-Tsacon motorway" as a public project of estimated remuneration of 60,000,000 euros. It has also been requested from the respective until before competent service to the EEAE Construction of Projects under a concession agreement for the Peloponnese and Northern Greece all the studies carried out and for the section of Good Water - Tsakon Road Axis Patras - Tower to prepare the service for the announcement of the necessary additional studies. Now in relation to the Kalamata perimeter route, there is the assessment of the service is that the Kalamata perimeter route will be completed within seven months of the relaunch of the concession contract for the construction and financing of the motorway, i.e. Moreas. At this time we are negotiating, as you know. We have put a number of specific requests to the concessionaires that we have in order to amend the five concessions we have. The previous government proposal has been adopted by the Court of Auditors, but this does not mean that our government is committed to following the same logic as the revisions made a year and a half ago. Since it was heard by Mr. Augiakis before as a reproach, he had a year and a half ago for the four motorways we are expected to finish in December 2015. There is no possibility of ending in December 2015 and not only with the responsibility of the Greek State, but also with the concessionaire. It was known to everyone that in this period of time, when it was voted in the Greek Parliament that it was ending in December 2015, it would not end. We are not going to go to such a logic to do with the work of the government's communication policy and say dates that will never apply. What we are looking at is to relieve the work of weights and end the expropriations, the archaeology and all the issues with which the Greek State is charged and free of charge the works, so that we can make a negotiation for the benefit of Greek society and development to go ahead with the Kalamata perimeter road and Kalamata - Sparta road.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Minister. The rest of you will say in the dentext, which is also - because, if I am not mistaken, it was one of the three questions - I would like to hear the timetable, Minister. Although I gave you two and a half more minutes, I didn't hear a schedule. Mr. Petrakos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u125	That's right, Mr. President. First of all, it is very important and I am glad that you have predicted the money to complete the studies at Rizzomlos - Pylos - Sulinari. In the two large projects concerning and of interest to the Messinia, however, as we have said, the Good Water - Chacona must be known which specific studies are missing, which must be quickly completed. So you need to see how you speed up the procurement process and when it is over. You must give us a specific timetable so that the project can be carried out. Because you are well aware that this particular road, which is of great development importance to the Messinia, is a difficult road. Therefore, we need to carry out the specific study that exists and move on to rebuild the Good Water-Tsacon project in order to allow access to Western Messinia as well, but towards Western Greece, to make it much easier for Messinia. That's very important. I would also like in your dentext, Minister, to specify exactly where the case of the revision of the contract with the company "MOREA S.A." lies. Who are the thorns still? What is the European Investment Bank asking for at the moment, for example? What do concessionaires want? The government at which point of compromise can it reach? When do you estimate that this procedure will be completed? Why did you say "seven months after the start", but the question is: When will the start be? That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, Mr Petrakos, in the previous question I said a personal commitment: I will not be a Suffle. So as long as we have this institutional framework - work, there is no way I can tell you about virtual timetables. Because with this institutional framework - work that exists, to tell you that it will end a 'then' project, it must be either a cardboard machine or a wizard. That part I'm not gonna play. In the answers I have given you, there are concrete actions for these few months that we are government, which show that we are really doing these projects that we have already committed ourselves to going ahead with the studies and that their construction has been carried out in order to predict the studies, to complete what has been started or to find funding and to carry out studies that are not mature. In relation to Morea, I have given answers to Parliament several times. Two kinds of negotiations must take place here: one with the concessionaire and one - in my opinion - debate with the European Investment Bank and the European Commission. As you know, there is one issue - and it was also raised in the previous government - for all concessions and for Moreas that we have a reduction in the revenues of concessions. This therefore makes it difficult for the banks involved in concessions, particularly the European Investment Bank, which finances these projects in the form of loans. So we need to find a way to secure the European Investment Bank. This does not mean, however, that it will, in my opinion, also involve private banks, which must be at risk. That was the first issue. Secondly, they ask for 330 million additives until the project ends. At today's prices it is EUR 90 million, and what we are negotiating with this concession and the others, are specific points that need to be changed. In other words, a uniform electronic analogue kilometre system must be installed for users to have a fairer distribution of tolls. We are calling for the tolls to be reduced and for indicators to be taken into account, taking into account the country's social and economic situation. That's to know that's a long time and it can't be done right away. So, if the concessionaires agree, it can be a matter that will go in the future, so that a negotiation with the European Commission and the private banks can take place. We call for the free passage of citizens, not least on the border of their municipality, which is a very big issue. We also ask for free passages or special charges for those who live a mile from their permanent residence to their work and for the free passage of our fellow citizens belonging to special categories, such as the AMEs. And, obviously, we are asking for the suspension of persecution to those who have in the past reacted to this policy. These, therefore, if they are satisfied either by all concessions or by a group of concessions - a geographical group - they will come to the Greek Parliament with absolute transparency in order to vote or to reject them. But if these basics are not accepted, obviously we too are obliged to respect the conventions we have inherited from the previous government. So, Morea's too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u128	If you allow me, Mr President, I would only like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u129	All right, Mr. Petrako, let me give you 30 seconds. I'm not even putting the timer on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u130	I think that this subject you said, the cessation of criminal prosecutions of citizens - who were fighting against the excessive prices of tolls imposed, but also on tolls which are actually going nowhere, have stopped - is very important. I would ask you to look at this because citizens are now being called upon to pay a great deal of money for persecution, for sues, which have been done for tolls. I think it is very important and you should help in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u131	I assume that both the Minister and you are saying that the lifting of prosecutions and not the intervention of the executive in judiciary will be an initiative of justice. It is because they are in fact being kept to clarify these. Once again, I will ask you what the private banks are. Because I have heard the minister appointed, Mr. Stathakis, saying, "There are no private banks. The majority of the State shall have it.’ Mr. Kaklamanis does not mean that he is Mr. Kaklamanis' bank. So why take risks and not the European Investment Bank? I say now as a Eurosceptic. Thank you for your presence. The time comes for my dear colleague and friend, Maria Kanellopoulou, with the fourth with number 413/7-2015, a topical question for the second cycle, as MP Achaias of SYRIZA, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the reintroduction of the law on the single price of the book. Congratulations on the right question, Mrs. Canellepoulou. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it's not too late than never. I'm glad you're here today to hear our question. Minister, the measure of the single book price was implemented in our country in accordance with the model of the French Lang Act, under Law 2557/1997. This law provides that each book title issued, re-issued or re-printed is to be sold at the same retail price from all retail outlets for two years. As you know, he was abolished by the Minister of the Samara Memorandum Government, Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis, with Mr. 4254/2014 that favours the financial interests of stores and supermarkets with power for all categories of books, except literary, despite the intense reactions of counterpopulation and aggregation of the book world, even ignoring international experience. The OECD report on this subject was another tragic, neoliberal, among the many things that have been done. This measure weakens pluralism and is a wound to education, culture, but mainly to the Greek book, endangering even the copyright of authors, a sector that, as you know, faces a number of problems, such as tax, pensions, insurance, access to health structures, etc. The measure therefore led to small local bookshops, which were the centres of culture in particular in the province, facing serious economic problems and directly threatened with closure, not being able to respond to unfair competition from supermarkets, monopolistic centres, stores and online sales. The reintroduction of the single book price will correct the injustice that has been done in the book’s fragile, in which we owe too much. The need for pluralist, pluralist production and disposal is absolutely essential. After all, the single book price is a standard in European space and is valid in six of the ten countries with the highest percentage of books purchased. Several Anglo-Saxon countries also consider the reintroduction of the measure, due to the great blow by bookshops from supermarkets and the internet. That is because the abolition of the n. 2557/1997 brought a major blow to the publication of a book, particularly of quality, and because of the country's bookshops and provincials - those which have not already been closed - are threatened with closure, with what this implies, we wonder if you intend to reintroduce the single book price law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u133	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u134	I would like to thank Mrs Canellopoulou for the question on a subject which is very sensitive and very important to the whole industry. As you know, the reintroduction of the single price or the continuation of today's n. 4254/2014, is an object of the negotiations, which are currently evolving with lenders, as it falls under toolbox I and partly under toolbox II of the OECD, which is also the subject of the discussion. To date, experience of the application of the 2014 Act has failed, at least on the basis of statistical data, with regard to its main objective, which was to reduce book prices. At least on the basis of the statistics we have so far from ELSTAT, the index of consumer prices, which relates to this category, books, shows an average reduction of 2.4% on average. From the beginning of 2015 to June, i.e. in the first half of 2015 there is no change in the prices of books. So there is a statistical given as to the application of this law in relation to its main objective, which is to reduce the price of books at least for the most important category released on the market, which is the literary book. This remains under the single price system. The second argument, which we are trying to make directly, concerns the purpose of the legislation. The OECD recognises three purposes for regulating book prices: promoting the production of a variety of categories of books, the existence of many bookshops and the promotion of reading in society. The single price, in relation to these three objectives, is obviously a mechanism that allows projects to be published for smaller markets or special readers. If it is abolished, authors addressing a smaller audience face difficulties in publishing their work and the entire market is pushed in a more commercial direction, with significant side effects on publishing activity itself, as well as on the production of scientific books, while at the same time having huge implications for replacing small bookshops with the creation and risk of supermarkets or large chains for renting. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The third thing we have - I will need another minute, Mr President - is Europe's mixed experience. As you know, France, Germany, Spain and Denmark maintain the single book price. It does not apply to countries such as the United Kingdom, Sweden and Finland. In conclusion, therefore, it is a matter for negotiation. We all recognise - and there is now a common basis - that these results are undeniable. We know the results where it has been implemented for many, many years, such as the United Kingdom. It basically led to the disappearance of all independent bookshops, to their substitution by two very large chains, which dominated the market and then to the replacement of these companies themselves that dominated the market by an electronically developed company. It is therefore an issue on which we insist and seek to find the best possible solution in the context of the negotiations. I would like to point out, however, that during the period - and this can be corrected - there were several ambiguities in the law, which are repaired and improved. I am thinking of how many publications it is possible to maintain the single price and when the coverage of the law is stopped - which has also had many problems - for market surveillance purposes, in order not to prevent the targeting of the single price that we all share here as being multiplicity and pluralism in the project publication and the maintenance and maintenance of the retail network, which is the shopkeeper of the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u135	Mrs. Kanellepoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Minister, for the answer. All those involved in the book with a recent memorandum - I imagine that you have received it and studied it - point to the fact that the reintroduction of the single book price is a measure that excludes unfair competition practices in the books industry in Greece, while at the same time strengthening your small businesses, provincial, district bookshops for example, which are undoubtedly part of the backbone of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which, as far as I know is concerned, is within your plans and objectives, namely the strengthening of small entrepreneurship. In addition, I would like to say that we have in this period a reduction in the production of securities by about 30%, mainly in study titles and testimonies. I think, Minister, that this is a very serious matter for the situation and for the period we are going through. Immediately, we need counter-factual measures and we will insist on the reopening of the single book price, not in the way it may have existed. There can be improvements, because the issue of increased VAT now needs to be addressed. Along with everything comes VAT 23% on books production services, which leads to an increase in production costs of about 16%. You realise that this 23% process, among other things, will make the overall system for returning VAT to a number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the area even more bureaucratic, for example in bookshops or printing units, so that several of them will put a padlock on, that is, the whole area of the book is in great turbulence, Minister. In today's difficult situation for the wide folk layers, I think it is a huge responsibility for the Left, the Left Government, to strengthen culture, which has been severely affected over the past five years. I would just remind you that the Prime Minister of Greece, Alexis Tsipras, as Chief of Antipopulation at the great protest event that had taken place to abolish the law of the single price of the book, had intervened with his natural presence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u137	The theatre "Acropolis".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u138	...at the "Acropolis" theatre, which were you, Mr. President, as far as I remember. I understand the difficulties of negotiating. I get it all. It would be a good thing, at least in those things that no longer have huge budgetary costs, that we are going to get rid of the circumstances and that we stand up to our pre-election commitments. I expect many of you, Minister, or we will be against whatever position you are, or whether I am, which the future holds for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u139	Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to say that I am very interested in this. Of course, I congratulate you, because you are one of the ministers you answer. In order to remember Zabeta's song, you told us the answer a little as a 'catched Monday'. But you should know that there are others from other wings that are in favour of this view. Do you know why I remember that? Because it was in the OECD's prerequisites that I did not vote and were deleted from my party. I'm interested in hearing the answer. You'll have help from elsewhere, not just from your likes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that for the partial deregulation of the book market - I repeat, literature does not fall into this category - we have strong reservations. We will probably agree on the consequences that have been recorded by this experience in other countries. Obviously, this is our approach to negotiation on this issue these days. At the same time, I think it must be clear that low VAT on books has remained and that is a significant development. The book remained at 6.5%, despite the fact that, for example, the cost of production has increased and some services are affected. That must be clear to everyone. However, maintaining low VAT on books is a positive development.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Minister. We close today's sitting with the second in order question to Mr Stathakis, who is the eleventh question under number 356/16-6-2015, a topical question by the Member of the Messinia Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the compulsory registration in the invoices of discounts and other possible supplies of suppliers to the supermarkets. The wording here is a little bizarre, but Mr Petrakos will develop the question and we will all understand what he means. Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you also know very well, as the entire Greek people know, that products in Greece are more expensive than the same products in the rest of Europe. And the world wonders why this great accuracy, when the accuracy today is a very serious matter, given that for five years the purchasing power of the Greek people has been dramatically reduced, so that the products that could be purchased some years ago cannot be purchased. In this situation industrialists show supermarkets and commercial companies show industrialists. In my opinion, following a serious investigation that I have done for some time, and as I can see, the problem lies in the existing framework of cooperation between suppliers and retail chains, which is opaque and no government so far, even though many ministers have announced it, have not dared to change it. Transparency is the fact that tariffs do not include discounts made by suppliers in retail chains and especially in supermarkets. Although the contracts concluded by the two parties refer to the benefits, i.e. the discounts that suppliers undertake to make, they do not appear in the invoices. These provisions do not appear in the invoices because they are made, first, by tariffs for the provision of services for preferential promotion and promotion of products, namely placement on the shelf, multiple codes and new codes, second, by credit notes, third, in additional free quantities of products and other forms. These are essentially gifts made by production companies in shops under the agreement or a better place of products on the shelf. These gifts don't look anywhere. I can assure you that in foods, for example, these discounts start from around 15% to 30%. They are similar to other basic products. So the questions raised, Mr Minister, are as follows: First of all, does the Ministry intend to proceed with legislation, which takes the view that all benefits not included in the invoices described in the contracts between suppliers and supermarkets are unlawful? And, secondly, will the Ministry legislate on compulsory invoices for discounts and other possible benefits for suppliers to the supermarkets? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u143	Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mr. Petrakos, turn off your phone, because by accident, when you're talking, the minutes will not be well written. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u144	Mr Petrakos raises an important issue, which concerns the general admission of increased prices in many kinds of supermarket, compared with other European countries. The causes are a lot. One of the possible causes, however, concerns the pricing and the rules governing the marketing and marketing of such goods. As you are well aware, the current legislative framework clearly specifies the indication of prices in the invoices issued, with the elements of a number of factors perfectly clear: quantity, value, quality, origin, name and other provisions and, in addition, the country of origin, if this is a country outside the European Union. Furthermore, it is clear that the discounts granted on the invoice, percentages or financially or in kind, as well as the valuation of the promotional actions, should appear on the sales invoices issued in such a way that the final actual selling price of each product or commodity is obtained. In one part, therefore, the law is clear. All discounts and promotional actions included in a transaction must be reflected on the invoice. There is, however, a second category, which concerns the more specific trade agreements between suppliers and their customers for the provision of additional financial benefits, in addition to the discounts granted to them on the basis of what I have said earlier. These benefits are trade agreements relating to the achievement of specific sales objectives at fixed intervals - quarterly, semester, annually - the promotion of specific items, etc. It is therefore valued by the nature of this particular trade agreement after the issue of the sales invoices and is granted by means of the publication of the famous ‘credit notes’ with service invoices. Here, the law and the legal framework raise two issues. The first point raised is that there is control over this procedure, namely whether the law, the distinction between the two categories, and not abuse of one category at the expense of the other. The second issue raised is whether the law on more specific trade agreements is clear enough. I would remind you that before 2013 these agreements were sent to the Secretary-General's confidential protocol. The supplier was also obliged within three days to send the agreement to the retailer by e-mail in order to make it possible to cross-check these elements. Our aim is to see this issue as a whole in both the control and the clarification of the legal framework regarding the second category. I repeat that there can be no legal vacuum. We need to make an intervention, in fact by improving the system, in order to clarify what belongs to the first category and what belongs to the second category. At the same time we must protect the imprinting of the actual final price on the invoice from possible misuse of trade agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Petrako, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you know and understand that this issue is much more important today, even after the first package of memoranda of measures in the new agreement, which will increase due to VAT too many products. I therefore think that you should proceed with a strict legislation, but also control, as you said, so as to reduce prices. It is very important at today's juncture that the government show political will and determination so that Greek citizens see the price cuts in the supermarket. Firstly, I have to say to you - of course, you know - that in the above percentages we have to add extra benefits. In other words, for example, large multinational chains go on to extra benefits if they have large turnovers, etc. Secondly, it is well known - and I think you can see it from the Ministry's Services - that there is a particular company of sugar products, which has stopped this type of benefit a while ago and the prices of the products in question have decreased by 30% -60%. The result will be for supermarkets to be forced to calculate their profit from a lower base and lower prices on the shelf by 20% - 30%. If compulsory labelling is applied, sales will not be reduced. On the other hand, they will increase because they will be able to obtain more products. You also know very well that last year - and to be precise, a year and a half ago - the then Minister of Finance, Mr Stournaras, and the then State Secretary for Development, Mr. Skordas, promised that they would legislate so that this story can be closed, but it never happened. I therefore think that, in order to deal with the problem effectively, first of all, there should be compulsory registration on the invoices of all kinds of supplies received from the supermarkets from the major industries, whether they are called sales rates, whether they are called tenders or otherwise said, in order to show the actual prices at which the products are purchased. Secondly, there should be a specific tax on these supplies in industry, because these are nothing but overcompensations in combination with the first proposal I have said before. Thirdly, there should be control over the legality of these supplies combined with the two previous proposals and, of course, above all, of course, as you have said, on the implementation of both existing laws and those that you must bring and legislate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u147	Minister, I give you the floor for dentistry and, if you have been informed, tell us how many suppliers have sent them the information requested from your Secretariat-General within three days. It is interesting to see how many people, because they are in line with what Mr Petrakos said. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u148	I don't have the analytical evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u149	Okay. I said if you had them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u150	You can imagine and I imagine there's an obvious arrhythmia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u151	And appreciate your face. I say this out of curiosity, to see how much Greeks respond, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u152	I think we should agree and commit to three things, which are data. Firstly, we need to strengthen the legislative framework after consulting the relevant bodies, secondly, with regard to the control mechanisms, especially at this stage of the market and the competition committee, we need to strengthen and accelerate the control procedures and, thirdly, we need to raise perhaps in a better way than at any time in the past the functioning of consumer organisations active in related issues and which can be an supreme ally in a process of restoring transparency and price restraint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u153	The topical and urgent debate is closed. After thanking the Minister for his presence, the honourable Members and the Members who have helped the Bureau, ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we should resolve the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-27-S1-commons.u154	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.50' the sitting on Thursday, July 30, 2015, at 9.30', on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a statement of petitions and a debate on topical and urgent questions.
