ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to read the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday, 13 July 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Maria Kanellopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the reintroduction of the law on the single price of the book. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 419/7-2015 by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the completion of the work of the Heraklion - Messara road network. 3. Mr Nikolaos Orphanou asked the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the treatment of unemployment in the ship repair area of Perama. 4. The Question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the ferry connection of the islands of the northern Aegean with northern Greece. 5. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the maritime reunification of Patras with Kefalonia and Ithaca. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 412-7-2015 by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Ilias Kamaterou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the saturated tourist areas and inequalities in development. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios State, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the grant of a route link between Samothraki and the main mainland Greece and the Aegean islands. 3. Mr Georgios Amyras, Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Amyras, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the need for an immediate solution to the problems of in-cyclical ferry services during a tourist season. 4. The Question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the financing programme and operation of the children's stations. 5. Athanasios Papachristopoulos (Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction) asked Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos about the interventions for the renewal of the Area of Mars. 6. The question by No. 395/29-6-2015 of the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nicholas Kotzias during his visit to Skopje on 24-6-2015. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 391/29-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the work of the ERGOSE Tunnel. 8. The Question No 401/30-6-2015 by MP Rethymnon of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of National Defence on the requirements of lenders for cuts in expenditure in the Armed Forces. 9. The Question No 386/23-6-2015 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "measures to address the asymmetrical threat due to the imperial invasion of illegal immigrants on the Greek islands". 10. The Question No 377/23-6-2015 by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the progress of important infrastructure projects in Messinia, such as the Good Water-Tsakonia projects and the perimeter of Kalamata Kalamata - Rizzomylos. 11. The Question No 356/16-6-2015 by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the compulsory invoices of discounts and other possible benefits of suppliers to the supermarkets. 12. The question by No. 219/14-5-2015 is a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the provocative action of Skopje in Florina. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 234/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on bilateral relations with the neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. 14. Observed. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the Skopje". 15. The 361/16-6-2015 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on measures to restore intra-cyclical maritime communication. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 1116/24/03-2015 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "AYDINLIK" that "Turkey proceeded to a committee for the vindication of sixteen Greek islands". Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First we will discuss the third with number 390/26-6-2015 timely question of the first cycle of the Athens MP Mr.Georgios Amyras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the timely dispatch of the assent of the Ministry's Services to conclude the agreed concessions of the use of the Aegean Sea and the beach between the municipalities and third parties. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Mr. Amyras has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Hello, Minister. I have the feeling that as long as the weeks and months pass and you are being bred into your government duties and I in Parliament will meet here every week to discuss environmental issues. The question, therefore, of the timely question I tabled on 26 June is about the malfunctions of the Ministries' Services, which have malfunctions - of course, what is it and what impact they have - are causing a reduction of revenues in local government, with the central axis of the country's beaches. Do the beaches of the country, of course, have - how do I say it? - a huge added value and cultural and environmental above all tourists. However, they also have an economic value assessment when the municipalities grant third parties their use for rent recovery. What's going on here? And I come - to be specific - on three occasions. There are wonderful beaches such as Balos, Elafonisi, Pahia Ammos in the Municipality of Kissamos in Chania. In order for the municipality to grant them to a private person, it was required by your Ministry to reply, dated 31 May, as to whether or not their use could be granted to third parties, because they belong to the NATURA network. Your Ministry for these three beaches - which are indicative, I have many more - responded on 29 June, that is, one month after the state itself had set a limit for the services of your Ministry to respond to the municipalities if they are given the consent to proceed with the concession of the use of these beaches. What's the result? That, from now on, the contract is signed between the private and not the municipality, but the Public Property Agency and loses the municipality that grants the use, that is, it receives 50% of the revenue and not 70%, as laid down in the legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the state tells the municipalities - and I shall finish immediately, Mr President - that, in order to give you my assent to give you the use of beaches to third parties, I shall have to reply to you by a date. It does not respond to this date and the consequences are borne solely by the municipalities. I would therefore ask you, Minister, why was there not a timely mission to the municipalities of your Ministry's assent, and if you intend to proceed with the extension of the final date that has already expired - I would mention the case of the Municipality of Platanias - so that the municipalities have the time to take the necessary steps to avoid losing the rents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be strict in time, because this morning all the parliamentary groups are in a meeting, and we must all be in this duty as well. So, please, keep the time tight. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, your request is really timely, but, of course, we need to look at things in their essence, because otherwise we will not understand the problem. In fact this year, on 4 April the KYA, which comes out every year to grant the beaches and there was an amendment on 12 April to the KYA in question, precisely because some necessary corrections had to be made. For the NATURA regions, it obviously also provides for examination by our Ministry, and the reason is understandable, and it is a matter of substance. So, for the specific beaches you're talking about, yes, as you say, it was from April, but they had shortcomings and mistakes. They had coordinate shortages or incomprehensible coordinates and our Services had to communicate with the municipalities. So to us, that is to say to the Office, we actually have requests, as far as I can see, on 15-5 for the Municipality of Platania and the final assent left on 19-5, signed by the Directorate to come to our service. In the Municipality of Kissamos there was a corresponding delay due to a lack of data that had not been sent - they were very uncompromising and were not recorded on the maps - because there must be coordinates. So, basically, the Counselor's assent came on 27-5 and came to our services, i.e. to check our own Ministry on that date. Already, that is, there was a huge delay. Now to talk about things when we talk about these beaches, don't imagine just two beaches. Right now, from my department in the Ministry, five hundred beaches have passed. In other words, in the time you are referring to, we had to look at these hundreds of cases on the substance, draw up minutes and make conditions. What does "conditions" mean? Other beaches are allowed to be sailing, jet ski, on others are not allowed because there are protected objects. On other beaches music is allowed, in others music is not allowed. If you see such an assent, it is three - four pages, one which must be examined by the Agency and seen on this beach if these conditions exist or if these are not there. It is not a formal procedure: "He came to the Ministry and signed for a beach." We need to have a picture of these beaches. In addition, I should like to stress that despite my struggling effort to sign and not really leave people on the road, I have accepted fire - and indeed through the electronic press - from ecological organisations for six to seven beaches, that I should not normally have given permission because my control was incomplete and that I should normally refuse. We have denied less than forty beaches for such reasons. So we have to understand that the public administration here has exaggerated itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Thank you very much. Mr Amyras has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I know these beaches very well. I know that it is essential to monitor by your Ministry the possibility of using these beaches or not. Especially the ones I mentioned I've shown them from "Measure Greece", I've also gone as a camper, are beaches that I love and know them. But the question is what happens next year. Again, will we be on a dashboard of bureaucracy and sending letters, which are not on time or in due course? Can there not be an electronic system that, of course, not just before the beaches are granted, is activated to see whether the habitat has really changed, there are weaknesses, there are balances for the new ones to be observed? In any case, what will be the way to ensure that every year the LAGs, the Local Government agencies, know which beaches can go ahead for rent and which are not? And since the debate has brought this to light - because here we are talking about the malfunctioning of the public, the malfunctioning of many and the government - last night, then, the draft law on negotiation was tabled, the authorisation of the Prime Minister to conclude the negotiations with the partners, and the text has come to English. Of course, we know English and we read it, but I wonder what will happen. The President of Parliament writes manuscripts: 'Let all Members be informed, there is no translation of the text, to be filed'. Are we going to discuss today at 14.00 a.m. on a text that has been tabled in English? Is that how we understand the functioning of public administration? Of course, Mr Lafazani's signature is missing. What for? Do you know where you're at the same ministry? Why has he not signed the request for authorisation? These, of course, have nothing to do with the beaches. They are, however, related to the substance of the case, i.e. how public administration meets its obligations and tasks. That is what I have to say and I am shorter, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u8	I will not reply, of course, because I do not know that - I have not spoken to my colleague Mr Lafazani - because he is missing or missing his signature and where he is. So ask him. It is not about today's debate. I understand that we are in an emergency right now, but I will return to the subject. You are quite right, when I was informed in mid-May and started signing beaches, I understood this absurdity that we received. And the irrationality was intensified. To understand what we're talking about right now, instead of being a Biodiversity Division, the Biodiversity Division has been subsided into a Department. There is a department, which had to have thirty employees and only fourteen, of which basically because we had some departures, were eleven. So these eleven people are dealing with the whole NATURA network in Greece, whether they are called bodies, who must give assent, whether they are called beaches or dozens of more important issues, such as the presidential decree down in Kyparissia, because that is where we have and we are employing people. It is the presidential decree of Olympus, etc. For example, I'm telling you. So when people in this Chamber are constantly reproducing the idea of a 'big state', I here call, at least as far as my own ministry is concerned, that the 'big state' they mean does not exist at the moment, has broken it up, and the private sector is being severely affected. Because it is brutally affected, because the private sector wants permission, it wants clean rules in town, it wants all that we cannot offer, because we do not have people to offer them. We work on the approval of towns with seven engineers for all over Greece and with thirteen other engineers for the Athens and Thessaloniki metropolitans. Is it possible to work this way for so many hundreds of municipalities? So I mention a hot issue. With regard to how we will cure it, I think that I really should - and I have suggested - of the year, now that I too have the experience - these posters to the municipalities, that is, the circular to come out before, in the fall, and not to come out for just one year. Going out for two years, three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u9	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u10	Should the beaches at the "DIAGYY" in Genaris be posted, so that for two months, until the end of February, all ecological organisations can present observations - at this time when they will be submitted? - that, at the end of February, we should know what the problem is, what the problem is, and we need to do something more, where there are objections, to speak with the local community, to consult. Why otherwise what 'NATURA' are we talking about? What is the point of NATURA? Just come to me with a signature that gives me half an hour to sign for a hundred beaches? Because they give me so much! They're bringing me a package. Where am I going to see these beaches? And yet, I tell you, we exaggerated ourselves. I'm telling you these heroes, eleven people, managed and handled all the coordinates, all the objections to all these beaches. I don't think there could be anything better going on this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. It will now be discussed the third with number 381/23-6-2015 topical question of the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the fire in the recycling plant in Aspropyrgos. The Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Ioannis Tsironis. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, despite the fact that some time has passed since this particular incident, we consider the subject of the current question to be still topical and extremely serious, and because there has so far been no restoration of the consequences of the fire, but because - as is currently the case in Aspropyrgos and more generally in the region of Triasios, with dozens of businesses in a similar situation - the risk of having a similar or even greater degree of accidents is neglected at all. There are currently complaints, which have been made by the relevant departments, both the Region and the Ministry, about waste management operations - now 'waste management' - that either operate without permission or even if they are licensed, it is not respected and serious excesses have been made in respect of environmental conditions. They are enterprises that operate with unskilled staff operating at cheap labour, which cannot manage the specific circumstances in detail. On the basis of the latter incident, there was also a lack of risk prevention and control by adequate personnel, instruments, lack of procedures and infrastructure, a plan of emergency situations and public information. The most characteristic case is the fact of oligoria, both on the part of the Government and on the part of the Region, to deal with suppression. While it is known that for such cases the most suitable method is that of attachment, which is the best method and practice, which accelerates damping and significantly reduces burning mass. This has not been done in this particular case, so that we have the known consequences, with the fire burning for days and with the known results. That is why we are asking ourselves: why not take all necessary steps to deal with fire and protect public health? We are asking what measures will be taken immediately so that there can be a restoration from the consequences of the fire, which have not been eliminated because the waste that has been burnt remains there. There must also be immediate closure, removal of unauthorised enterprises, in order to prevent similar accidents in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u15	I will not disagree at all with your concerns, Mr Papoutsis. In fact, the situation we are seeing at the moment in Aspropyrgos and elsewhere is literally dramatic. I will only mention the example for which I have the full information here, namely that of this company. This company had repeatedly been accused of infringements by environmental inspectors, lately in 2011, which was too hard and I am tabling the full practice here. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Here in 2011, then, the inspectors - those fewer inspectors who are ten across the south and four in the northern environment sector, who too are few, do a massive and difficult task and do not even have any minus inspectors, as they should normally have, and while their materials are only taken from the EPEA, because there are no such materials in the state budget, as well as their travels, and we will have a huge problem, when the programme is over at the end of the year, to mention these problems - they had submitted a study and on the basis of the FEK on 14 June 2013 normally this company should have closed down or had to have made drastic intervention and it should have had to have had an emergency plan. So while this company or contingency plan has never submitted, as it should have been from GDP, and it should have been closed for this reason alone, and while there were violations and they were filed with the prosecutor, as I have already said here in Parliament, not only have the inspectors yet been summoned for the criminal track, but the company, in the file I submitted just now in the Minutes, has also received two extra extensions and this company has been rewarded! This is the reality at the moment of a public administration of the past, which I hope we will all be together to fight this public administration, which rewarded illegality. Because there are these minutes. The company had not even done the fire extinguisher, and the public administration had to check at that time, but did not check the fire extinguisher, which was not there, from what it proved to be in the accident. As far as soil is concerned, I should like to end with this clarification, because this is what we must fight and heal. The soil was finally not the proper method for the area and it turns out now. If we had thrown soil - which we should not have, because I placed the soil, but Mr Serentello happily refused - at the moment, instead of having sixty thousand tonnes, which is a mass that needs to be removed from there - and I will tell you the time that will be done - we would have five times the amount of toxic, which should have been placed there together with the soil, if we had thrown soil. The correct method is the one followed, i.e. erasing and, at the moment, continuous retraction is taking place with bulldozers and water falls. At the moment we are in the phase of one of these volumes to testify to what kind of waste is and we hope that the first measurements will not be toxic so that it can go to the Gender so that, when it is stirred and mixed with water, it will go to the Gender and there will be the process with the soil you mentioned. We're at this stage, and we're waiting for the final measurements from S.H.I.E.L.D. It's a battle that's being fought right now. It's a constant battle, it's not erasing, because if you leave it there, it's still going to light this, slowly. It's obvious. If you go over there - because I went the other day - the bulldozers work all the time, they stir and throw water. We are waiting for the OK of the UNHCR for the type of waste so that at best and in the cheaper - fortunately from what I see the first measurements are optimistic - it can go to the Race and be buried there as urban waste and not as dangerous toxic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u17	Minister, I am obviously not an expert on this matter. However, the experts - at least those with whom we have contacted - claim that in the first phase what was urgent was to erase the fire in order not to infect the atmosphere, not to affect the health of the inhabitants, not to affect the food chain and all that. What they were saying was that in this particular case, what had to be done was to be fixed up and, of course, from there on, we should see the question of its transport and movement - in any case - and, in any case, what was to be done. But look to see: Here is a more general theme. I'm telling you again: it's not the only business. Obviously, you do not have the responsibility for what happened in previous years. But you have a responsibility now. At the moment we are talking about, there are dozens of businesses whose data, if you like, we can give them to you - the regional consultants that our party has, etc. have also reported in the opposite region. - and operating under similar conditions, i.e. without a licence or, if there is a licence, it is not kept and overrun. We would therefore like the Ministry to have liked it this time and it is not a little - it is a very important time - to tell us not only what has not happened in the past, but also what controls have taken place, how many companies have closed down, how many companies have been removed. At the moment, really - we don't say it overreacted, so - the Triumph is a nuclear bomb. It is a nuclear bomb ready at any time to explode, because we are talking about businesses, which other flammable materials, which may be adjacent to fuel-managed enterprises. Triumph is a nuclear bomb and may at any time become accidents of a similar or larger extent. So what we would like to see is direct information, how many companies have been checked, how many companies have been removed. Don't you have any staff? Of course, we know that there is indeed no staff and that these people who exist, the incomplete staff that exist, in terms of self-sacrificingness and with great honesty are trying. But there's something to be done here that needs to be hired. But what's wrong with him? It runs counter to the constant commitment to fiscal adjustment and discipline, which, in view of the latest developments, will become more stringent in the next period. That is what we are waiting for and what specific plan there is, in order to carry out controls, to remove businesses which do not function on the basis of the standards to be followed, to hire staff, to comply with labour legislation and to provide staff who work in these undertakings and to have safety measures - which do not exist - to deal with, to reduce risks. I shall now conclude, Mr President. You also come from the field of ecology and we - you know - do not question anyone's sensitivity to these issues in particular. But there is one conclusion, which is that the protection of the environment and at the same time the pursuit of business profits cannot go together. They can't go together! Even the best intentions are to have measures to protect the environment, when business profits are in the middle, then these are the consequences. And we are turning to the point in a method that we consider to be very important, the recycling method for waste management, to be a tragedy - in fact - when business, capitalist profit is in the middle. This is a more general conclusion and, in our view, shows us where the demand for the people should be directed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u19	I would agree with you on the first part that, if we do not have an adequate control mechanism - which we do not have at this time, because I say again that we are talking about ten inspectors in southern Greece and four inspectors in northern Greece (North and South), that is to say, a irony, there is not so many hundreds of activities, small or large, private or public sectors, large or small businesses to be controlled by these people. From there on, there are exactly the delays in imposing administrative fines or in judiciary, which are really a huge delay, as I have told you. When the judicial authority has not invited our inspectors to a breach certified in 2011, you understand what is happening. And that's not just the case you're talking about. The same applies to forest infringements. The same is true of building infringements that, in order for an inspector to be able to testify to an infringement and it must end up, which means finally having a cure, a penalty, a demolition and whatever else it is, this man must be drawn to court as a witness and to go to sin and lose hundreds of hours of work, so that he can go to trials that are postponed or delayed. So we're talking about a reality that we won't change in a week or we can't promise. I will, however, disagree with you that the final and compulsory profit must be taken fatally that it is also a disaster for the environment. Like you have made this complaint to me, I have complaints and even recorded - which, if you like, I can show them to you, but I do not have them here with me, because it was not the subject of the timely question - from serious operators - in the area of battery recycling - which is something very dangerous, which keeps the terms and manage the battery plastic, the management of the air and liquid pollutants that are too dangerous and, of course, are also recovering the lead through the battery. While they do not do tax evasion, they have hundreds of workers, they employ healthy staff, they are perfectly legitimate, but they are in danger of being closed down by unfair air-tight competition. So it is not perfect that anyone who is an entrepreneur will necessarily be a destroyer of the environment. So this healthy entrepreneurship, in the conditions of the market economy we live in, capitalism - and I may ideologically disagree with you - is being closed down because of the others you mentioned very well, who live in impunity and impunity. This is unfortunately the reality and it is the case that we are going to fight. And we're committed to doing the works. We already have a working group on seeing which other auditors can frame our inspectors. There is pressure to be private auditors. I think you do not share the view. I'm just as vigilant as I am. But at the moment, we will fight with the tools that the state has given us and we will slowly look at changing the institutional system and speeding up justice. It's not just up to me and you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. The second question will then be discussed under number 388/24-6-2015 of the first cycle of the Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the detection of toxic pesticides in samples taken in apple orchards in Imathia, Corinth and Arcadia. The Deputy Minister, Mr Panagiotis Sguridis, responds. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Minister, high-toxic pesticide traces were found on samples taken at apple orchards in Imathia, Corinth and Arcadia. Prohibited chemicals, carcinogenic and toxic, shall be used as a thorn and without any control over fruit crops throughout the territory, contaminating the land and the aquifer. Products of the known company ‘MONSANTO’, which has a well-established past in the use of toxic and dangerous public health ingredients, sow death and place Greek products out of competition, making them unsuitable for consumption. Serious questions also raise the fact that these dangerous findings were identified following sample checks carried out by Greenpeace and not by the national competent bodies responsible for the timely and valid detection of these cases. Does the Minister intend to abolish the circulation and use of synthetic chemical pesticides, which have been banned for years and have already been found to be dangerous to public health? Will it ensure that more regular and strict controls are carried out in order to detect inappropriate fruit and vegetable contamination in a timely manner and to punish the users of unsuitable and banned pesticides for example? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and for the complete respect of time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Micho for the timely question. Although fines are too large, Mr Micho, for the importation and disposal of illegal plant protection products - I would say that they are from a thousand euros, if someone is arrested, up to thirty thousand euros - these fines are doubled, confiscated these illegal products and there is imprisonment from three months to twelve months. Moreover, the producers who use these products are deprived of the aid. At the same time, producers can completely endure the programme and lose their rights. Despite the rigour of this framework, the problem is too acute, not only in Greece, but also in Europe. Unfortunately, this problem also exists in Europe. This problem is becoming more acute to us because, especially at our border, the north passes the trucks without being checked, where inside these illegal plant protection products are imported without paper. Unfortunately, there is a lack of control in this case. In particular, in Bulgaria, where there are no controls, due to the European Union, such illegal plant protection material is introduced. But this is mainly because there is an economic crisis. Unfortunately, farmers, who are in such a situation, are forced to use these products, which are illegal. Our farmers see the temporary benefit rather than the consequences. Because the consequences that exist, not only in products, but also in the ground from the use of such illegal products, are great and appear over time. What's the deal? It is the introduction of compulsory prescription. Since September 2015 it is mandatory to prescribe the medicinal products used in each crop. Checks shall be carried out by the competent committees and bodies. We are working with the customs authorities and other countries, so that we can eliminate this phenomenon. The most important thing is information. The farmer must understand that his benefit is temporary, but it is great that the damage he is causing him and the environment. If farmers understand this, then it is certain that these products will cease to be imported and traded. I think we should all deal with it in a coordinated manner. And I thank you for the timely question, because, indeed, there is illegal trafficking in such products, which harms both health and the environment and must be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, those who have been involved are very well aware of the "MONSANTO", what damage it has done in the countries of Latin America, which has sprinkled the cancer, and how many have taken the properties, how it exploits huge areas of millions of acres exclusively with soya, so that only this company and all that. In recent years there has been a very great increase in cancer in our country as well. It's too much of a diet. There is also a proverb that says "what you eat, you are". Same goes for the animal. This company has received too many complaints from individuals, as well as from GREENPEACE and other ecological organizations. All he did then was shut up - murders, blackmails and money laundering. This company's products should have been banned for years in our home country. Our territory is blessed, and I believe in the best worldwide, to cultivate what we want, and we do not need what "MONSANTO" gives us. To say it a little thicker: Pimps of the world's food have become pimps. If they want to be pimps, be where they can be in their own families. You said about drugs coming from Bulgaria and Skopje. I will add from Turkey to the islands, Rhodes to Kos and all the islands close to Turkey, which are of doubtful quality. Because it is my job - I have been working for years as a farmer and a farmer, and in recent years I have had a small business with feedingstuffs, I have been going to the place of Kopaida, I loaded clovers and corn from there and other feed - I know farmers who were telling the cafés that they were going there and they took them, not because they had a lack of money, but because they were much cheaper. They raised two farmers with a farmer in Bulgaria, loaded a ton of pesticides and brought them here, because they found them at half the price, and further below. And they said they were going and getting them out of there. You know very well that Glyphosate is a non-destructive drug, which, when it falls on the ground, moves forward and enters the aqueous horizon. This medicine has been promoted too much and sometimes the geopsies in the compounds have promoted it as an ecological medicine. First of all, you must go after the geoponics that have been promoted and are not coming out to talk, because this complaint and the controls have been carried out, as I said before Greenpeace and not by the national competent bodies. So some of them get them out of there, too. Some people are taking stock. It is not possible for us all to know what pesticides are, and for domestic bodies to do nothing. I'm putting too much responsibility on the geoponns. They'd come to my shop too because I've taken a cooperative building to promote these pesticides. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a moment, please, Mr President. When I asked them, they said 'Come on, they don't need it, let's put it there now.' I mean, it's all about profit. Afterwards, Mr Apostle had spoken of modernisation, aid for official controls and intensification of control mechanisms. With regard to the strict legislation that you have said, I agree with the imposition of high fines. But that's not all. The point is to make controls even tighter. Because, yes, the state is getting some money, but cancer continues to enter our diet. You need to do more stringent checks and fines are much larger, or these people won't mind. The punishments must also be started. If people are not punished, this will not be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u27	Mr Micho, I do not disagree with much of what you have said, just as you do not disagree with what you have heard in my prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u29	We must work in this direction in coordination, because we must protect the health of our citizens. To this end, I will tell you that a hundred and seventy-five checks have been carried out last year in a wide range of foods of the Greek market by the FIFG and it has not been found, fortunately, but in one or two cases there is also a presence of plant protection products in products of animal origin. This shows that to a certain extent the policy pursued and the information given is in the right direction. The second thing you should notice is that since September 2015 it will be mandatory for each producer before going to buy his medicines to sew or drop fertilisers, get recipes and medicines from the geoponon, which will be outside the circuit of the preparations. This is important because the signature of this geopondence will bind him. If phytosanitary losses of such products are taken, he should be responsible himself. It means that by putting his signature he commits that the medicines and fertilisers used are in line with the standards laid down by the Ministry. I come to another important issue. You said about the issue of 'MOSANTO'. I am not going to talk about this. But I will tell you that what we're going to save as a ministry is our biodiversity. And we want in every direction to maintain the Greek seeds. On the other hand, we are trying to do through the Rural Development Programme of farmers and farmers - that is, partnerships - and to grant them subsidies so that our herds are no longer fed with feed, which is traditionally Greek, namely carob, native tree, clove cannabis, which we also have in the CFP, in some way to subsidise. They are in the Ministry's thoughts, as far as agri-foodstuffs are concerned, so that we do not depend on imports from abroad for our feed. There is a huge effort in this direction. It is very short of time that we are in this position at the Ministry. We're planning this. I believe that the results will be good for Greece, for Greek biodiversity, for the Greek consumer and for the Greek farmer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Next is the first with number 405/30-6-2015 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, on the shortcomings in the Veterinary Services of the Prefecture of Itolokarnania. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Panagiotis Sguridis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u31	Minister, in a tragic situation there are thousands of farmers in the Prefecture of Etolokarna from the serious deficiencies in the nine veterinary establishments in the county, where only 12 veterinarians are serving. And we're talking about an area, about a county, where there are ten and a half thousand breeding units of ovine and caprine animals with about one and a half million animals. Also, there are three hundred bovine units with over twenty thousand animals. The veterinary services of the Law have been depopulated for several years by the necessary scientific and administrative staff. I give you typical examples, which are also in the timely question: three veterinarians are serving four hundred thousand animals in Agrinio. In the vet of Amphichia, a veterinarian serves for two hundred thousand animals. The same is true in Vonica with the corresponding number in Katouna, where no veterinarian is serving. And in the rest of the prefecture vets, in Thermos, in Astacos, in Mesolonghi, the same situation prevails. We must add that there are too many cheese-making plants in the Aetalo-Karanania Prefecture, where the veterinarians are involved in the FEF Audit Committees. Also, there are several slaughterhouses - most of them in every county - where veterinarians are forced to find themselves every day. Moreover, there are too many veterinary stations in Nafpatto, in the Gulf of Ambrosia, in the Ionian Sea. It turns out, Minister, that this significant lack of veterinarians since last year, when we really had cases of the prefecture flocks, did not even record one incident. Despite the ambitious efforts they have made - even gasoline from their pockets - they have not been able to respond to this great problem. All this, Minister, is happening in a country where we have significant deficiencies in livestock products, in a country where livestock farming could, in fact, under another plan to produce high-priced products and contribute to the nutritional independence of our people. Of course, such a policy stumbles on the agricultural policy of the European Union, which you, today's SYRIZA - ANEL, are refreshingly serving under the direction of the CFP of the European Union. Minister, we ask in particular: what measures will you take to cover up these vets so that they can respond to the major and serious problems that exist? It is a serious problem not only for the protection of livestock, but also for the protection of consumers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Moraite. On the type of your timely question, I will answer the following: By decision of 29-10-2014 three veterinarians were given to the Region of Western Greece after final results of the AACC. On 29-4-2015, we received an application from the Decentralised Administration of the Peloponnese, Western Greece and Ionian Islands for the Regional Unity of Atolokarnania to temporarily recruit an official of technical animal direction, a civil engineer and an environmental engineer. We pushed this forward on 22 June so that these recruitment procedures could be carried out. But I come to the essence of your timely question, which I fully accept. Public veterinary services control our livestock facilities. They shall carry out livestock and rearing resolution programmes. They monitor the livestock units in terms of environmental conditions, the welfare of our animals. They carry out checks in slaughterhouses - there is no way that a slaughterhouse will operate without a public veterinarian - in the establishment of food of animal origin, on the market. These very critical services for Greece are really subordinated. And they are subordinated because we all know that, despite the Ministry's request to recruit more than two hundred fifty veterinarians, this request could not be promoted. It is within what the government is thinking about going ahead. How do we cover this void? This gap is covered by internal redistribution, i.e. by detachments from veterinarians to some services, which are fully subordinated. We cover it with the heroic efforts of the staff. I really want to thank all the public service veterinarians who, by self-renunciation, carry out their work, and that is why we can be in this position today. What we are seeking is with the application of the breeder to be able to bring the farmers in touch with the veterinarian, who will advise them. We hope that this will be the first step. The second step is to give that direction a corresponding competence. That is what I would like to say at the beginning. In my dentistry, I'm going to mention more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u35	Mr Minister, you have not answered the substance. What you said there are three veterinarians for western Greece, Achaia, Elias and Itolocarnania do not tolerate serious criticism. As we have said - and it is a fact - from subsistence and great deficiencies in the Veterinary Services, the livestock production of the prefecture is also directly at risk, but also from health and the diet of the people in our region. It's not enough the heroism of the workers who exist. But you can't - and don't invoke this - with superhuman efforts to fill these gaps. They're not going to be covered. I have mentioned to you at the Katouna vet, in a mountainous area, in the so-called Drymero - I do not know if you have it in mind - that farmers, in order to go to the nearest vet, which is of Amphisia, are going huge distances and the one veterinarian who serves there, is in slaughterhouses, so that this problem arises and our farmers return back unrealistic. As I have said, veterinarians who serve are not enough. Measures need to be taken now and in particular if we want to protect the health of the inhabitants as well as the farmers. I said earlier that there wasn't even one incident recorded from the blue fever, which we really had hundreds of cases last year. And that's not all. Election and parties of today's cohabitation, SYRIZA and ANEL, and parties of previous cohabitation were going back to the countryside and told the farmers, "go state and you will get compensation". In fact, they were sent to take veterinary medicines - insects and other - and they were told that, by taking recipes, they would get money. And not only did they take money, but - as you said - you are preparing them for the breeder. One party, however, involved in today's conflict was negative on it. Do you know what that is, Minister? An extra raisin to the farmer. We're not talking about the breeder. We're talking about staffing the veterinary units to serve the farmers in our county. Of course, this agricultural policy you are also serving is adding to a number of anti-agricultural measures, such as HIS and the tax burden that is being applied this year for the first time. And in the new SYRIZA - ANEL Memorandum you are now bringing the final blow to poor medium-sized farms and livestock farming. There you are preparing a series of barbaric measures that will push farmers to the further violent breakdown, such as the great increases in the OGA. Minister, today, with these small contributions, over two hundred and fifty thousand farmers are uncertain. Imagine what will happen tomorrow with what you are preparing and with the oil tax discount, etc. But that's what I'll see you then. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Minister, we have asked you to answer specifically. Of course, we know that this policy that is being implemented has a goal: the dismantling of poor farmers, in order to raise livestock production in a few hands, in large capitalist enterprises. That is what the policy you are implementing today also demonstrates. This policy strips the Services - and this really is happening - by the necessary staff. And I would like to end by saying this, Mr Minister: you mentioned in a reply to a previous timely question, that you are preparing the production of feed through subsidies. We are telling you this: at the moment they are starving herds. Make sure you give the compensation, make sure you give the VAT return and take measures! We will come back with a question. Today the farmers really are in despair. They don't have to feed their cattle. And for these issues, you need to take concrete measures. I insist, Minister, that you reply to the question we put to you: the veterinary units in the county must be served. But not only in our county, because the same happens not only in our county, but, unfortunately, throughout the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u37	I think, Mr Moraite, that I have answered what you have asked you. I told you there was indeed a sub-sociation. We recognize it. And we're trying to replace it with those possibilities that we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u38	Three veterinarians?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u39	We shall now proceed, Mr Moratis, to the system of electronic recording, as it has done for all our fishermen, so that they can simplify as far as possible what is being loaded with the veterinary certificates. And they must be in touch with the farmers. Therefore, with the ‘IRIS’ programme, each farmer will be able to have a code. With this code it will be able to perform all the necessary tasks to ensure that it is recorded and promotes its own assumptions, which are mandatory under the Rules of Procedure of the European Union. In this case, we are simplifying the procedures. We also move on with the breeder's foundation to create what we all want, that is to say, healthy flocks, to have controlled flocks. With the signature of the veterinarian, who oversees these flocks, we will be able to give good value to live, goodwill in meat, standardize them and promote them. Through livestock groups and programmes, which will be subsidised, we will have the best possible result, so that there is the goodwill for the meat produced in the country. We are already moving in this direction through the Rural Development Programme. In other words, once we cannot hire public veterinarians who, as I have said, have already requested them on our request - but it is not only a matter of the Ministry, it is a matter of a more general policy - we will try in other ways to fill this gap. We are also moving in this direction. I'm sure there are shortcomings. There are certainly problems which we are trying to resolve with these measures which we have in our hands. And that's what we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Deputy Prime Minister and the Ministers for Economic, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Foreign, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health and State, tabled a draft law on 9-7-7-2015: ‘To negotiate and conclude a loan agreement with the European Stability Mechanism (ESM)’. This draft law has been characterised by the government as urgent. The fourth question, with number 374/22-6-2015, will be discussed now in the context of the second question of the Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the payment of compensation to farmers in Central Corinth for damages suffered by their farmers from heavy quarantine. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Panagiotis Sguridis. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the day-to-day problems of farmland have been exacerbated. Of course, after developments especially in recent days, even such issues are pale in front of what is coming. I say this because since we tabled the topical question three weeks ago, so much has been involved, which the farm really does not know what to prevent. In the area of Corinthia, destruction is totalitarian to many crops. I am mainly talking about apricots, who started to collect them and sell them. And yet, three weeks ago in many areas in the Municipality of Sikyonia - I speak of the regions of Laliotis, Mulki, Pasios, Tragana, Vassilikos, Kiato, Suli and others - the destruction was great not only on the fruit of plantations, but even on the vegetable capital, that is, the central torso and sprouts. This will have an impact on the incomes of the next few years. Farmers are despaired, because not only did it destroy production, but it was also the one that remained downsided. Thus, income shrinks literally. Of course, it comes at a time when farmers are in a very dramatic economic situation, also because of the unpopular measures of the common agricultural policy and the high cost, but also high taxation and characters. The current government is certainly not responsible for it, because it received it and the parties that made it had disagreed. But you haven't abolished them. They're continuing. And, unfortunately, with the third memorandum, it seems that there is a new massacre in the small and medium-sized farms, which will go faster in bankruptcy. We, through and from this timely question, ask for a timely and fair assessment and compensation for 100% of the disasters. And we asked three weeks ago, before the banks closed down, a freezing of the debts for the taxpayers affected in tax, bank, PPC, OGA, municipality, etc., and the exemption from this year's insurance contribution. Today, with this situation, we consider it necessary. I conclude by saying that we are asking you to know when the ELGA will change, to be financed by the state budget, to be insured and compensated for the total disaster by natural disasters and diseases, but also to be paid quickly, not by one year's delays or, when it is PSEA, to spend two and three years. There must also be quartz protection programmes, because that is a prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. As regards the issue of production compensation: After the great quartzing, as you mentioned, on June 18, 2015, in the wider area of Corinthia, ELGA conducted autopsies that defined the area. The area, which had been damaged by the hail, was therefore demarcated. The disclosure was made and the injury statements from the producers started. Nearly the declarations of injury have been completed so far. The damaged area is about five thousand acres. There are vines, citrus fruits, olives, apricots, vegetables and others. We've started personalizing the damage. That is, workshops from ELGA's geoponors visit those who applied for damage and see what the damage really is. The results will be announced. On the results, the producer who considers that it is not satisfied with the injury attributed to it should object. And the objections will be reassessed. I now come to this second part you said about the damage to plant capital. There is indeed a matter of damage to trees. These will be compensated for by the ESDP. The ELGA monitors these trees, these crops and assesses, over a period of time, whether they can be productive next year. If this is the case, on the basis of compensation for State-funded plant capital, we will continue to do so. 100% of the damage is not covered, Mrs Manolakou, for this reason: No insurance covers 100% of the damage. And it doesn't do this for just one reason: To think that the insured person should also take protective measures. Because if he has nothing to lose and is compensated by 100% every time the damage is done, then why would he have some protection? So, in any insurance contract, whether urban or agricultural contract with the PSEA, there is this factor left to the producer as well. That's why 100% is not covered. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In my dentistry, I'm going to tell you about the issues of anti-hair protection, just so I don't abuse time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister. We need time. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u45	Mr Minister, this morning I spoke with farmers in the region so that I could also have a picture and know what we are going to ask you to do. There's only one record of damage to the apricot. Nowhere else. The presidents of the cooperatives were in constant contact with ELGA - who has staff shortages - to go to appreciate vineyards, olives, etc. So I'm telling you that no record has been started. About now whether you are going to compensate 100% and that this is not to have an incentive for the insured, look at you: Its motive is not to be hurt by disaster, because it has spent money and effort and does not know when it will be paid. So no one wants a disaster. I'm telling you why everyone hurts their production. You didn't answer me for measures to freeze debts. This must be done, as must the exemption from the insurance contribution to the ELGA for one more reason, because the banks are closed. Can I tell you something? Even if you had done everything in perfection, and they had taken the compensation money, with the fifty every day, these people can't move. I say this because the problems in farms have grown, they are growing. It is not just the question of feedingstuffs because they are imported and of course small- and medium-sized farmers at a very rapid rate will be brought to ruin, but - I tell you, because here too, you need to take measures - it is the blackmail of the traders. With a white cheque, with a white price they get for free literally what's there and especially in Corinthia after the quartz blackmail even more. Compensation goes to the cloud. We're telling you that you need to take action. I will also tell you something else: because it sounds like a haircut, if that happens to ELGA compensation or subsidies, it will be a crime. This overall relates to micro-depositors. Of course, not to say about the third memorandum, which only the 100% increase in taxation on farms, from 13% to 26%, is a massacre and the other measures that my colleague has said. They will, in other words, move forward at a much faster rate in the extermination of small and mediumsized enterprises, in order to concentrate on a few hands, precisely what the European Union and the common agricultural policy have in its perspective. We therefore expect you to commit yourself through your second speech about freezing debts, so that the contribution to the ELGA is not paid for the affected and also for quartz protection programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u47	Look, Mrs Manolakou. The country is in an emergency. We all recognize it, no matter which camp we're in. In fact, there are problems with liquidity, especially through this situation, the farmers and small and medium-sized professionals, who, due to the lack of liquidity, cannot pay private employees. The farmer cannot pay his seasonal workers, because today on the farms he works for seasonal workers, and these seasonal workers cannot be paid, no matter what they have done. All this is well known, but it goes beyond the Ministry's capabilities. What the Ministry can do is: when the situation is normalized, it can, in cooperation with other ministries, help to have another policy for the agricultural world, because without production, the loan is not paid off. Loans with borrowings are not repaid. If the country fails to produce, if there is no growth in the country, if we do not all have the working morale it needs, this country cannot pay back the credit it receives, so we must get into production. One area of production is agriculture, livestock and fisheries. That is where we need to really move on to processing, to the goodwill we give to our products, to marketing, so that we can not import, but ensure the agri-food chain that must exist within the country. The country is currently making five and a half billion imports of products.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u48	The results of the CAP and of the European Union's stay are those.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u49	We as a ministry do not believe in subsidised farming and livestock farming. We believe that through quality we will give the added value. And this is evidenced by rural businesses, which without receiving subsidies are much better than those who receive subsidies. Because sometime through the CAP we made our farmer the couch. You'll have to stop that. But we are working in this direction and there is very little time to show the results. I do recognize that the farmer is a factory without a roof and does not want to have any damage. In this programme of anti-grass protection we work and work in cooperation with universities, to see how we can predict this thing in order to exclude it. I will close because I wish to respond to the President's request not to take any time. We already have a working party on the State aid regulation. Many of the remarks made about the way the ELGA operates, already within the new regulation, are going to provide for them. I believe that the result of this process, which you will certainly all know about, will have a more positive effect on the rural world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. The sixth question will be discussed under number 369/19-6-2015 of the second question of the Achaea MP of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State (for the fight against corruption), on the work of the 'ERGOSE Tunnel'. The Minister will answer Mr Panagiotis Nikoloudis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much. In a very critical day, when the Greeks learn that new burdens will fall on their backs, for some still have not been cleared of cases of petty clean corruption, where that "money is there" really proves that there were money for them. It is also a day that we have all been informed that the Prime Minister will announce his media auction permit, i.e. "pimps" - for those we are going to talk about today - of the contractors who, with the tolerance of political leadership, would secure the money for media performers to come out, as they did last week, and terrorise the world. Mr Minister, again and many, despite your brief term of office, we have dealt with the scandal of the work of the 'ERGOSE Tunnel'. We have and you have reports from Mr Rakinji. You have any conclusions, you really have all that stuff and you are the only Minister - I have to say - who in the key and crucial questions you, like Mr Spirtz, have decided to come here to Parliament and to the Greek people who see us today take these coals into your hands. I imagine not to tan your hands, but because you have the determination to put an end to it. The question was not tabled to one government once. It starts from 2011 with very specific questions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me a second more. I am not going to develop the timely question now. In my dentistry I might ask you to show me tolerance. Right now I'm stopping. From 2011 until today, how many ministers, Prime Ministers, Secretary-General, administrations at the "ERGOSE". Ladies and gentlemen, those accused of Mr Rakinzis - we have findings - of felony acts that the prosecutor is still dealing with are still there. And to the great-earning known ones, the surnames - as if the other Greeks were anonymous - they close their eyes and leave them there to sign the conventions, the revisions. In conclusion, I just wanted to say that the public's damage, as recorded, by Mr Rakinzis, is particularly high. It exceeds EUR 40 million. There are felony acts in other persons in addition to the three indicted, but they live and reign. We've got a catapult conclusion! Minister, I'm sure because I've got more answers from you on these hot issues of interacting. I'm sure - because you've proved it, you've opened matters that others didn't open - that you're going to take it down. And here we have a very big, a barbaric scandal that's still alive. Prove that you're not like everyone else, not to prove it to you, but because we owe it to the wintering Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, my colleague. I just want to remind you of the need to take a little care of the time, because the groups in Parliament are meeting in all the parties. Help the President-in-Office to go to his own meeting. Thank you very much. The Minister of State Mr Panagiotis Nikoloudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. I promise to keep what you have asked for. It is true, indeed, that the questioner today, Mr Nicolopoulos, had tabled a series of questions as early as 2011 and, as it turns out, he did not receive any answers. I think it is equally reasonable or understandable that I am not going to apologize or explain why he has not received any answers. I'll explain my own actions. I had before me an obligation to move, in compliance with two principles, the principle of feasibility on the one hand, which says that nothing must be left without being investigated, and on the other hand the principle of legality or proper functioning of justice, which says that under no circumstances should you put the cart in front of the horse, which means, in our case, that, when the responsible prosecutor has been seized and not only he, but that the case has also gone to a special interrogation, then it is indeed an excess of any action of my own to investigate the same case. However, by making use of my particular experience, because of my previous capacity, I found that, in addition to the complainants, what is called the Ottoman scandal, there was also an act mentioned in the question, namely the extradition of counterfeits, virtual tax. Furthermore, by insisting on maintaining the principle of legality and looking very carefully at the timely question, I found that Mr. Nicolopoulou's previous question had also been notified to the Prosecutor of the Ice Award and to the Prosecutor of Economic Crime and to the Prosecutor of Corruption. However, it was only notified, which means that they were not obliged to take action. So, by eliminating all my powers and all my rights, I sent a copy of the question again to the Prosecutor of Corruption in the reminder - note that there is also a crime here of its own motion - and that it is the 'prosecutor' - the crime of issuing counterfeits, fictitious tax. This means that it will have to carry out the necessary investigations. Besides, I don't think I had the right to do anything more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, the questions have all been tabled - because there are too many - both the Prime Ministers and the relevant ministers. The Minister presents it, as does the present one. So each one of them had to do the right things then and today. So the Rakinji says: "You won't be disciplinary to them? But they were arrested stealing opium." They haven't been there. I asked Mr Spirtzi yesterday when the new administration of the 'ERGOSE' passed. Is that possible? People may be innocent, but Rakinji says: "Here's the evidence. Go through them. Order an SAD.’ What are the Memorandum Laws saying that automatically anyone accused of being made available? Since they've got an uncle on the Koron, who's holding them? The one who also appointed general secretaries. Yeah? Yeah. Prosecutors, political persons indicted by the reports were appointed general secretaries. Mr President, I must remind you of an excellent journalist - since we have been living on one side in the last few days, journalists from the ESDC are being asked to explain whether or not they did their duty - in the memory of Aristotle Bugatsos to tell you that this entire investigation was hers. And what I'm going to submit contains its own overwhelming information. The former Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, brought me in touch with her and told me "to deepen the knife". I would remind the Chamber that for ten years I was the scandal secretary of Kostas Karamanlis. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Is that what I'm saying then? I've been talking about it then. Did I write them then? I wrote them back then. Here in the House are the questions. And that is why I feel enormously sad at one time when so many governments and monotonous ones have passed, and I too, with overwhelming figures and dangers - believe me - have sues, have actions from these 'pimps' about what we say in here. Mr President, I also know your personal sensitivity. Is it possible, firstly, why were two questions tabled yesterday, to receive a complaint from Mr Melissanidis? And what does it say, Minister? Not that I told my TV show something, on some radios, but why I put two questions here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Minister, every Member who comes here and even when he is a Member of the province, when he is not of a "jobs" - you see now in the New Democracy four of them claim leadership, that is not family rule, that is called "para'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a','a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'y'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'a'y'a'y' a'y'y'y'y'y" - they have just been based only on the people' vote for the people and have against those who have to go to the courts, and they have 15 lawyers name in the name of the Greek people's name of the Greek people, not in their own state''''''''''''' and the law and the law and the law. Because it can't be written today. Yes, Mr. President, Mr. Alafuzos made a request to the National Bank. Today the banks, which at ATMs show us their channel that some helpless people go from morning to night and ask for twenty euros, are going to ask for a renegotiation of the debt of 40 million from Mrs Katseli. She writes and there's no answer yet. I'm sure, Minister, you're not like other politicians. And I am sure that you will claim as much as you can and the guarantee letters will deduct them. And yet today when we are discussing this here, I do not think it is appropriate for those accused of Mr Rakintzis to remain in their positions. And yet justice for three years, Mr President, must have such cases in her hands and be delayed. Another fuel smuggler was imposed 11.5 million fines, they have been confirmed at the Piraeus FAA, but they have never been condemned. And that's why he's now suing and suing anyone who's questioning him "for the time has passed and they've been deleted," he says. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u56	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that I do not have any competence in the field of exercise or disciplinary matters, nor do I have any responsibility for the others that the honourable Member has mentioned in his second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u58	Ask your colleagues, do you have a right if they did that or the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u59	My fellow prosecutors?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u60	The Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u61	My fellow ministers, I don't think so. You can ask them that responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u62	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u63	I hope that this question of the timely question the honourable Member has been satisfied with my protagonist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the first under number 404/30-6-2015 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the extension of natural gas networks and pipelines in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment. The fourth under number 398/30-6-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the recruitment of necessary personnel at “PPC S.A.” will not be discussed due to a Minister's blockade. The second question under number 293/2-2015 is the second question of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties, and will not be discussed as a result of a Minister's impediment. Finally, the sixth question by number 371/22-6-2015 of the second question by the MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the exclusion of quality and certified Greek products from the tender for free distribution of food and commodities to the most deprived, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S1-commons.u65	With the consent of the House, 11.32' will be the sitting.
