ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Xanna, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u2	The Members of Parliament, and so on. Mustafa Mustafa and Kara Yusuf Ayhan reported to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "Proposals of the Thrace Smoking Cooperative to support tobacco". The Members of Parliament, and so on. Kotsias Thomas and Born Georgios reported to the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Report and an estimate of the cost of the disasters caused by the floods of February by the Citizens' Movement of Documents, which calls for the immediate restoration of damage and compensation for the injured". MP Dermitzakis Konstantinos reported to the Ministries of Productive Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, the Anti-corruption of Corruption and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "Procedure of the Single Agricultural Association of Producers Outside the Century and Agricultural Plant Production Activities of the Municipality of Ierapetra on the issue of the uncontrolled sale of Cretan products in the People's Markets of Athens - Piraeus by professionals and producers that have nothing to do with Crete, as well as their exploitation with other names". Parliamentary Ms. Fotini Vakis filed a petition to the Ministry of Health on the subject: 'Request of the Association of Nephropaths Corfu for the proclamation of two positions of doctors of nephrotics and the problem of prescribing medicinal products in a period of deep economic crisis'. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Kritsotakis Michalis and Vardakis Socrates submitted a petition to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Proclamation of the Heraklion Work Center regarding the refusal to implement the collective contract of working conditions of tourist bus drivers with the employer of the owners of tourist buses from the Association of Tourist and Travel Offices of Crete". MEP Mr Giannakis Stergios filed a petition to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "Request of the Academy of Commercial Epirus - School of Masters of Preveza and the Association of Students AEN Epirus in order to provide answers to school's themes". MEP Mr. Bukoros Christos filed a petition to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Request of the industry IP12.13 Magnesia Environmentalists in education, on the restoration of their working rights and responsibilities". MEP Mr Giannakis Stergios filed a petition to the Ministry of Health on the subject: findings and proposals of the Preveza Medical Association on issues relating to the health sector. Parliamentarians Stavros Tassos, Manolis Syntihakis and Mrs Diamanto Manolakos have submitted a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "A request from the Municipality of Ikaria on the preparation of the anti-missile period 2015, in order to provide decent credits to the OTAs of Samos and Ikaria for relevant interventions, for permanent presence on the air islands during the summer months and to review the legislative framework so that the forest service can carry out its work, as well as to increase”. Parliamentarians Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Ministry of Health, on the subject: "Publication on a donation of the Agency for the Response of Children's Trauma to the "Karmandanio" Children's Hospital". Parliamentary Ms Fotini Gennimata has submitted a report to the Ministry of Health, on ‘Application of the Federation of Commercial Associations of Attica, Honduras and Aegean Islands concerning the draft joint ministerial decision ‘Statutes to ensure access for uninsured persons to the public health system’. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Nektarios Santorinios, Dimitrios Gatis and Ilias Kamaeros submitted a report to the Ministry of State on the subject: "A request by the Mayor of Leros on the non-digital coverage of the southern region of Leros". Parliamentarians Alexandros Meikopoulou, Kostas Delimetros, Makis Ballis and ladies Katerina Papanatsiou and Danai Tzikas - Kostopoulou submitted a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "Request of the Board of Directors of the TEM Magnesia on road risk on Volos - Velestinos road". Parliamentarians Sia Anagnostopoulos, Evangelia Ammanatidou - Pascalidou, Fotinos Vakis, Ioanna Eitanis Kostas Demetris, Mrs Hara Kafantaris, Mr Yiannis Michelovanakis, Mr Kostantinos Barkas, Mrs Evgenias Uznidos, Mr Panos Skouris, Mr Thanasis Skoumas, Mr Yiannis Status and Mrs Meropis Toufis have submitted a reference to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Procedure by a citizen to ensure proper operation and the merger – cooperation of the NCI TAYFE and TAFTE with a view to the interest of the Greek public." Congressman Rachel Makri has submitted a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Acquisition of a citizen concerning the manner and criteria of selecting the management of school units". Congressman Socrates Famelos filed a petition to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, on the subject: "Request of the Mayor of Lagada for the operation of a special school in the local community of Lofis of the Municipality of Lagada". MEP Anastasia Gara submitted a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "Request of the Association of Police Officers Orestiad, on the coverage of organic positions in the newly established Pre-Additional Centre for the Reservation of Immigration Orestiad". The honourable Member, Mr Rahil Makri, has submitted a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: 'Acquisition of a citizen regarding the definition of the number of Vice-Presidents in the ESAs'. MEP Stergios Giannakis filed a petition to the Ministry of Health on the subject: "Application of the Medical Association of Preveza for the implementation of the Decision No 1157/2015 of the Athens Monomele Court of First Instance on the re- recruitment of doctors to the local Health Unit of the Preveza. MEP Thanasis Bourras submitted a report to the Ministry of Health on the subject: 'A request by the Mayor of Rafina - Pikermi on problems in the functioning of the Rafina Health Centre'. MEP Kostas Katsafandos submitted a reference to the Ministries of Labour and Social Solidarity and Economics, on the subject: "Publication for the disposal without notice, EUR 27 million from current contributions for the single Social Welfare Fund, in order to meet the needs for payment of supplementary pensions". MEP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on 'Citizens' proposals for the development of the former industrial area of Drapetson'. Parliamentary Ms. Rachel Makri filed a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "Application of the President of the Agricultural Chamber of Greece, Annex of Western Macedonia on the problems and shortcomings of staff at the Kozani Veterinary Office". Congressman Christos Boukoros filed a petition to the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "Signature of the President of the TEI Magnesia, on the risk of road pavement of Volos - Velestino National Road". Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos made reference to the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the subject: "Publication on the positive effort made for the reopening of the DELICA plant in BIPE Patras and the vindication of its employees". Mr President, the reports have been read out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Xanna, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. Before we begin with the debate on topical and urgent questions, I would like to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice is tabling its report in the draft law: 'Publishing a payment order for claims under an administrative contract concluded in the context of a trade transaction'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS There will be a slight derogation, because Mr Kourakis is objectively busy and we will start from the references and questions in accordance with Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We will begin with the fourth with number 1583/6-4-2015 question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the need for direct funding of the school units of the Municipality of Thessaloniki. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the situation in the schools of the Municipality of Thessaloniki without exaggeration can be characterised as tragic. I would mention to you - to keep them in mind - a few incidents. Natural gas has been paid for since the previous year, that is, for the last six to seven months they owe it. There are unpaid bills for phone, water, cleaning, paper and others. Suppliers are unpaid and refuse to supply schools with new materials. More than three months - he went to five - to pay the school cleaners. That's not us, the Communists, Minister. There are five primary school clubs in the joint communication. Of course, as you can see, a series of damages that cannot be dealt with every day - even broken glasses are presented. Minister, the economic suffocation is to understand that it cannot have too much effect on the educational process. When there are no A4 glues and photocopiers are damaged, the slightest events that need a small financial support cannot be done. This situation, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, has been the result of the policy followed for years by the previous governments. But you follow her, too, Minister. What's that policy? It is the policy of sub-financing, beyond all others, for the substance of education policy. Of course, the Municipality of Thessaloniki also bears responsibility, not above all for how it managed the poverty of all these years but mainly for agreeing, agreeing and implementing this policy without mobilising the people against it. I would just like to tell you a clue. I know that two doses of state grant have been given, while almost the school year is over. Of these, the Municipality of Thessaloniki withdrew about 260,000 euros, because they had him withdrew the electricity in 2014, from August to December, and the rest he shared in schools was around 3,000 euros average. Others took 2,500 euros, others took about 3,200 euros. That's a drop in the ocean. We're asking specific questions. Because extra emergencies have been created, how does the Ministry intend to deal with her? Will it give the Municipality of Thessaloniki an extraordinary financial grant to deal with these problems? What about the cleaners? When will they be paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u6	Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, to wish on behalf of the Bureau and also of the House many years to all Constantine and Helens who celebrate and work in the House and to both directors, Mrs Gine and Mr Christopoulos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that the figures mentioned by my colleague in the Communist Party, Mr Vardalis, are just like that. The situation is very bad indeed. I have to tell you that yesterday I had a meeting with the president of the School Buildings Agency, which is currently in another company, because the OSCE has merged with two other companies, and we also discussed the issue of the very poor housing situation in the schools of Thessaloniki and the issue of repairs. Then I shall refer to the functionalities you refer to. I asked him how many years he had in this position and he told me five. And I asked him how the funding is and he told me that it was unbelievable that of the EUR 250 million he had five years ago, then, two years ago, there were EUR 60 million and now it is EUR 5 million. You understand that, with EUR 5 million, you cannot meet the needs of repayment and completion of projects that are currently in the middle of a process. So I want to tell you that we have inherited a very bad situation. I also remember, before, when we were opposition, that I had criticised Mr. Loverdos, because he had taken money for public investment intended for schools, school equipment and all the elements associated with a good educational process, and had used them for substitute payments. So we have lost another source of funding from there. With regard to the issues you have just raised - cleanliness and others - you know that the Ministry's supervised body, INEDIBIM was designated as a contracting member who can finance the school committees. The scheme, under Law No 4186, is now awarded to the municipalities concerned. This means, of course, that from 2015 to 2016, the appropriations have been transferred through the Ministry of Interior to the relevant municipalities, they are entered in the budget of the Ministry of Interior and are allocated by analogy to the municipalities concerned following a reasoned decision of the Ministry of Interior. What I wanted to say is that this competence is delegated to the relevant municipalities, who, as you said, are allocated the money accordingly. It is therefore very difficult, of course, to be honest - as far as the issue of cleaners is concerned - we have said this before - to recommend that the relevant municipalities recruit this staff in permanent positions. Because that would have to follow an SAPA procedure. But we could think of something. First of all - I will tell you then in the solution we have reached - we had thought of a regulation to molecule these workers in order to gain an advantage in the conventions that will be called upon by the municipalities concerned. On the question of the solution we have put to this point and on the main issue that you have raised with your proposal, I shall refer to my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u9	Minister, I don't know what you're going to say in dentistry, but the question is specific. Problems have arisen, which in recent years have increased further. With the grants you give - these tactics, the reduced, etc. - the problem can't be handled. Well, take note of the dentistry and answer whether, in fact, an additional line will be given to address these schools' operational needs. Now, on the substance of the matter, Mr Minister, I think it is clear from today's debate and from the situation in schools and, more generally, from education that the dilemma of'monstrous-antimony' was callous. Why? For addressing such problems, which seem small but are not, in fact, a matter of what will be done in the more general negotiation and agreement with our 'equitable partners'. That is to say whether or not we will find money and whether we will be able to provide additional funds to solve such immediate and acute problems in the field of education. And because such a prospect, apparently, does not exist, it is evident that other sources will be found. And these, on the basis of the European Union's general policy that has been in place for all these years, are actually telling parents or municipalities "Put your hand in the pocket to solve the problem and, in any case, if you don't have any money, find sponsors". In fact, every day more and more school and education in general, they are becoming more and more classic. Minister, this lame funding is not given on time. Last week, the Municipality of Thessaloniki took the second dose twenty days before the schools closed and divided into schools. And that was the second dose. When's the rest going to take them? Schools are closed. All this went for 2014 debts. In 2015, what's going to happen? Apart from the fact that in recent years, this funding of around 30% has been reduced. In our opinion, it is clear that the working class, the populace and youth have a way, if they want to free the opportunities that today's day gives modern man for full education, work and life with rights. This road is no different from the race path. We must fight for what we need, that is, first of all, for the specific we are discussing, to provide immediate funding to meet the needs of the schools of the Municipality of Thessaloniki and, more generally, for exclusively, uniform, public and free upgraded education for all children by eighteen years, which will ensure modern, complete education for all our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Bardalis, I will agree with you if we have the same appreciation. You said that unfortunately or happily what was going to happen in schools - but I would say in other areas of social life - it depends on how the negotiations go. I would say that this is where a huge fight is being taken in terms of government to enable the country to stand on its feet, having passed through a throat. You should know that the Greek Prime Minister puts the issue of debt restructuring at the table, while there is a development package. Without that, we cannot secure the resources necessary for education, health, social welfare, insurance and the rest. I would also like to remind you about the question of payment that last year the first five months payment to the cleaners was paid off on 18 June. Since June, they were repaid on 2 December. Here, we have faced a problem: what about the ending contracts? If - as I said before - they were going to the municipalities, the municipalities should hire a new staff, which was particularly awkward by the cleaners and cleaners who were employed at that time. For this reason, we have proceeded with a regulation which extends the renewal of contracts by the end of 2015 to ensure that the same workers and the same workers are the ones who will continue to work there until a better solution is found. Obviously, our position...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u12	Minister, how is this going to happen? Okay, extension how will you ensure it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u13	The what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u14	Be the same workers who are now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u15	Because it's an extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u16	Refresh until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u17	Yeah, by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u18	Then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u19	We can talk about it. The proposal you are making - which is our proposal, I mean the Ministry of Education - to the government - and we are struggling with it - is the same as ours: if we could have a permanent relationship with the cleaners' staff. The cleaning woman is not just a person, a worker who is simply cleaning up. The cleaner does many other things and is the soul of the school, is also in breaks, also participates in child care, there is an additional eye in a certain way. As far as what you are saying in your question is concerned, about what measures are we going to take to remove the debts of the school committees to public electricity, telephone and heating services, I would like to inform you that, at a Ministerial Council, which I had the honour of attending, we discussed the possibility. I said that it is in our mind to do so when we are able to do so, so that schools, in terms of these fixed operating expenses, have either a relief or, in some cases, it is difficult to find this money, have a discharge. I'm talking about gas, heating, etc. In other words, the intention was expressed by all the ministers and the government as a whole, because that is a fair solution, as it upgrades education. But you can understand - and I said this at the outset - that this is linked to the country's general trend in the struggle it is currently giving so that it can stand on its feet. In this sense, we call on all the political forces, while maintaining their reservations, to support this national effort so that, in fact, the country can take a development course so that all these demands, which are perfectly fair and, in particular, in the very sensitive area of education, can be met. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u20	Me too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Constantine Tsukalas is seeking permission from a few days' absence abroad by the following letter: ‘Mrs. President, please, as you approve a few days' leave, as I will be absent abroad from 23 to 31 May 2015.’ Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u21	The House approved the requested permission. I would like to inform you that the second under number 197/8-5-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the new Sparta Museum, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with No. 210/12-5-2015, top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the working conditions at the Refinery of "Greek Petroleum" (ELPE) in Aspropyrgos, is not discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member and deleted. Also, the fourth question under number 106/20-4-2015, the second question from the MP Drama of the Potamios, Mr Kyriakos Charakides, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning reports from the manufacturer (LOCKHEED MARTIN) on the reconstruction of the old-fashioned P-3B aircraft and the counter-proposals of Airbus is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. As you know, it's in America and it's deleted. The information I have is that Mr. Army is within Parliament. You'll allow me to interrupt the meeting for five minutes, to look for him and tell him to come. It's not that much of a cadet I'm doing. I may hear them from the President of Parliament. But I take responsibility. We're interrupting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u22	With the permission of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u23	With the permission of this House, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is resumed. We enter the first 209/12-5-2015 top-level question of the first-round question of the Member of Parliament's Evros of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Anastasia Garas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need to create permanent health committees at the Centre for Disability Certification (KEPA) Twin wall. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u25	Good morning, Minister. We know that welfare and social policy policies are the priority of all of us and are necessary. In fact, it was in the first commitment of this government. In this context, in order not to analyse the need for social policy and welfare, we understand the need for permanent health committees to be set up at the Dubois CSCE in order to help people and people with disabilities. At the moment, while there is the structure of the Twin-Twin-Twin CSR, which receives about a thousand five hundred applications for disability assessment per year, the committees have not been set up to evaluate and examine disabled people. I give you a few clues. The radius of the Insurance and Examination Committee of the CSR Twin walls is about fifty kilometers, while the road network is in a poor state and dangerous for the safe movement of residents. However, the infrastructure for the committees exists at the most in the Dymotikh, as the KEPA is housed in a new, state-of-the-art IKA - ETAM building, where the examinations are available and are fully equipped. Among other things, the exams have integrated wheelchair ramps, special elevators, toilets for MEDI, special beds, patient transfer carts and computers connected to the IKA system - ETAM. In addition, it is huge the sums spent on building and logistics and which have so far been untapped. I would also like to point out that the committees are meeting at the moment and the examinations are held in Alexandroupolis, within two hundred kilometres of the northern Evros area we are discussing. We note that at zero-cost, committees could be set up at the Dubois CEC, while there is already staff and facilities. My timely question therefore concerns what action you intend to take in order to create the permanent committees and what timetable there is for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. The timely question I was asked from SYRIZA's parliament, Mr Anastasia Gara, I think it is very appropriate. It highlights and proves, with very good arguments, the situation with MEDIs and their suffering in the area of the Twin wall and mainly in the north of the Prefecture of Evros. We accept that this is the way things are, that suffering is too great. It is not only the distance for those who go from Tymotich to Alexandroupolis but also for those who come farther from the Tymotich. On the occasion of and the question we have been asked, we have already made a design with the competent Disability Directorate of the IKA. We're going with a road map I'll report right away. For the next quarter, first of all, we will say that the applications, for the first time, to certify the disability of the CEDEFOP, will be submitted to the Twin-eye, to the structures of the IKA that exist. Therefore, they will not be transferred to Alexandroupolis for the submission of applications. Secondly, what we are going to do in the next quarter is to meet at least twice a month the CCEEA Alexandroupolis with the same composition in the DRC to examine the cases that are in the DRC. Thirdly, with regard to home-based examination of disabled people who cannot be moved, the CSCE will come to the Dumotich with a single frequency to examine these cases and not to trouble the AMEA. That's like a first road map we'll try it out in the next quarter. If cases are dealt with sufficiently, we will continue in this way. If we continue to have problems, we will also make an assessment. You also come back in a quarter with a timely question, if the problem is not solved in the way proposed by the IKA Disability Directorate, in order to move forward with even more radical measures. The argument that I am being put forward at the moment by the services responsible, in order not to become a permanent structure, but to be transferred to Alexandroupolis and to meet in the twinmotich, is that they do not find doctors who can move to this distance, since there must be no traceability from the same prefecture. In any case, the Ministry's view is that we should start with this roadmap, with these corrective measures, and if it does not, and we see that the suffering continues, here again, to come back and give a more final solution, somehow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Gara, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u29	I am very pleased that you have already made a temporary solution. Nevertheless, in view of the difficulties that exist, I will insist on the request that the committee be permanent, that this temporaryity should not be allowed to exist and that any emergency may cause it to be suspended. That is why we insist on permanent structures, as we consider that people with disabilities especially in regions of the region should have a much better service, as access is much more difficult than in the centre. So please come back and rethink it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u30	Would you like to fill in something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u31	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u32	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. It goes without saying - and I have said it - that within three months we will see whether the interim solution results. If it does not, the political will of the Ministry and of the Minister is to give a lasting solution. I think it is very fair to ask you and the question you have put. On the basis of this very sensible question which touches on a real social problem, I would like to clarify something, Mr President, as a competent Minister and after having contacted me just now with the Prime Minister of the country. Reports and leaks that exist today which raise concerns among the citizens and the insured, who say that the Greek delegation in Brussels has proposed to the creditors' delegation, as regards early retirement, that immediately those who leave early retirement will also have a penalty on the day they left before they reach the general retirement age limit - that is, sixty-seven years or sixty-two with a reduced pension - will pay insurance contributions. These are leaks which we categorically disprove. The Prime Minister and the Government are committed by the programming declarations that we will fully respect the basic and mature insurance rights. That's what we'll do to the end. The only thing that is happening at the moment, Mr President, in the Brussels Group is that the Greek delegation does not table such proposals, but is making proposals and struggling hard so that creditors in the country withdraw their claim that the zero deficit clause is still in force, on the basis of which within three years 90% of supplementary pensions will have been depleted. This battle is being fought by the Greek delegation, so that we do not have any new reductions in pensions - from the main and secondary - and this fight will continue until the end. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three teachers attendants from the 14th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes you and welcomes you. We give a special day to the student sitting in her chair because of a disability problem. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the next question to the same Minister, Mr. Army. It is the first under number 208/12-5-2015 timely question of the second-cycle question of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandra Chanaka, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the subject of OSCE registered pensions to the regulation of the percentage of doses. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u35	Good morning, Minister. Our government, the SYRIZA-toothed government, has legislated, despite the strong opposition of our lenders, to adjust the hundreds of doses for tax debts and OAUs. This has been one breath for the OAU debtors, but in this way the debtors were divided into several categories: Firstly, those who can settle their debts in a hundred instalments regardless of the amount, secondly those who have submitted their pension cards and who owe less than EUR 20,000 to the OAU and can settle them in forty instalments and, finally, those who owe more than EUR 20,000 to the OAU and from whom the remaining sum, over EUR 20,000, is requested, to pay a single payment, and indeed in the current economic conditions. This deprives most of them of the only possible income resource for their survival, pension. It does not allow them to offset their debts by part of the pension that they are reasonably entitled to. And not only that, but it considers that pension entitlement is founded on the day the debts are repaid to the fund. This, however, is unfair, abusive and poses a problem of survival for these people. So I ask you, Minister: You intend to amend Article 28 of the Law. 4321/2015, in order to allow those who have submitted the supporting documents required for the OSH’s pension to join the hundred-dollar arrangement as well? Do you intend to proceed with a scheme to be recognised as a retirement day as the day on which the pension entitlement is based, rather than the day on which the debts are repaid to the fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u36	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. The problem you have raised with your question and your position is real. There are large doses of social injustice to the incarcerated self-employed who have made their application for retirement, owe more than EUR 20,000, cannot pay them and cannot go into some arrangement. I believe that by tomorrow, day after Friday, we shall have the legislation in place. Our Ministry's orientation is to present at the beginning of next week a bill simplifying the disability certification procedures in the CEPOL, alleviating disabled people and at the same time having insurance provisions that will address major social injustices. Inside that will also be the legislation for the enclaved self-employed who have applied for retirement and cannot receive a pension because they owe more than EUR 20,000. The idea is that we should increase, but also for those who are locked up so far - the five years of the memorandum policies that have led them to this inability to meet their insurance obligations - we will propose a fair way to regulate with netting - not in a hundred instalments - the problem that exists today. In the legislation that we are proposing, we will also be dealing with two further issues: The time that we have set - in two months' time - the law has so far since the request for pensions that they have to settle their debts above EUR 20,000, we will make it six months, so as to enable them to respond. Secondly, their pension will take it from the day they applied for and established an insurance right, not from the day they made their payment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u38	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u39	Minister, I had three pages prepared for an answer. But I'll just keep the last one! I hope very soon that I will defend in this Chamber the amendment of this article. I would also like to ask whether what we are talking about now will also apply to the EFF or only to the EUPM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u40	Minister, before I give you the floor, I wanted to say this. I have listened with great interest to what you said about simplification. I am now, of course, getting a little overrun, but you sucked me off the medical granted of disability pensions. I hope that, as far as permanent disabilities are concerned, we will not have to pass on these people every three or five years by a committee. If, by accident on the road, someone has lost his leg, a leg does not "false"! The story's over. Excuse me, but it'll be nice to hear how you think to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, your speech and your remark are welcome. One of the ways of simplifying this procedure is the certification they receive from CSRs to be for each use, in order to address this problem. Secondly, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say that you have had this on the two previous pages you have not mentioned - the draft law proposes the reconstruction of the Scientific Committee. It will be purely scientific and will examine chronic and irreversible diseases. Until now, it was considered forty-three. It will be done so that truly such cases with legs or hands that do not grow, with eyes that cannot come back, can be treated once and the certification is indefinite and life-time. That is an answer to Mrs Veil, because I know that those were also included in her reflections. As for the enclaved self-employed who have applied and cannot retire, because they owe more than 20,000 or the insured of the EFF, i.e. doctors, lawyers and engineers who owe more than 15,000 - because the threshold is slightly lower - I mean that it will also apply to them. That is why we have a final meeting today, in a way, with the two OSCE and EBRD governors to see the legislation that we are preparing and at the beginning of the week to bring it not as an amendment, but as a normal regulation of a regular draft law to be consulted and then submitted to Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. We move on to the third in turn question to Mr. Army. This is the first question by MP I of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the conditions for granting pensions to uninsured elderly people. Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u43	Minister, we are essentially talking about a blind horizontal regulation that has been depriving people for two and a half years, from 1-1 to 2013, the minimum pension of EUR 360 together with their medical care. We are talking about people who have entered the "cinder" of commemorative cannibalism and in addition to the question of survival, their minimal moral claim has also been crushed and their demand for what they loved for life, the notion of homeland. Because we are mostly talking about repatriating Pontius from the former Soviet Union and of relatives from the area of South Albania, Northern Epirus. I will complete my question from now on: I was reminded by a letter from the area of the Istanbul, following the persecution of the 1950s and 1960s, but also economic migrants who went abroad. They do not complete the 20 years of age and through it the exterior set of conditions is, in fact, impossible to obtain this minimum pension. SYRIZA was electionally bound. I would like to ask directly about this, Minister, in accordance with the analogy and the provisions of the Treaties, even if there is agreement. They understand that themselves, those who are listening to us and who will be informed that they must shut down the big bill of negotiation so that this EUR 360 is reintroduced and reintroduced as a minimum, capable of keeping them alive, but above all, Minister, as a moral confirmation. You know, we're talking about people who saw the concept of homeland from a distance and it was a jealous process. They came here and were treated a lot of times completely devious. I use their own expressions: 'Let our humiliation stop. Some have dealt with us worse than garbage.' And, Mr. Army, take note of this phrase: "In foreigners I am Greek and in Greece I am foreigners." This moral dimension - because they are not going to solve the problem of their lives by EUR 360, we understand that - must be given by our Government, the Government of National and Social Rescue SYRIZA - ANEL, so that, in fact, these accusations that we have mentioned - and not only of course - must be dealt with in the way we have made an election commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u44	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Triantafylides is absolutely right. You know that, Mr President, because you have also repeatedly brought it to the House. It was an unjust decision. When this was done, they were deprived of some forty-two thousand over-aged and gay farmers, in a way, of a pension - because they are at the same level of EUR 360 - of which Greeks, Mr President, are over sixty-seven and were not insured in an insurance fund, but were also homogenous, who are the poorest of our fellow citizens. Literally, they don't have to eat. There's too many of them coming to the ministry every day. We are aware of the miserable economic situation in which they are found. It is, in fact, a very great injustice which has been done over the past two and a half years. To understand the problem, of the forty-two thousand who were cut out in retirement, there were thirty-two thousand of them in life because they were older. Today's assessment, as I also spoke to the new commander of the OGA, is twenty-eight-thirty-three thousand, because these people are also leaving life, sad and unjust in this way, etc. We're in the final straight line. The political will of the Government, the Ministry and the Minister is in the bill that we will bring next week, for the CEPOL and the insurance provisions, to be within this provision. The previous commander of the OGA, Mr. Vergin, had made a specific proposal on how to do this. Today, Mr. Bakaleksis took over by the new commander of the OGA. In the phone call I had with him yesterday - his appointment to FEK - the first thing I asked of him today was that he would go to OGA by noon, to have sent me, together with the legal services, well-processed legislation, to restore this injustice and return the EUR 360 to the over-age uninsured and self-insured, without the 'blank cracks' of the conditions laid down by Law 4093/2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u47	Minister, I will insist on when. Although, once the negotiations are thriving and we have an agreement - we are all aware of it and understand it themselves - it will be July 1st, August 1st, September 1st? We must give a concrete answer. As you said, what the state cannot solve is what God solves. Half of them have been migrated to the place of longing and refreshment. One of the prisoners. Secondly, when we talk about the Church and Orthodoxy, we must be careful. Many of them go to piles: Western Thessaloniki, Eosmos, Cordelios, Polichni, Stavroupolis. Sixteen thousand people go to church piles, Metropolitan Barnabas, and are fed there. They go undercover because they're ashamed. They don't want their neighbors to see them and their relatives that they're forced to go to a pile to eat a plate of food. I really want to see it. It's our commitment. I just want to remind you of the reference to the press conference you were attending, Mr. Army, when you saw representatives of the Pontian unions, with the presence of Mr. Lafazanis, Mr. Metropoulou, Mr. Kurublis, headed by President Alexis Tsipras and current Prime Minister who noted this moral dimension: The President said: "We know all these years that the people who came from the former Soviet Union are one of the most progressive and creative parts of Greek society. I would stress that they are the people of the struggle who live from their misery who have never created problems in Greek society. They gave and didn't take. We consider our obligation national and patriots to help for their definitive integration into the social and national body." When, Mr. Army?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u49	We believe, as I have said, that the political will of the government, of the Ministry and of the Minister is to resolve this issue. Because, indeed, the solution to this very big social problem created by the application of homicide memorial policies - in this case, these policies were also homicides - we consider them to be moral, political, national and patriotic, for that reason in the next few days, at the beginning of the week, Monday or Tuesday that we will send the bill to the General Secretariat of the Government to enter into open consultation on the simplification of disability certification procedures and on the treatment of social injustices, our political will is to be within this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Varoufakis is on his way, but we must not waste time and because the Deputy Minister, Mr Andreas Xanthos, is present, we are starting with Mr Stakouras' question and when Mr Varoufakis comes, he will be interfered in order to proceed to the order established in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The second question will be discussed under number 198/8-5-2015 of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Health, concerning the operating problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u51	Minister, the General Hospital of Lamia, as probably all hospitals in the country, had chronic problems, smaller or larger. The problems are both structural and functional. There are problems of the amount of funding and of the low efficiency of available public resources. It is true that the implementation of the necessary measures to stabilise public finances in recent years has reduced the funds available, thereby limiting the functioning of the hospital. At the same time, however, with the reduction of waste, the effectiveness of resources has also improved. In recent months, however, the problems in the hospital have been burdened and increased. This is essentially due to two reasons. The first reason is the deregulation of the hospital due to a lack of administration. The hospital for months - and you know it - is headless. It has actually been left to his fate, without a commander since 9 January, without a sub-command and without the ability of the Board of Directors from 9 April and with a high probability - if not certain, as is apparent from a written reply from your Ministry from 15 May to a parliamentary question - in the possibility of stopping the operation of the Office of the Ministry of Health of Thessaly and Central Greece operating in the last eight years within the General Hospital of Lamia. This office is housed in the hospital, so it does not create any additional financial costs and its responsibilities concern the control, coordination and supervision of the operation of the health facilities of the Region of Central Greece based in Lamia. The second reason for this is the internal attitude of payments which the public has declared to the private sector, particularly in the health sector. Indicatively, but attributes, the costs of covering hospital deficits and the repayment of outstanding debts to them was only established at EUR 63 million in the first quarter of 2014, from EUR 631 million in the corresponding period of 2014. This development obviously has negative consequences for the operation of the Lamas General Hospital as well. Significant deficiencies have arisen in health material and medicines, while the passages are growing. The aid to medical and technological equipment launched in 2013 and 2014 was carcinogenic. Medical and nursing staff either quantitatively enough - this is a chronic problem which was given early until recently some emblematic solutions - or has reached the limits of human potential. Parts, such as the Radiology, present serious problems. I would ask you, Minister, what action is the Ministry of Health intending to take to address the major problems currently encountered at the General Hospital of Lamia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u53	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. I think it is right to describe the situation as a whole in the health system and obviously also in the Lamia Hospital. I am pleased that you recognise that there has been a long-term policy of limiting the funding of hospitals. This year you know very well that we are implementing a budget drawn up by the previous government - and perhaps you too were responsible for its pension - and that has a very low expenditure limit of EUR 1.388 billion for public hospitals, EUR 230 billion less than 2014, i.e. over 400 million less than 2013. With this budget there will be a problem with the smooth and orderly operation of hospitals and their supply by the end of the year. So there is a need to reform this budget, obviously to the extent that there will be another financial framework and to the extent that the country's central decay, the economic situation, is being addressed. The hospitals, my dear colleague, are at a very critical moment. They've been at their worst in the past five years. This is not because today's government broke through, but because especially this year there has been a cumulative effect of negative interventions and changes that have led to a complete disorganisation of secondary care and a complete dismantling of primary school. I would just remind you that last year's reform intervention has completely dismantled public structures and of course it has borne the hospitals with an increased burden, precisely because the effective filtering of primary care is not working. For the Lamia Hospital, the picture I have is that this is a very reliable hospital with a significant contribution to the health services of the wider region, with very good human resources, with reliable scientific staff, with very critical sections, which, of course, provides reliable services - and which, indeed, its human resources - are not sufficient and have reached its limits. This is the general picture that exists today in the health system. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We have said that this year we are fighting a battle to keep the health system upright. This battle is not being fought by the government. It gives it to the human potential of the system, which is really working conditions of intense impoverishment but also wage deprivation, and in conditions of adverse problems of everyday life, due to the shortages that exist, they are called upon to provide care in a world that has no choice but to the public system. The special problems of the hospital: In the positions we have announced - which we have made public, and which are in the final phase through the AACC to be announced. This is a first package of permanent staff notices, the first one in the last five years - five posts are planned for the Lamia Hospital. It is a small package of the huge volume of needs that exist today in the health system, which exceeds twenty thousand. They are five places: three places for nurses, one for Midwives and one for Radiology - Radiology. Also, an ancillary pathologist is under appointment. We'll immediately publish a pediatric post, since it's critical of the absence in this department. I also think that an important part that is lacking is the Radiology, which also needs reinforcement with qualified doctors, also having the critical pendingity of the Psychiatric Clinic, which in recent years only works as an external medical office. As far as the Artificial Nephrous Unit is concerned, it is known that a nephroologist, whose position was announced four, five years ago, is in the final phase of appointment. At this time, the appointments of these people are being completed. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing again and again.]] So the effort we make is being done under very difficult conditions. This attempt is to serve as far as possible the most urgent needs of the system. There is this first notice we made these days and there will be further notices of permanent staff. And because we know very well that the process is a long time ago, there will also be an invasive effort through subsidiary, medical and nursing personnel. We are already in the final phase with the appropriate ministries to obtain the relevant approvals. We will also make use of the public-benefit schemes with five-month contracts in order to cover approximately three thousand health posts there in the public health system. This year will be a difficult year, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u54	Minister, hold the rest for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u55	...I believe that with the superhuman contribution that the human resources make to hospitals, we can make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u56	Mr Stavros has the floor for a second reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u57	Minister, thank you very much for your position. The findings I referred to in my prology about the acute problems of the hospital, you know, are not only my own, but are also confirmed by the announcements made by the employees of the General Hospital of Lamia, the Association of Doctors of Hospitals and Health Centres Photidas, but also by the letter that has come to you by the former Deputy Director of the 5th Health Region. I submit the relevant documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Indeed, the interruption - and I stress this, because you did not respond - of the operation of the Ministry of Health in Lamia is a deterioration and a substantial blow to the health system of the Region of Central Greece. The only exception to the joint findings we have made on the current situation in the hospital is the temporary commander of the hospital, who has committed himself in his service note to the Health Region - which has even posted on the website of the General Hospital of Lamia - to make an evaluation of the contents of the honourable Member question. I understand that the commander is ignorant of good administrative and ethics, and that is why I am closing this issue. Minister, I understand the difficulties of the current situation and the problems you have to face. You know, the budgets don't give them the Treasury. The expenditure ceilings shall be set and each Ministry shall lay down the budgets of its bodies. These problems have also been addressed by us in the past two and a half years, having received a much less favourable situation. But during this period and as far as possible, we did three things for the Lamia Hospital. Firstly, as far as possible, the staff of the General Hospital of Lamia with medical staff was supported by some subsidiary doctors in order to cover the pressing needs of the medical departments of the hospital. It is pointed out - and I repeat it quite rightly - that the existing staff in the hospital are capable and experienced and work with reverence. I am pleased and hope you will proceed very quickly to further strengthening and staffing with hospital staff. The second thing we did is that it was modernized and supplemented by medical and technological equipment. On December 20, 2013, a further EUR 500,000 credit was secured outside the budget in order to meet medical and technological needs for the General Hospitals of Lamia, Amphissas and Karpenesi. The amount of the General Hospital of Lamia was EUR 290,000. Afterwards, on 23 September 2014, it was further secured - again outside the hospital's budget - an amount of EUR 350,000 for the acquisition of a new sixteen-mile CT scanner and a bone density meter. Therefore, despite the suffocating budgetary tightness that we both accept, it was financed, as in other hospitals in the country, to strengthen hospital equipment and upgrade health services. The supply of certain machinery has been completed while they are in a tendering procedure or in a tendering process for the supply of additional equipment. Thirdly, the new hospital agency, which provides for its development, was institutionalised, with a significant increase in beds and a strengthening of human resources. Minister, the aim of all of us should be for the Lamia General Hospital to be a modern, functional, quality, effective regional hospital in the country, which, along with the other health structures in the wider region, will be constantly upgraded and upgraded the health services provided to the citizens. We must all contribute in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, we obviously agree on the need for aid today both at the Lamia Hospital and at all the hospitals in the country. The question is what policy can be done. We must say, for our part, that the political project, which was being implemented in the previous period and which provided for a planned reduction in the public health system and the social state, led to greater deadlocks and a complete deorganisation of the health system. We must today put different political priorities as a society and as a country. And that's where the government moves. For us, public care, particularly in the period of the humanitarian crisis and health poverty, must be a central, economic, social and political priority. Because we believe that it is also a matter of dignity, it is a matter of European health standards, it is a matter of social cohesion and a question of democracy. That's why we're fighting. We have confidence in the honest and reliable potential that the health system has and we are trying to be a government that is in fact fully in line with our financial obligations towards him, despite the well-known difficulties that exist today with this deficit budget, which we are carrying out. The markets in hospitals are normally executed. I compared the data between 2014 and 2015 and there is no differentiation. Therefore, this picture of the unprecedented deficiencies, which you refer to in your question, does not correspond to the reality. Of course, there are problems with the system suppliers, there are due debts and there is a need for their regulation from September 2014 onwards. We will deal with this as well. However, the crucial issue today is to be able to support the human potential, whose morality has been tested through this cumulative negative and dissolutionist intervention, which has taken place in recent years. Things are hard, and we know that. We believe, however, that with strong political will, with the support of doctors, nursing staff, people years of age to keep public care up, we can overcome this year's difficulties and then go to a serious reorganisation of the public health system, with a turn to primary care and prevention, with interventions in the mechanisms of provoking demand, waste and corruption, still in the system, with a change of philosophy, with the reorganisation of the operation of public hospitals, with emphasis on the functioning of emergency departments and with caution and special attention to the specific sections. There will be a special notice for strengthening intensive care units, special units currently in the health system. There are too many gaps and the government, within this difficult financial framework, has set them as the first political priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. You're doing well and you've said it. The Minister of Finance, who is next door, hears them, because apart from doctors and nurses, they must also be heard by the finance ministers concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be back in order, even though we should not. But the two colleagues, Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Kegeroglu, who were here in time, must not be punished. I therefore apologise to the colleagues of the Communist Party of Greece who have asked a question to Mr Xanthos. We're moving in the order I have in front of me. The fourth will be followed by a number 203/11-5-2015 top-level question of the first cycle of the MEP of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance on the discussions of the Government on a 'double currency'. In order not to keep the Minister of Finance, who may need to leave abroad, the question of Mr Kegeroglu will then be discussed. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have learned, with relative delay, that on 28 April Greece had been the former leading economist of Deutsche Bank, Mr. Mayer, with whom you and the Prime Minister discussed his proposal for the double currency, Geuro, as the economists say. If I'm wrong, please fix me. Because Mr Tsipras does not come to the House, as Mr Venizelos has repeatedly called upon him to tell us what plan, what objective and what perspective the government is negotiating, I hope you will be able to enlighten us today. To date, we have heard too much and I do not know what yet we will hear or learn from what is irresponsible, prosperous, often and graphic, they are said. But even the last citizen knows that when you're supposed to fight hard, you're negotiating to keep the country inside the euro, you can't have conversations under the table. You cannot discuss with a selected member the bureaucracy of our partners and listen to his proposal. Let's disprove it later that you don't agree. But at the time you negotiate to listen to something like that, it means that, possibly, you have something else in your mind or you give another impression. When a debate takes place that you will pay wages and pensions with a piece of paper, which you will sign in the form of a double currency, no one takes you seriously. And, of course, you have neither the government nor any right to have such discussions, because you do not have that mandate from the people. Another command you have from the people. Your mandate is to achieve something better and to keep the country standing thanks to the sacrifices of the people for which we have paid the price and which you are now negotiating. So we expect you to tell us why you are doing all this, what your goal is and where you want to go to the country. Tell us a truth at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u62	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kutsuko, I am very happy to answer your question. Mr President, this is why there is the parliamentary procedure of scrutiny, so that there is no misinformation and no need for any Member or any citizen to rely on the various things that are written. I'll be very clear in my answer. If I hadn't had an opinion of what we talked about with Mr. Meyer when he came to my office - and then with the Prime Minister - I would have imagined you had a wire and heard. Of course, that was a joke. I know that you have not done so, for the very simple reason that of your words it is clear that you have absolutely no picture of what we have discussed. We didn't discuss what you're saying. We didn't talk about the parallel I thought. But I would like to be very clear and informative: Mr. Meyer met him last November. I was invited to a conference in Florence by Mr. Renji long before the elections were called, as an economist, and my speech preceded his speech. It was a speech about the euro crisis, not about the Greek crisis. Then Mr. Meyer surprised me, starting his speech by saying that he agrees with my position. Since then, an exchange of views has been initiated by academics, as well as politics. Mr Mayer accepted him in my office and precisely because I believe that his views are of great interest - not for the parallel currency, but for the structural crisis of the euro and for where the euro area is going - I thought it was good to have a debate with the Prime Minister on this. The disagreement on a parallel currency - 'Geuro' - which Mr Meyer has proposed in an article, I have tabled - also exists on youtube - at that November conference. So I assure you, Mr Kutsuko, that it was not the subject of the debate. I will tell you exactly what was the subject of the debate. The issue of the debate was how to make best use of public property, in the context of a development vehicle, a development bank which is part of our plans. Since I've got about one more minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u64	You'll have tolerance to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u65	Yeah, I'll finish. When I talk to other economists who are critics of the euro and who even suggest that we get out of the euro - such as Paul Crugman, Nouriel Rubini - I have not heard such criticism because I am speaking with them. Mr. Meyer, however, is interesting because he has created a noise. I'll tell you why I think that noise has been created. As you rightly said, Mr. Mayer was chief economist, Deutsche Bank's main advisor, during the crisis period and during the period when the PASOK government in May 2010 made the loan agreement. Then Mr Meyer, as he has told me, was clearly in favour of that loan agreement and, more generally, of how the euro area faced the crisis. After the PSI of ours - which was unacceptable to me, and here we have a disagreement with PASOK colleagues - he had his'surfaces'. It began to disagree with the central attitude of the German Government, the Bundesbank, the German Ministry of Finance, on how to deal with the euro crisis. I think that some - and I am not talking about you, Mr Kutsuko, here is no room for dissent and segregation - who wrote about the publications they wrote, are concerned when a person who was so - as you rightly said - part of Germany's financial system, with very good links with the German Government, who supported the Memorandum Policies at that time, is now coming and saying: 'The euro has been disastrous and what has been happening in Greece in recent years is proof of how deadly that policy has been.' Mr. President, I will close...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u66	You're comfortable with time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u67	There's no need. I'll come back to my dentistry. I think I've answered Mr. Kutsuko. But I'd like to apologize to your face...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u68	There's no question of apology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u69	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u70	I said that for my colleagues. I'd be here anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u71	No, I owe you a written answer to a question you asked me about another colleague and partner, Mr Glen Kim. I'll get it for you very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u72	Good. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u73	Apparently, Minister, I don't have any bugs. In fact, in the last period, on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic, we have seen various - 'gate' - here in our country, we have condemned them as both a party and a personal party. Unfortunately, your position yesterday put us in great concern, that you have intercepted the Eurogroup talks. You said that for confidentiality reasons you do not give them, but I imagine that you will induce the interest of the future's history when you make them public. So because we have no bugs, Minister, I saw Mr Sakellaridis' denial on May 11 - in the briefing - where he said, 'We are talking, but it does not mean that we agree' when the journalists asked him about Mr Mayer's proposal for a double currency. I saw one of your own places on a channel, walking out of the House, that you gave the same answer. So you discussed, since Mr Meyer has formulated this proposal. He may have regretted what happened at the time, but his current proposal is much more dangerous. For you, Mr Minister, have spoken about your career colleagues, supporting the drachma, but basically a debate on the double currency puts the drachma from another door. Don't tell me, Minister, that a brilliant man like you, a recognised economist, may not see the faggot behind the cheese. The face is the voluntary exit. Cheese is any other conversation about any other currency. I therefore feel that you didn't tell us the whole truth. I'm not saying you lied to us. You didn't tell us the whole truth. Minister, because we have heard too much from you all this time - we have heard that we do not want the dose, and then we are negotiating for a small dose, we have heard about the'muffain' of VAT with the cards that would be taken back, and we do not take it, we have heard about the well-off 'rufian tourists', we have heard infinitely - let me have a reservation. Indeed, it would be interesting for the people to be able to judge the credibility of the so-called ones sooner or later. Because, Minister, I would like to tell you this: you are not in charge of an academic in the Ministry of Finance. You represent the government and you must work for the goals of the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We therefore call on you - and Mr Venizelos has also called on you to submit the instruments of ratification of the main loan agreement, but also Mr Tsipras - a more clarity on where the debate is included each time something you say and whether it serves a national objective, which must ultimately be a successful negotiation. Because - and I conclude, Mr President - or you do not have a plan and you will take us to a dead end, to the rocks, or to a plan, which the people will pay very expensively, with a very large account, which will in the end send him to SYRIZA, as the previous one has sent us. One of them is happening. So tell us the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u74	I am sorry, Minister, before I give you the floor to conclude and deliver the seat to my colleague, Mr Ioannis Balafas, I would like to make some announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Friday 22 May 2015. A. FURTHER Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 206/12-5-2015 topical question by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the delay of payments to the Cooperatives of the Lower Neuroscope of the Drama Prefecture from the Green Fund. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 199/8-5-2015, a topical question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr. Nicholas Panayotopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the need for government intervention to claim compensation from European resources for the flooding phenomena in Tena Falls. 3. The Question No 166/28-4-2015 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the exploitation of our national wealth and energy policy. 4. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning recourse to the justice of television stations to the decisions of the Minister of State to pay the fee for the use of frequencies. 5. The 131/21-4-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the launch of the program "Home Settlement" under the Partnership Agreement (EPC) 2014-2020 and the relaunch of the building activity. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by Mr Iasona Fotidas to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy regarding the construction of the Peninsula Canal in the West Achaia area. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1402/1-4-2015 question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the delay in the suspension of Forest Papers and measures to protect forests and forest lands. 3. The question asked by MP II, Mr Georgios Amyras, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the commitments made by the Government on environmental and energy issues. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the River Mr Spyridon Danellis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy about the delays in payments of the “House Settlement” programme. 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy about the biomass plant in Kopanadas in P.E. Hercules. 6. The question asked by Mr Andreas Loverdos by MP II of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the Regulatory Authority for Energy. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having previously participated in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and two educational attendants from the 6th Elementary School of the Old Faliros and thirty-five students and three educational attendants from the 112th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you and welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have three minutes to complete your second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kutsuko, let's be clear. First of all, I respect the question you raised me and I am not going to go along with a more general debate on economic policy or to respond to the points you leave on my face. That's not my target here. My goal is to answer your question. And your question was clear and reasonable. Did we talk to Mr. Meyer about the parallel coin? Oh, no. Do we have the opportunity to discuss with important people who have played a role - and play a role - in the financial system and, more generally, in the eurozone, issues that concern you and us and the Greek society, without being identified with them? In other words, are we only talking about the people we agree with? That would have nothing to do with it. I am clear and I repeat what I said earlier: The subject of our debate - neither in which we agreed, but it was interesting to exchange views - concerned the way in which public property and, in particular, the shares that hold the public after privatisation, such as the shares of OTE or the shares that will be retained by the Greek State if another asset is privatised, can be exploited as part of a development vehicle. Mr Meyer has specific opinions and suggestions, which are even expelled from his experience in German territory, in the German economy. That was the subject of the debate. You asked me whether we discussed the parallel currency, and, if not, what we discussed. I think I'm willing to answer you. If you have reservations, I would ask you to keep them for yourself until you have any evidence that the Minister is lying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the next question, which Mr Varoufakis will also answer. It is the fifth under No. 180/4-5-2015 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the complaint of SYRIZA when it was opposition to the regulation tabled by Amendment 1251/67/7-3-2014 and joined the n. 4250/26-2014 and related to fines of 1.2 billion of the Ministry of Administrative Reform. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Just as you said, SYRIZA as opposition in March 2014 had criticised, criticised, denounced the government at the time and, of course, the MPs who supported this provision, which, in the documentation of the Ministry of Finance, aimed at a fair treatment of ‘double’ taxation, which suffered specific activities and which came to restore things. SYRIZA has therefore denounced that 1,2 billion are being given and, indeed, the specific commitment of SYRIZA was that these 1,2 billion will be recovered by lifting, on the one hand, this provision and, on the other, concrete actions. The second element I join in the question is the resumption of these complaints by Mr Solis recently, in March 2015, that is, one year later, when he reiterated that this was the case. In fact, he also named the companies, the MOTOR OIL and the ELPEs. Of course, he didn't stand there, but he also put the Piraeus Bank in. I will also present the relevant publication of the newspaper 'AUGIY', although in the Minutes there is the relative position of Mr Army - I confirmed it - who, as a government himself and as a Minister of Social Security, also reiterated that this will be implemented, because it is a pre-election commitment of SYRIZA. I would therefore like the Minister to tell us today whether he will finally recover the 1.2 billion, which is so necessary for the financing of the country - unless he considers it an inappropriate sum and does not deal with the government - and when he will. It's been five months already. There is no legislative pressure. As far as you know, Mr President, three quarters of a year is concerned, only with questions that go hand in hand with them. We are not involved in legislative work. Let's bring the order, let's all vote, get back to 1.2 billion. That's what I'm asking the Minister for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a new Member and perhaps I am not aware of the procedures. But it seems a little paradoxical to me to ask a question about Mr Army. I don't understand why Mr. Army isn't asking the question. You will allow me not to answer Mr. Army's question. I don't think that's reasonable. But you will allow me instead. To focus on the question. What's the matter? It is about combating tax evasion through triangular transactions, through tax havens, which are built behind the wall to protect the avoidance of double taxation. I want - because I have been trying to be as specific as possible in my answer, because I think this is a very important debate - to make a small, brief historical regression: the first attempt in recent years to combat tax evasion through triangular transactions has been made - and very well done - by the PASOK Government in 2010. I would remind you that at the beginning of the memorandum, a provision under Law 3742/2010, which prohibits spending on triangular transactions from being recognised. And that was an unchallenged presumption. That was very right. The same law stipulates that expenditure is not recognised when the transaction is made with natural or legal persons or legal entities established in non-cooperative States in tax havens. It was also established that the costs incurred with undertakings established in States with a preferential tax regime were not recognised unless the taxpayer can demonstrate that these costs relate to real and ordinary transactions. That was the law of PASOK in 2010. In 2011, Law 3943 provides that expenditure is recognised when the transaction is made with natural or legal persons or legal entities established in non-cooperative States if the person concerned proves that they relate to real and ordinary transactions, i.e. the non-challenge is converted into a fightable presumption. And then the big change comes, the big overthrow begins. In January 2013, with the n. 4110, the prohibition on the recognition of expenditure by triangular transactions shall be abolished and that provision shall enter into force from the year 2012 onwards. Then, on 21 August 2013, the then Secretary-General of Public Revenue, Mr. Theocharis, adopts Decision No. 1198, which stipulates that costs from triangular transactions for 2010 and 2011 can be recognised as long as the undertaking demonstrates that these transactions are real and ordinary. A circular, however, like its, does not, as all colleagues understand, produce fair and certainly would not be able to amend the current provisions of the law at the time. It needed legislation on this. In 2014, instead of collecting taxes, fines and surcharges of hundreds of millions of euros for the uses of 2010 and 2011 - fines imposed on companies operating in triangular transactions via offshore - and putting an end to this sinful regime, as the legislator of PASOK in 2010, promoted the legislation that would solve the problem of fines and ultimately taxes, fines and increases would be deleted. We are therefore arriving in 2014 where Amendment No 1 is tabled. 4250 you mentioned, Mr Kegeroglou, and by this arrangement, the provision that established the prohibition of recognition of expenditure by triangular transactions is reintroduced, but the following subparagraph is inserted: ‘In the case of real and ordinary transactions in the part corresponding to prices within the range of prices on transaction days, which are made on commodity exchanges or on organised stock exchanges, then the costs of triangular transactions are recognised’. The aim of the amendment was to remove fines imposed following tax controls on large Greek oil and business groups that had purchased through third parties in breach of tax legislation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the complaints made by SYRIZA at the time were correct. And in no case was it the result of some propagandaist mood. In conclusion, the previous governments, trying to exempt companies from the rules on triangular transactions and delete the fines already imposed, are trying to find legal artifacts. Finally, they succeeded after four years in conflict with the original intention of the PASOK Government of 2010 and after repeated efforts by voting for Amendment 4250/2014 to recognise as the exit of refineries the crude oil market, when the cost of the purchase is due to a natural or legal person or a legal entity whose activity in this transaction was exhausted in the pricing and delivery of goods or the provision of services was carried out by a third person. As a government - to close, Mr President - it is clear that we are aiming to combat tax evasion through triangular transactions through transactions with countries with preferential tax regimes. Our first attempt was made in Article 21 of the Treaty. 4321. Our Ministry and our Deputy Minister, Mr. Valavani, are working on a decision making with details of how this will be done. As regards your question about the recovery of 1.2 billion, I can assure you that our legal services under the law do everything they can to investigate the Greek government's potential to cancel the huge loss due to the previous government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u81	As I was listening to the seven minutes which the Minister spoke, Mr President, I remembered the popular word'many words are poverty'. In this case, I am not talking about economic poverty, but about misguided arguments. The question is specific. Why these 880 million, because this is what the two companies in question have been exonerated - and we have been convinced that they have rightly been exonerated, that is why we voted, because it was fair to deal with double taxation - there is no provision, regulation, now, yesterday, for the Minister to tell us when, in order to be recovered? Just stuff. The 'peripherals', the excuses, legal services and all that is relevant is to avoid the question. Look, either you were right and you would bring the order to recover it and then go after the two companies how they would overturn it to avoid paying the 880 million - this is a political initiative and a solution - or you would say that this provision rightly exempted the two companies concerned from double taxation. There's no way in between. Clean things. And I don't make any use of time. That's it, Minister. This is "principals" no. Other ‘peripherals’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u83	Indeed, Mr Colleague, many words are poverty. We won't be out of the question. Legal services work so that any intervention and amendment we table will be in accordance with the laws and the constitution of the country. What has happened in the past, which the executive has been ignoring in her knowledge by leaving matters to the courts, is not going to happen to us. Whether, Mr Kegeroglu, you are right that the fines are correctly, legally and morally deleted from the two specific companies, the Greek people will judge them. He's already judged it and convicted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u84	The people will judge it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the third with number 211/12-5-2015 topical question by Evia MP from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Georgiou Marinos to the Minister of Health, on problems in the hospitals and health centres of Evia. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr Marinos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we want to welcome yesterday's great strike mobilisation of health workers and stress that at the time the situation is getting worse, in hospitals, in health centres, in all public structures, which are exacerbating the problems of primary health care, it is important that workers do not show tolerance. Do not pass this slogan of the Ministry of Health and the Minister of State asking for credit for time, because here, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about human lives, and the situation is dramatic. I have heard Mr Stavoura, who spoke about the Lamia Hospital, and because I know the hospitals and health centres in Central Greece for many years, I would like to say that the New Democracy and the PASOK really have great responsibilities for sub-financing, for the major shortages in medical, nursing and other staff, for the shortages of medical equipment, for the exacerbation of all the problems. However, today's SYRIZA - ANEL co-government follows this very path of trade in health, underfunding, the implementation of the European Union's dangerous strategy. This policy is exacerbating the problems. In this situation, the exacerbation of the major problems is found at the Hospital of Chalkida, the Health Centers of Istia, the Psachnas, the Alive. In this situation are the hospitals of Lamia, Amphissa, Karpesi, Livadea and Thebe. The problems are, in particular, a lack of medical, nursing staff of 40% or 50%, even in relation to the organizational chart, with the organic positions behind the needs. There is a great problem of funding. They have received a very small portion of the forecasts from the 2015 State Budget, which was 23% reduced compared to 2014. The shortages in medical equipment and maintenance problems are very large. We have great shortages of consumables. I will only say in total that it is not possible for the CT scanner at the Chalkida Hospital to operate for five days and not on a 24-hour basis because there are staff problems. That's the situation. I would like to point out that year after year and in public health structures, in Evia and in total in Central, there is the following phenomenon: Workers, patients pay more and more for examinations, for medicines and have more and more degraded services. And it also applies to health workers that year after year wages are reduced and they have now reached the point that they are not paid due, including on-calls. On this basis we ask the Minister what measures he intends to take by the Ministry, the government, to deal with these problems of sub-financing, the secondment of hospitals, health centres in Evia and Central America, which we will be coming back to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, we have had this debate many times on the occasion of questions tabled by your party's parliamentary group, highlighting the problems of public care, which are well known. I think the description has no exaggeration. Yesterday there was a strike mobilisation in the public health system. We consider this to be a cry of agony for doctors and the rest of the staff for these problems, and we believe that it is not a mobilisation that is counterproductive to the efforts made by the government to stabilise the functioning of the health system in a fundamental way and to reverse the course of dissolving it. We really respect both the effort and the contribution of human resources, which is indeed impoverished wages and depleted working time at this time, and that is why we are trying to be elementary in our obligations towards him. Currently deposited in the codes, hospital accounts, by the General Accounting Office of the State, the money to pay back the doctors' newspapers in the first three months of 2015. We also made our commitment - you know that very well, although we were questioned this - on April 27th in almost all hospitals for the payment of recruits, doctors and other staff, from unfinished to the end of 2014. We have been through legislation and the corresponding repayment of the first quarter of 2015 for the other staff will proceed in June, in these very difficult circumstances, which you know very well, the budgetary and operational conditions that the system has. Deorganisation is obvious and, in our view, was part of a political plan. It was a political plan to load the burdens of the crisis on wage labour, on the middle class and on the social state and to support the banks and the financial markets. This political plan ended with the vote of our society and our people on 25 January. The dissolution picture and reality, however, which exists in the health system, cannot be significantly reversed for the citizen and for the worker in the system at such short notice. But we are moving in this direction. Of course we have a budget of austerity and austerity, ladies and gentlemen, it is not annulled by policies and by legislation alone. It is a matter of constant effort. We trust social and political struggles. The success of this government will be judged to the extent that it will succeed in mobilising and assembling and energising the most honest and reliable forces that society has, in particular, the health system and with the workers, we will continue to fight hard to meet these enormous uncovered needs, which you have also shown. With regard to this part of the reference to hospitals in the Evia region, the first package of permanent staff, nine hundred and sixteen posts of nurses and other paramedical staff were published the day before yesterday. This has been done for six years in the health system, a proclamation of permanent medical staff. Is that too little? Sure. Does it meet the needs? Obviously not. But it's a first package. Other equivalent staff packages will follow, all over the country. This package for the Chalkida Hospital provides five places for the Hospital - Karystos Health Center - three posts plus two posts for doctors, one orthopaedic and one surgeon, who are to be appointed by promoting and speeding up the procedures of the old crises that we are carrying out, and for the Hospital - Kymi Health Center there are also three other posts plus two permanent posts for doctors, pediatricians and pathologists, which are also promoted by old crises, frozen for five years. So our will is by careful steps, with studied moves, to reverse the path of dissolution of the health system. And we will do that in cooperation with the human resources of the system, which actually gives a superhumane battle to keep hospitals and health centres upright and provide reliable services to a society living in a humanitarian crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine graduate students from the Brech School of Business Drory University. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Marino, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say to the Minister that with wishes, with slogans, problems are not solved, and even so acutely. Indeed, the policy of previous years, which has served with fanaticism the interests of the major economic groups, has loaded the capitalist crisis on the back of our people, has made it bankrupt and exacerbated the health and welfare problems. That is exactly what we say, that the government's policy is moving in the same direction. It's not a matter of time, it's a question of direction. The government, now that we are talking about, retains the Memorandum and all these anti-grassroots laws, for which it was electorally a matter of abolishing. The Communist Party of Greece has submitted, as early as February, a proposal for a law to be abolished and within this attempt to abolish this anti-Hallian regime we also raise issues of the abolition of laws relating to health and welfare. It is therefore a matter of direction. The government is continuing precisely the anti-grassroots policy that exacerbates the conditions for protecting the health of our people. After all, there is one undeniable criterion here: the defence, Minister, of the European Union's strategy, of this strategy that you know, which connects health and development and for the next period has designed many actions, for the period 2014-2020. What does this plan provide for? It provides for a reduction in both wage and non-wage costs, i.e. a reduction in health care services. It plans to load new burdens on the people's families and on the sanitary. The second element, which the government is defending, is the competitive and sustainable health units. What does that mean? It means strengthening the entrepreneurship element and confirms this criticism by the Communist Party of Greece, that over the years the policy of governments, and the previous ones, and the coexistence of SYRIZA - ANEL, has led precisely here: hospitals and health centers - businesses and patients - customers. There is no way - I repeat - with a wish to solve problems. He said the Minister was calling for nine hundred jobs. Let me just say that over the last three years, jobs have been down to about five thousand two thousand, mainly because of retirement. So it's not just a drop in the ocean these positions, but it's a maintenance, a perpetuation of the same dangerous situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude by saying: The marketing of health, the strengthening of large monopolistic groups and the competition that is being created and which is indeed in the context of this position of the Government on the coexistence of the public and private sectors are making the situation worse by the people's families. Underfinancing is not justified by the fact that we have no money, because the government yesterday voted for a legislative act giving millions of large companies responsible for breaches of tax legislation even for smuggling. It gives billions to lenders for a debt that the Greek people did not create. That is why we must continue to fight and continue to fight is indeed contrary to this anti-Flemish government policy. The JRC's opinion - and in this direction I will move and end with it, Mr President - is that all the forces to concentrate their attention within the working people's movement, on health and on claiming an exclusively free public health care system, with the prevention, with primary care, of an upgrade of services in hospitals, with funding required by the state budget, covering all the shortcomings. And we are talking about Evia and Chalkida Hospital and Kymi, as well as Kyristos and health centers, the same about Sterea. To stop the carpeting. The people still pay carpets. It shall pay one euro per prescription. He pays 15% for the tests in private diagnostic centers. He has no obligation. It pays tax and it needs to claim free health services. We will continue in the next period and we will bring the problems of health centres and hospitals to the House and the whole of the health system in Central Greece. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u92	My dear colleague, obviously we have a political disagreement. You tell us we're in the same direction. I told you what the previous political plan was, which, in fact, provided for the transfer of costs and the burden of the patient and the citizen for health services and you say that we are continuing the same political project, serving European policy, etc. So I ask: is the same political project of abolishing the five-day and facilitating citizens' access to health centres and hospitals? Is the same political project an institutional response to the exclusion of uninsured people we have been promoting these days? Is it part of the same political plan to extend the term of executive staff to public hospitals, so that we do not have any human resources leaks this year? Is it an element of the same political plan to call permanent posts after six years in the health system - inadequate, inadequate - as the first package? That was mature to be proclaimed. There will be further notices. We have talked about strengthening the health system as a whole, together with permanent and subsidiary staff, but also of all kinds of work that can keep public care up. Is it an element of the same political plan to prepare for a serious reform in primary care, in holistic care, in public primary care? And we will have the opportunity to discuss this at some point in the Chamber as a legislative initiative in the next few weeks. In our view, therefore, this government has given top political priority to defending public care. We are people of public care, we have fought with you for public care, ladies and gentlemen, and we have no reason to dismiss our personal and collective credibility in defending what you are saying, a plan to dismantle public care. It is a matter of social cohesion, it is a matter of dignity for the citizens and it is also a question of democracy to have at this stage of health poverty and humanitarian crisis a credible health system and to make sure that we do so seriously, with studied moves and with respect for the human resources of the system, which will give this tough battle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Minister. We move to the second with No 1677/9-4-2015 question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of primary health care. The Deputy Minister will answer. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will start where the previous speaker, Mr Marinos, left off, and I will say that the situation in our country's health system is tragic. It is tragic because it is the result of the ongoing policy of subsistence and degradation of public health structures with an obvious objective on the one hand, the further commercialisation of health services and, on the other, the savings of funds for the payment of loans that our people have certainly not received. It is a policy that you have received and that, with the oaths of faith you give the European Union and the capitalist system, you continue. These are the priorities of this policy: privatization of everything, commercialisation of everything and resources in order to repay loans that our people have not received. I'm going to pass on a personal experience I had 15 days ago when my relative had to be hospitalized for a week at the Jamaica Hospital. He entered a chamber with seven other patients in a space that could fit up to six beds. The result of this "flood" was that patients were forced to put bags in their clothing or other supplies under their beds and make it difficult both to visit and provide medical services to the patient. On the day of the income, the sheets brought were really rags and after lending from another clinic a sheet was found in a better condition. Medical and nursing staff, due to staff shortages, worked under intensification and neutralization conditions. For example, the morning shift seven to three and then, on the same day, 11 to seven in the morning. This, however, did not affect their behaviour with patients, which was impeccable and the quality of the services provided highly. These are a completely personal and recent experience. Now I'm coming to Lesvos. The situation at both Mytilini PEDY and the four health centers of the island is equally tragic. With regard to the Mytilini PEN: Since March 2014, when IKA was converted into PEDY, it continues to work only at the Mytilini store - it was abolished of this Gera - with huge deficiencies due to the departure of the doctors of the former IKA. Today it works with only five doctors while serving forty. These five are full-time and full-time. Two general doctors and one doctor on a daily basis are added to them by health centers and regional doctors, and alternately one to two times a week meet the needs of four other general doctors from regional doctors near the city. From the 15-3-2015, that is, recently, the afternoon shift is not working until the seventh afternoon. The doctors close at three o'clock at noon, because the only doctor, seconded by Piraeus, returned to her home. The result of this is to trouble workers and insured persons who cannot be served for prescribing. The specialities of doctors who serve are: pathologist, pneumonologist, gynaecologist, microbiologist, cytologist and dentist. Key specialities such as pediatrician, ophthalmologist, surgeon, ophthalmologist, cardiologist, radiologist and orthopaedic are missing. In radiology, there is only one technician, from whom the X-rays are made, and the diagnoses are made in the hospital. The only dentist cannot do any prosthetic work, because for thirty - five years there has been no dentist. In addition, the dentist's radiology machine is not working from two years old. There are often problems and shortages of materials in technological equipment, reagents and consumables. The other health and administrative staff shall be minimal. There are only nine nurses, three midwifes, one appearanceist and four technological manufacturers. This staff is not enough to cover up to 12 hours of operation. The gaps in administrative staff are covered with voucher. The situation in the four health centers of the island is similar. In my dentistry, I may refer to details. So we ask, Minister: What measures does the government intend to take immediately to: Recruitment of all necessary permanent staff of all specialties, doctors, nurses, assistants and managers to ensure that both the PES and the health centres and the regional hospitals of Lesvos are fully covered in order to meet the health needs of the inhabitants of the island? To provide the necessary funding from the State budget in order to directly meet the needs for technological equipment, medicines, health and other consumables for their proper functioning? To equip all health centres with the necessary ambulances, staffed with the appropriate staff, so that the needs of the island's residents can be properly and correctly met? Of course, what we claim is an exclusively public and free health system without any business action in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, dear colleague, for the question. I think that the situation in the Lesbos region is adequately analysed in the area of public health services, with particular emphasis on primary health care, as you have done. In fact - and I think it is a common place - the intervention that took place last year under Law 4238, which was supposed to reform primary care, led to the complete disorganisation and dismantling of public structures, which had been functioning until then, which had problems with which they had distortions, because it was a system parallel to the public health system, with multiple employment relationships, etc., but which offered reliable and, above all, free services to the insured. This system today has been disorganized. In particular, at the unit of the Mytilini PEDU from what I have been informed, more than 40 - forty - five doctors are now serving five. So this has practically transformed the insured of this country to functionally uninsured. Because to have basic services and medical care they are forced to pay ever more money than their pockets. Apart from the fact that there has also been a very large part of society, which has remained excluded and for which we are trying today to facilitate access to it. What, therefore, is now pending is, in our opinion, essentially to organise a serious primary health care system in the country, which has another logic, with an emphasis on public structures, the logic of their organization with a core of family doctors, the civil or agricultural health centre, satellite regional hospitals and neighborhood doctors in large urban centres, with health establishments, or rather with health groups, that is to say, not with a narrow medical culture in their organisation, which will have a population of responsibility, which is the logic of the patient's holistic approach to prevention, vaccination, pre-supposing control, until of course the monitoring of chronic diseases and the reference to specialised services of the health system. This is another culture and another concept of primary health care, and I believe that we will have the opportunity in this year to discuss it with all political forces and to have a serious reform of a crucial issue pending thirty years after the establishment of the National Health System. With regard to the staffing of specific structures in your area, what I can say today is that, first, there will be a reintroduction of the six hundred and twenty atrocities of subsidiary doctors' positions for primary care arising from the prior government's notice. Of the nineteen places, only two hundred eighty were interested. Six hundred and twenty empty spaces are left. These positions will be launched with particular emphasis on structures in the health centres of island and arid regions and we will try - we are currently promoting this with the regions - to strengthen the incentives for attraction. Because that is the big problem, ladies and gentlemen: unfortunately we are at a stage that has been signalled - it had been given in the previous period - that the health system is going for dissolution and that young scientists have no future in this country. Today, lists of specialists in public hospitals are empty. Positions are being proclaimed and there is no interest. On your island there are time gaps in five regional medical establishments, which have been some since 2013 since I was informed by the services. There are gaps between 2013 and 2014 and despite the fact that the posts are being proclaimed, they do not even go to rural doctors in them. We must therefore give a serious signal with a plan to reverse this situation and re-evaluate young doctors in particular to the country's public health system. In the distributions we will make for the other permanent and subsidiary staff in the next period, in addition to this first package that I have said before, there will be special attention to these areas. We have also said publicly that priority will be given to both island Greece and the border, to the barren and inappropriate areas of the country which are, unfortunately, very neglected. There were deficits and before the crisis, and this is the levelling-off came, the memorandum and it has dissolved everything, and it has widened inequalities and people feel unsafe and helpless at the time of illness. And this is a matter of honour for the government and dignity of all of us to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr. Tassos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will not question your good intentions. But you know, in order to be able to make policy, they need resources. How is it possible to do everything you say when state funding in hospitals and in general in the health system has been reduced by a second to a third? How it is possible to attract doctors when the wages are hunger wages. You referred previously to the five euros that you abolished. I say that, yes, the five euros that you abolished are a total of twenty million euros a year. Patients, however, pay four hundred million euros for exams. This is therefore a drop in the ocean and is not a substantial interference. Of course, five euros will be abolished. We voted for it. There is no doubt about that. But much more resources are needed to do all that you say. What we are saying is within the European Union and the capitalist system - because that is the European Union - is not allowed by the system itself. The system is not interested in meeting social needs. The system is interested in profitability, which is why it introduces business activity in the health sector as well. Because the health sector, as one that cannot be avoided by another, is a very good area for the profitability of capital. That is what it is trying to do now in times of crisis: enter areas that the other can't avoid, in education, health and welfare. The logic is simple: do you have any money? You're gonna be okay. Do you have any money? You'll learn letters. Do you have any money? You'll be retired. Doesn't he have any money? Then he died. It's your problem. That's the logic. For this reason, we say that no one can claim that there can be solutions within the framework of the capitalist system and the European Union that really serve and satisfy the need for the people's health. So that's what we're telling you. In fact, in order to be able to make such a policy - and I say again that I do not doubt that this is your intention - this cannot be done in a process of social dialogue. This can only be done in a breakthrough process with this system. It's no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that this political debate is taking an interest in this. If you do not question the good intention and if you do not question the measures which we are taking, in general, are in the right direction, I think you really ought to accept that there should be a channel of political cooperation with the government, maintaining our strategies, ideological and political differences. Because if you say that all of this presupposes the overthrow of capitalism and we must now say that we are all agreed on it, I think that you are excluding shocks and alliances that are necessary today, at a time when our country is giving us a very tough political battle within Europe to challenge the dominant capitalist response to the crisis, which is austerity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u101	We intervene every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u102	This is happening these days, ladies and gentlemen. For the first time, a country with democratically elected government after the crisis in Europe called into question the dominant recipe. That is why there has been this harsh reaction from all economic and political establishments both domestically and abroad. That is why the government also needs support at this stage in order to be able to effectively give this battle to ensure that it is clearly an honest and decent agreement. The political choice and mandate that we have received from this society is within Europe, broadening cracks, increasing alliances between social and political ones and constantly trying to change social and political relations. That's how history goes. This is the view of the Left on how social reality, unfavourable for the worker and for the world, for the classly oppressed, ladies and gentlemen. This battle is being fought by the government. The issue of the sustainable financing of the health system is very critical and important. Evidently, in the context of neoliberal Europe, it is difficult today. But we trust the dynamics of the political struggles. If we consider it all to be 'black, dark and the horror', it makes no sense, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u103	Stay away from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u104	That is the definition of political defeat. We are today giving the battle under adverse conditions, in order to broaden and facilitate the struggle for society and its empowerment. That is why we believe that it is not a question of negotiating capacity alone. It is not even a question of firm political attitude. It is a matter of inspiration, vigilance and aggregation of social forces that need to change courses both in the country and in Europe. For the sustainable financing of the system there is obviously a need for too many things. In other words, we need to deal with storms of demand, waste and corruption that exist in the health and exploitation system of the disease. We have no reason to offer political immunity to these pathogens and distortions that we all know about. It is an institutional change in the way supplies are operated in public hospitals and the drug sector. It is a matter, of course, of developing and relaunching the economy, to have a sustainable, insurance system. But it is also a question of redistributing wealth and, finally, of changing the tax system so that the wealth produced in this country - and it is also produced in crisis conditions, although it is reduced by 25% - is taxed at its source, not making deposits abroad and hiding in offshore companies and being able to finance a serious public health system and a reliable social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u106	Reality will... (It hasn't been heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Marino, you don't have the floor. Here is the third question with No 405/25/3-3-2015 and application for the submission of documents by the MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the devaluation of the guaranteed Social Income. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Theanos Fotou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. However, whatever the case may be, the Communist Party of Greece which asks or the Minister of Government who answers, in relation to how to deal with problems, one thing is certain: that the problems remain, are intensified, we have entered a new cycle of recession, which accumulates new, insuperable obstacles to the exit from the crisis. This morning we heard two good news: One is that the evaluation of the programme has been successfully completed and the second is that there has been successful lending through the auction of interest stamps with a negative sign. Both news, unfortunately, is not about our country. The first concerns Cyprus and the second concerns Portugal. We have tabled a question to the Minister of Finance on specific questions, but we have not received answers. I hope, or rather I have good hopes, that the Minister of Fire will answer our questions. Because, in addition to words, it also shows works, in other words, it is moving on the great issue of dealing with poverty and, in particular, with extreme poverty, which has increased to a large extent over the years of the crisis. In particular, I want the Minister to inform us about Guaranteed Social Income, the pilot project that we started in November 2014. One thing is, when it is planned to pay the financial aid to the beneficiaries who joined the programme and how many people have finally been assessed and put into it so far. Secondly, and very importantly, in my view, it is to see when it is to be evaluated so that we can capture the errors, omissions or what must change in terms of its structure and manner of implementation, so that we can move from the pilot in the universal programme, that is to say, to expand and expand throughout the country. Of course, an important issue is how through the guaranteed income for the beneficiaries, in synergy with the European Social Fund - I am referring to the pilot project - we will make use of 20 million to give your employment opportunities to people who are experiencing this phenomenon. In the second part, with the discourse of the Minister and my own, I would suggest that we look at the synergy of the institution of the Guaranteed Social Income with other programmes, such as the programme to tackle the humanitarian crisis, which is based on the law adopted by the Government and which is under way, the European Fund for the most deprived, the poverty-sharing structures already in operation in municipalities and, indeed, they have mobility these days. So we need to see how all this can give an answer to the basic question, namely how to deal with the phenomenon of extreme poverty. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u110	Mr Kegeroglu, first of all I know that you are well aware of this, because you were sitting before me in this chair that I am sitting on now. Also, thank you for your good words. I would like to remind you that you did indeed implement with your own joint ministerial decision, signed by other ministers, in November 2014, for the first time in the country, the Minimum Guaranteed Income, which was a Memorandum Requirement, as it had been voted on in 2012, with v. 4093. I would also remind you that the Minimum Guaranteed Income is a recipe for the International Monetary Fund, which in which it is introduced. Of course, this does not mean that the Minimum Guaranteed Income does not apply today to all European countries, but under conditions which are extremely different in terms of unemployment, tax evasion and black labour. That is what we'll be putting later on and I think we'll have a nice conversation together. I recall what you have already done, namely that you have guaranteed 20 million for the pilot project designed by the World Bank, compared with 2 million for the design, supervision and evaluation of only five municipalities from thirteen, to which would be piloted throughout the country. Recall the municipalities: It was Drama, Edessa, Grevena, Ioannina, Karditsa, Lefkada, Mesolonghi, Chalkida, Kallithea, Tripoli, Samos, Syros and Malevizi Crete. Of these thirteen municipalities, thirty-two thousand applications have been recorded so far, asking for them to be integrated on the basis of the information system you had built with HICP. Of these applications today we have the following data: firstly, five thousand have been rejected so far because they were not considered to be entitled to join. Of course, objections have also been made, as the CSR quite rightly predicted, which are being re-examined. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr. President, excuse me. Give me a little more time, if the questioner allows, because all these detailed information has been requested. Eleven thousand applications are pending. What have we paid so far? You, Mr Kegeroglu, the previous government, disbursed from 20 million 3 million and we disbursed 10 million to date, i.e. 13.417 000 euros. It's not exactly 3 million and 10 million, but - anyway - you know exactly how much it is. So we disbursed 13,417,000 euros. What have we paid? We've only paid four months of the six months of the program for these municipalities I told you about. Right? That's the first. Secondly, what is left to pay, Mr. Kegeroglu? It remains to be paid, in our estimates, from 5 million to 10 million, and that depends on how much final applications will have been cleared and approved. Otistin, the program has fallen out. The 20 million that the World Bank has put forward and underestimated - I am not saying that you have done so - will be 30 million. Unfortunately, however, in the CSCE, which you, Mr Kegeroglu, have made, it is expressly stated: 'The programme is to be implemented until the amount available is exhausted, i.e. 20 million'. So, what do we do, Mr. Kegeroglu, now? Are we going to make the rest of the money? Are we going to give it to the world, or are we going to reach 20 million and stop? We say, then, that we will try to find them, because we are obviously a state in which when the previous government promises one thing, the next one cannot say 'Now I'm not giving them to you!' But the 8 million we don't have for this programme. We called on the World Bank and told her: 'To tell us exactly how you evaluate the programme to date.' He has asked for three months for an extension for a long time, because the reports he has brought us were inadequate and we have given it an extension. We did two working meetings with Mrs Antonopoulou and the World Bank. In one case he told us that, based on all the elements he has understood, the second pillar of the programme concerning services, as you well know and mentioned in your question, namely the Social Invoice of Energy, the Municipal Invoice, free movement, free medical care, etc., is not progressing satisfactorily, because the municipalities do not have the appropriate infrastructure to go ahead. We also asked her - because we also knew it - about the third pillar and the most important, that is to say, the finding of work. He said to us: 'If he does not go almost at all'.' And how, of course, can this job insurance be done when you know that you have one and a half million unemployed? To conclude, let me say that, as you know, we are waiting and told the World Bank that there are problems with the institution, as it is implemented in Greece. The World Bank has admitted that there are problems, that there is a need for redesign. At the same time, our Ministry's services in the two-month evaluation report say: Firstly, it is difficult to complete the application by the beneficiaries. Secondly, difficulties in the process of confirming the fields of the application by the social services of the municipalities, which are not sufficient. Thirdly, difficulties in obtaining the supporting documents from the beneficiaries. Fourthly, difficulties in carrying out social research. Finally, Pylons II and III cannot be implemented. The Ministry's services tell me this, not SYRIZA. "Summary," says the services of the Ministry, "there is an impossibility for implementation, because KYA is unclear and problematic, as a result of the failure of the project management team to interpret the problematic provisions, operational capacity and preparedness of stakeholders in great weakness, subordinated municipal services, mainly to social operators, lack of interconnection of involved services, problematic readiness of information systems" and so on. That is the assessment I have had so far by both the services and the debate with the World Bank. Excuse me for the long time I talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and two educational attendants from the 5th Municipal School of Transition. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u112	I believe that evaluators, whoever they are, will not refuse to evaluate their assessments, that they do not consider that they are above assessment and criticism. Look, in public life, in public administration, whatever application system you get, you will see that there is a difficulty in completing the application, to which the services refer. And when do we have more difficulties? When we're dealing with people who are in this category. No, of course not. There are, however, many people marginalized, who do not even know the programme and need information. There are others who cannot complement a difficult, indeed, application, but which has an innovation. If public services or some of the public services cannot understand the innovation that exists in this programme, we will not be able to implement it. What innovation does this programme have? Through a complex process, in fact, which should be carried out in cooperation with the services of the municipalities or any other services you think to put now, the real situation of the human being who is experiencing poverty is reflected in this time, not in 2013 that you had to put them in the humanitarian crisis programme, because they had not made tax declarations from there on. We are talking about the time running, that is, the day he makes the application and the 12 previous months, what incomes he actually has in order to be able to survive. That's not easy. I'd explained it to the services when they said it to me. It is not easy, but it is necessary to do so. We will not make an application with three lines to get this over with, but it will not reflect the real situation. It is not a question of controversy, of course, but it is about not taking a priori what some people have said about difficulties, etc. Is it not the job of the hardship person who's talking about it, is it not an extra difficulty? We need solutions. So this group that makes the evaluation - I don't know who it is - should propose solutions to these specific issues. I therefore believe that, first of all, on the issue of the budget you raised up to 20,000 000, there are 7 000 000 to be paid. Tell us when the 7,000,000 will be paid. Second theme, does the HR need to be amended? Sure. If it turns out that it takes not 20,000,000 to the financial regulation, but 25,000,000, the CIA will be modified, and what it says is about 20,000,000, there will be 25,000,000. The financial services and the General Accounting Office of the State will take over to modify their respective codes to transfer the money. There's money in the budget to be transferred. I do not think that is the major issue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The major issue is to see whether this institution can actually be completed, namely the other 20,000 000 - that is, we have 20,000 000 and 20,000 000, 40,000 000 - committed by the European Central Bank, where Mrs Antonopoulou is, for work reintegration, whether we can use them and use them. In a relevant question to Mrs Antonopoulou, I have received the answer: 'Yes, we are now doing so. You didn't do it. We do it now, so don't get so nervous about it." That is the end of her answer. It is positive, in my view, regardless of what he says we did not do everything. I didn't have time to do everything, and I wish you could make it. The issue isn't there. The point is that today we have to take these 20,000 000 and say who are the beneficiaries of the programme that they can work for, but do not have a job and include them? We can do it. It's a simple program. Ms. Antonopoulou can do it. It's her responsibility, but she needs some pressure. I would like to take this opportunity for Mr Blonde to refer to the issue of uninsured persons. Those who are uninsured by the benefit of the programme automatically fall within the issue of an uninsured booklet. I think the CFD is in consultation and can now join this provision. I had another plan prepared. In any case, it does not matter what I had prepared or done. It can now be done with a simple layout. So is the Minister of the Interior. The municipal social tariffs of the municipalities, the water tariff of EYDAP and the social invoice of PPC will be at the disposal of the beneficiaries of the program automatically. He wants a CIA with every minister in charge. That is what I think can be done. It had to be done. I could not do this in December with the election statement. I think it is. Don't tell me what I didn't do for you to do, because if I had done all this work, you wouldn't have had an object today!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u113	Yeah, I'd sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u114	In relation to the evaluation, we will not be content with the assessment made by the World Bank for the five municipalities or the ILO, the project management team, because it is also assessed. He's in the program and he's being evaluated. We have to agree that you, as a government, as a ministry and as a competent minister, should have an independent body - not to be a government, not to be a service, not to be a opposition party - who can carry out an evaluation or even an government body, but who is not directly involved in the programme. And that can be done. Find a body that can run an evaluation from the outside. Why am I saying that? We will actually see whether this institution can give a solution to the problem we have in society today and whether or not it has to continue, so that I am not the one, you and everyone. To put, for example, the scientific community on the ground, people who can make an evaluation and judgement of a programme as to whether it can meet needs. Finally, to conclude, because I have taken more time, like you - it is a huge issue, Mr President, and it cannot be covered in the context of a question - is there any planning for synergy between the humanitarian crisis programme, which, I think, has already been put forward by two thousand applications - a very large number - the European aid programme for the most deprived, namely food aid, but, above all, the structures of the municipalities now financed under the previous ESDP? Today there was a mobilization, Minister, of the mayors and a visit to the Ministry of Northern Greece, where they raised the question of the continuation of these structures. The extension of these structures is due to 30-6 2015 and has not yet been included in the regional programmes. Because they relate to supporting a hundred and eighteen thousand people and working there over a thousand scientists, it would be good to have a political decision now and a provision for the future of these structures, so that they can help with the implementation of the TTE, integrated in social partnerships and other programmes, because you have rightly pointed out that they need staff, executives and structures that support these people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u116	Mr Kegeroglu, I shall refer a little to the evaluations and, in general, to the continuation of the minimum guaranteed income programme. You know, our views and we've told them in detail. It's a good opportunity to say it again in public. The evaluation, as you remember from the CYR that you voted for and set up, provides for the EIHEA, namely the National Institute of Labour and Human Resources, to assess the eight municipalities - the five international Bank - and, of course, we are with all the scientific teams and all the consultants next door to monitor this work. In other words, we do not have an agency or the Ministry's services, which are monitoring the project, will ultimately assess it. So, in terms of evaluation, we are fine, I believe, and we will have conclusions. But these days, among other things, we are also asked to the Brussels Group to see, to commit to whether or not we will continue the project in 2016 and not and how we will continue to do so. It is not enough for them, if you want, that we tell them that we are waiting for evaluation, for corrective actions, such as every single human being, and to see what we are going to do and also to find the 1.5 to 2 billion that will be required to implement this programme for a year. If you do multiplying by over 20 million, you will clearly see what I say to you, Mr Kegeroglu, and you understand that. Instead of six months at 12, instead of twenty-seven thousand, imagine the equivalent to three hundred thirty municipalities in the country compared with thirteen, to see that the total fund will be 1.5 to 2 billion. We are being answered, Mr Kegeroglu, and we are being told: "Lords, you are giving many benefits. Stop the subsidy policy and find money." In particular, we are told that we gave 740 million for family allowances, which they themselves had consulted with you, as far as I know, by subsidising each child, and which we pay for, as you know. Alas. What exactly is he asking for? Should we stop the 740 million to find a half and a billion, Mr. Kegeroglu? Because that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u117	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u118	Don't tell me no, because we're talking right now with the Brussels Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u119	You personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u120	Yes, we, the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u121	Some kind of interrogator. You have nothing to do with it. They're fucking with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u122	Listen to me. They're reliable. I won't blame my department officials. Let me finish, because I want to tell you what we are doing and what we are doing for poverty structures. So I want to say another clue, Mr Kegeroglu. Greece's problem and the minimum guaranteed income recipe have a problem, because Greece has three peculiarities. The first is great unemployment. One and a half million unemployed and an unemployment rate of 27.7% does not have Denmark, Belgium, Austria, one or the other who currently apply the minimum guaranteed income security net. We are also saying that it is a safety net, but not in extreme poverty conditions that we have and extreme unemployment. At the same time we are the state with great tax evasion and tax evasion. Taxation is therefore being lost and state revenues are being lost. Thirdly, we have the highest percentage of black work. Listen to me. When 50% of families are under black labor, do you know what the Minimum Guaranteed Income means? It means it's a trap of poverty. In other words, you get the income, which is EUR 200, all or 50, all and all - because this is what it is - to fill out the EUR 400 per month for a four-member family. Four-member family! This is the shocking Minimum Guaranteed Income. So you give this money as a state and man, the family, within their agony and without finding a job, works with the status of "black" work. To tell you on other terms, therefore, the Minimum Guaranteed Income is a gift to businesses and large capital. This means that this population of extreme poverty is being held in extreme poverty. One-and-a-half billion euros means thousands of jobs, normally taxable, with their funds normally. It means more than a hundred thousand regular jobs for people and not a allowance. So when you have these phenomena, you have to be very serious about the Minimum Guaranteed Income. We'll do all the necessary simulations. I want the Greek society to know that we will deal with both poverty and the other programmes we have. We will deal with extreme poverty and with the TEVA and, of course, with the structures of poverty. I'll tell you, what we're doing these days with the poverty structures, if you're asking me. As far as poverty structures are concerned, all the programmes on 30 June and then will be waiting - they are supposed to - all of these new EPAs, that is, the new ESDP, to extend their contracts, which seems to be happening in September or October. So what's going to happen? Will these structures stop? We, that is, our Ministry, together with the Ministry of Finance, are currently working on the plan to extend for three months - costing it - of these poverty structures, because we know that we cannot leave them in the air, because we need them. So poverty structures will continue, but they will be redesigned in the new EPA, because we see that some poverty structures work well, some do not need, some do not work at all. There has never been an evaluation of these structures. Even more we find that themselves and themselves get a large part of the pie. So, Mr Kegeroglu, and this piece will now be evaluated for the first time. We are therefore a government of merit, which, on the other hand, looks very seriously at the history of poverty. You know very well that I had the opportunity to tell you that we redesigned it, and I was delighted to hear you say "what you're doing is fine". With this new redesign, product notices will not become centralised by the government, in terms of supplies, that is, the EUR 135 million supplies of products that will go to the social partnerships of the municipalities or regions, depending on who is Leader. These days we will also make the invitation to the leaders, precisely because they must now be ready and they must proceed to their final contracts. We will therefore call on all these leaders to make 100 million alone the product notices, and we, as a Ministry, will only do 30 million of the 135 we have for the project, with such a tender that we will give them, will be single and so on. The second innovation, as you know, will have a common electronic platform across Greece for the benefit of the beneficiaries. The beneficiaries will therefore not designate the beneficiaries as benefactors, but on the basis of a common single platform across Greece. We have to speed up the process. This week, as I said just until the end of May, as I have already committed myself - I have already taken off the CFD, I will make tomorrow the Ministerial Decision tomorrow - I will do the invitation and by the end of May - early June I will make the first procurement tender. We have a great deal of anxiety about poverty. Great! The Human Crisis program had two hundred forty - seven thousand applications yesterday. What can I tell you now? Let me tell you my soul knows what that means! I expanded it ten days. If I had stopped it yesterday, I would, in fact, have displeased smaller parts of the people who will not benefit, since I have said that a hundred fifty thousand families will benefit power and so many more foods and only thirty thousand families of rent. But I extended it another ten days, until the end, so that there is not one person to say "I didn't know" and finally to see what extreme poverty is, indeed, all over Greece, because this is a more pilot program than the Minimum Guaranteed for Extreme Poverty, Mr Kegeroglou, and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u123	Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u124	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u125	You're welcome. It's very interesting. After all, Mr Kegeroglu follows them with particular interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u126	We got answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u127	Because you watched very interestingly, you have the floor for a minute, exceptionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u128	We have received answers from the Minister, as I anticipated, and they are in the right direction. The problem is not to deceive what has been done - not that he does - to have synergy for the next one. The innovations that he mentioned about the TEVA are included in the business that we have approved. Indeed, it must be implemented. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u129	We are also grateful to the Minister and Mr Kegeroglu. The debate on topical and urgent questions has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-21-S1-commons.u130	With the consent of the House at 12.28p. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Friday, May 22, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a topical and urgent debate.
