ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue discussion on the principle, articles and all and vote on the draft law: "Measures for the relief of the U.S., simplify the operation of the Disability Certification Centres (CEDs).), the fight against tax evasion and related insurance.' After consulting me with all the wings which are currently in Parliament, I propose that, in order for you to approve, we begin today as a follow-up to what we have stopped yesterday, namely that some fellow Members, the Parliamentary Representatives, and around 12.00 p.m. to 12.30 seconds, speak of the vote at first. Immediately after we go to the articles and the rest of the speakers you've written, you'll be suggesting and you'll talk to both the articles and at first, giving you a little tolerance of time, because they coincide, so that we'll be done, taking about time. I ask, for formal reasons, why have I made consultation with the representatives: is the House adopting this procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously approved. The rapporteurs and the special speakers spoke at the first reading yesterday. We shall therefore enter the list of speakers. I would like to ask you, because at 11.00 hours the time has an unsuccessful obligation - and it has the formal right - to propose Mr Theocharis, then we will start with Mr Papadopoulos, Mr Grigorakos, who was the fifth to speak - and not to delete - in the second part, that is to say on the articles. They must therefore speak at least five colleagues before I give the floor to the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President, and I apologise if anyone was waiting to speak, but I calculated that the procedure would start at 10 a.m. so that I could go to an obligation that I have. You brought us a bill for people with disabilities, do not repeat them, first aid bill, two - three orders from here, various terrible declarations that you will catch the tax evasion, because you recommend nineteen people's seats to control two hundred and thirty thousand businesses. They're the known semimeters, aspirins for cancer. You really don't do anything. You also put some suspicious amendments - and look at them - on the Human Rights and perhaps some will get away with it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u4	Not for the Immunities Asylum, not for the resolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u5	"Photo" for the Anomalies Asylum, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u6	"Photoography" was the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u7	But you are, unfortunately, the government with disabilities. You're a KMEA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u8	So keep an eye on us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u9	We're watching you, yeah. Not real, but out of these beggars sometimes they make AMEs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u10	You started the mud early.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u11	It's not mud. Every time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u12	You're the one who's made society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u13	Every man must be confronted with history. So the story will ask me sometime, "What did you do before the disaster occur? Why didn't you talk? Why didn't you say it?"
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, we have started well. Let's not ruin it. Let Mr. Theochari say what he wants, and he'll answer whoever wants to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u15	So I will answer: sowing the seeds of national division. Watch out for the coups, lies, cowardice. Watch out. Did you see the ballot? The vote is a coup d'état. It has the same letters in both 'no' and 'yes'. The 'no' had to be so much 'yes' so much. This vote is in favour of 'yes'. How did you let it pass? How did you let this ballot be the same letters and 'no' and 'yes'? No one can get confused and vote wrong. Aren't you ashamed? First the 'no' to the ballot? Aren't you ashamed? Will you go through a legislative act to change the terms of a referendum, after you have issued a referendum? Will you change the electoral law after elections are called next time? Is that what you're doing? Is that the Left's moral advantage? To resign the Minister of Home Affairs and the Minister of Justice and enter service. This has to be done if you've got gum on you! But you don't!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, are these words to talk about if we have a gum? Who's the gentleman talking about this? Who's the gentleman?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Theochari, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u18	Yeah, yeah. Change the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u19	Mr Theocharis, this is a free movement of ideas and reasons but to some extent imposed by the parliamentary morale and parliamentary procedure. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u20	All right, Mr. President. Good. It has to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, he's lost his temper. They've lost their temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u22	Mr Balaura, don't worry me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u23	The temper has been lost by the Greeks, who sits in the tails to get 60 euros because of you. Her temper is lost by the mother who doesn't find milk powder in the pharmacy. Their coolness has been lost by Greek citizens who have no beans and cans in supermarkets...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u24	What are you talking about? Are you saying this from the Step of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u25	All right, all right. Get ready. You ask us a false question. That's why you're liars. When a referendum is held, there is no referendum with a good and a bad question, with a good choice and a bad one. This can be done by the government. You go to the people with two good choices you can't choose or two bad ones. Who's good and bad? You say that the dilemma in the referendum is: 'not austerity' - 'austerity'. We are all voting 'no austerity'. What is this referendum?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u26	Everybody?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u27	Everybody. 'No austerity', therefore, is 'yes', gentlemen. ‘Yes’ is ‘not austerity’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u28	Vote the austerity of ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u29	That's why you're lying, because you're putting in the referendum a question that doesn't exist. That's why you're lying. It's a fake question. Fake. You've lost all friends. You are pulling the country out of Europe. The Chinese Prime Minister says "What am I to do with Greece outside Europe? To need customs to pass through Piraeus the merchandise? I will go." And you wait for money later. Russia says so, "I'll leave. What am I supposed to do with it? The whole value of Greece is that it is within Europe.' You're destroying the country's value. You're in a hurry to vote on the 5th of the month quickly. Why in a week? Why this violence? I'll tell you what. Because you don't have money to pay by 13:00. Because at 27 you won't pay wages on all 30 of the next pensions. That's why you're in a hurry. Make sure you steal the people's vote. If you take the people's vote, it's a democratic process. But if you steal it, the same people who voted without explaining them will come and ask you for the floor. They will ask you for the floor when they do not find their money at the bank, when one day the card will say "residue 10,000", the labors of life and the next day it will say "residues of 7,000". So they themselves will come and ask you for the floor! Because that's what you were telling us. We were told "in the evening there will be an agreement, in two hours' time", Mr. Katrugalos, Mr. Stathakis. Where's the deal? Your lies. You were telling us - the Prime Minister himself in the statements with the Austrian Prime Minister - that the government will take the decision on it and bring it to Parliament. Say 'no'. Why do you need the people? Say no and do your program. Find money and do it! Get out of the rich, let's see where these rich people are. Where's the tax evasion? Where's the smuggling? Take them and make your schedule! If you brought a referendum two weeks ago, I'd vote. It would be real. It wouldn't be a lie. You would say, "I have two more weeks. They're pushing me to accept this abortion. Give me strength to fight these two weeks." Then you'd put them before their responsibilities. They should shut us down. Now they haven't hung up on us. Now we've had to and we've shut it down. With the signature of Alexis Tsipras, the banks are closed and the Greek people must know that. The civil servants, with the destruction you brought in five months, will not be paid in the next few days. They'll be paid with cards. I denounce that there is already a working party in the Maximotus with individuals from the State General Accounting Office, who is currently working for the drachma. It's happening right now. You have a plan to take us to the drachma. It's not by diffusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u30	How do you denounce these things and terrorize the world?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u31	I'm not terrorizing anyone! I'm telling the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u32	How does Mr. Theocharis know these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u33	You know it, Miss Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Fotou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u35	The dispersion of false news during the referendum period brings public intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u36	You'll talk later. Sit down. I'm not allowed to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Theochari, wait a minute. Mrs. Fotou, you have a right...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u38	We're in a pre-election period and this dispersion of false news...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u39	Farmers with 'no' will not see a subsidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u40	Mrs. Fotou, you have a right to answer that question. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u41	Then. I'm not allowed to interrupt. I want to finish my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u42	This is a dispersion of false news!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u43	Please, Mr President, protect me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u44	He's scaring the world. We're in a pre-election period!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u45	I'm asking for your protection!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u46	Mrs. Fotou, please! Mr Theoharis, listen, you have the protection from the Bureau and I have already not interrupted you for seven minutes, but I would like to remind you that on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, of course, the Members of Parliament can always speak a little more widely, but so far you are talking about anything else, very serious, but not about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u47	What about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u48	So please join the bill, because you shoot something in the Chamber, you leave then and the rest of us will stay here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Hillis spoke 13 minutes on the other issues and five on the bill, the Minister himself recommending it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u50	If I were in the Chair, I'd say the same to Mr. Army. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u51	Good. How did we get here, ladies and gentlemen? Because here, from tonight, things have changed in the country. Things under your responsibility have been changing in the country since tonight. Time's running out. The loans will stay in the world and he needs to know. With 'no' the world will have loans and no deposits. This will happen if we choose 'no'. Europe's mistakes have brought us here, ladies and gentlemen, Europe's mistakes. Europe has a wrong development model. It has a model that works in the United States, the model of convergence, in which you can have a state with few people and another state full. But this is not just the way things are. Greece cannot be empty and Italy can be filled - Northern Italy already. You can't do that. It is a mistake for Europe, but Europe is changing from partners equally. You change the conversation you have in your house while you live inside your house. If you leave your house, you have no reason. So Europe is changing, with its mistakes, its ideas, its pressures, by not being able to listen to the Greeks, by changing when you are equal, not when you say other things in the morning and more in the evening, and at the end you have made them all - even Renci, a left Prime Minister - not want to see you. GUARDIAN, a left-wing newspaper in Europe, says today: 'No' is an exit from Europe. You don't believe us. Believe them. Believe Renci. Believe Holland. That means "no", exit. This is where we were brought to the mistakes of post-multipleism, which you are continuing with. The political system of postpopulation is a leech that drinks the blood of the Greek people. That's what he did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u52	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u53	He drank it, yes! He was giving the increases and he was taking them with the inflation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u54	I mean, it shouldn't have been a post-multiple thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u55	No one says he didn't bring democracy to the country after the junta. No one says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u56	What do you say then?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u57	Please. No one says that this was not done, but it has been forty years since it has brought these results.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u58	These generalizations are dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u59	And you tell the unemployed, who speak for post-multiple purposes. Say that you're in favour of post-multiple! Go upstairs and say: 'Forty years we have done well'. Explain to the Greek people that everything is fine. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Please! We see a coup in slow motion. You have put yourself across the country: either the country or you. That is what you have achieved right now: Or the country will be destroyed either you or unfortunately both. Mr. Chryssogonus tells you that you have brought the country into worse shape than Zimbabwe. You are told by Mr. Papadopoulos - Tetradis, the “Time” of the newspaper “ELEVERROTYPE”, that you are destroying the country. You don't understand anything. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an alternative plan. The Greek people must know that there is an alternative plan and that we can negotiate in Europe, collect the loans from the ESM and give us the grace period and not give any interest, nor do we give any money for five years and invest all our money in our country. But we need to make real reforms, not the party state you are building in the footsteps of the previous ones. We need to build a professional public administration that serves the citizen and a justice, finally, that protects him. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Changes to the economic governance of the European Union must also be made. It's not enough for Greece to change. Europe must also change, because it has mistakes. He needs more democracy. And this democracy needs - because it is dangerous when Germany has so many citizens and Greece or Malta so few - because it keeps the voices of the small countries open. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the most critical moment in our history. No one's left over. The entire Greek people must stand on their feet. Only by 'yes' can we be saved. It's got to be a double fight again. 'Yes' we have to say to Greece. 'No' we have to say to the misery. 'Yes' we have to say to Greece. 'No' we have to say in splitting. 'Yes' we have to say to Greece. ‘No’ to closed supermarkets and pharmacies. 'No' we have to say in the bank lines. 'Yes' we have to say to Greece. 'No' we have to say to violence. 'Yes' we have to say to Greece. 'No' we have to say in the tails of shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Theochari, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u61	'Yes' we have to say to Greece and 'yes' to the euro! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u62	Listen, ladies and gentlemen. First of all - and I believe that I represent the overwhelming majority of Parliament - anyone who can have any position and views on post-population, but two things cannot be called into question, absolutely: the establishment of democracy and peace in this place. [[Applause]] Minister, because colleagues are waiting and we have reached an agreement on the procedure, and once we have finished early, about 12.00' and 12.30' at first, colleagues will also speak on the articles and, at first, it would be good to know which of the amendments - if you are ready, tell us now or shortly after that, if you do not want to do so - you are acceptable to colleagues in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u63	After a speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u64	Okay. And after two speeches, if you want, to be fully ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u65	After two speeches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor. You know there's a problem with watches and that's why you don't see the time. But the clock I've got here works like this, I'm in control of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I will be content with the written text. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulations of the draft law are an important social intervention in an unprecedentedly difficult economic situation. The draft law solves existing social problems of vulnerable groups of the population that have experienced the years of the crisis with tragic consequences. The expenditure provided for in the State General Accountancy Report on the abolition of the paradox, to re-evaluate the pension to about thirty thousand unsecured elderly people, to the citizens of third countries who are invited to take part in the rural economy is worthwhile. It'll catch a place. The government initiative is taking place in the most difficult phase of the country's newest political history. We have been living historical days, such that I think Lorring should write about the days that shock Europe. The Greek Parliament in its historic meeting on 27 June decided to open a referendum. And only the decision of the Ministerial Council on 26 June was made to extinguish the Directorate, which runs today's united Europe, into spasmodic reactions. They announced that the two documents of the Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund submitted to the Eurogroup on 25 June were withdrawn. They seek ways to continue negotiations with the Greek Government by announcing the logic of the ultimatum, the game that ended. Lead Mr. Obama to contact Merkel and Olad for the Greek problem. He led Mrs Merkel to invite Greece to accept, as he said, the generous proposal, the institutions undone and those of the fanatics in here continue to insist that the referendum is a coup d'état. He led Olad to declare that Greece must first make reforms and then deal with the debt. They are now invoked as a text by the institutions containing proposals with debt write-downs, as the US Minister for Finance advises them and measures of mutual benefit. At the same time, France, Germany, Britain and several other European countries are already making parliamentary processes for the Greek problem, which has become a major European and global problem that requires a solution. Yesterday, the President of the Commission tried to give a completely different picture of the shipwreck at the dialogue table, of the proposals made by the creditors to cut defensive costs, pensions, the sustainability of the insurance system, the concentration of taxes, equivalent measures and the intentions of the representatives of the united Europe towards Greece. I would ask the government to ask for all that has been said, to make a written text binding on the President of the Commission, irrespective of the outcome of the referendum on Sunday. Mr. Juncker considered it an absolute democratic right for Greece to become the referendum. Developments and intense mobility were caused by a referendum that had to be held anyway. On 25 January our Greek people authorized us to implement the programme of productive, administrative, development reconstruction that we announced and the commitments of the IBM, while remaining in the euro. However, the dramatic negotiation, which led to a dialogue of deaf ears where the lenders at all costs wanted the implementation of the fifth evaluation and the nineteen prerequisites, and the Greek side with an honest compromise agreement, came to an end. The negotiation of economic suffocation and unbearable extortion brought to the surface the major national issue: What can we sacrifice for a deal with lenders? New Democracy and Potami answer: Everything, our soul, what the lenders ask, what Symble, Dieselblum, say, regardless of their consequences. The PASOK of Mrs Gennamas - and I must point out - was at least sensitive to telling creditors not to insist on blackmail and extreme behaviour. The debate in the House on 27 June was a shocking one. SYRIZA has a plan to get Greece out of Europe. If it was instant verbal mistake, it could be justified. It seems, however, that they are consciously confusing the European Union and the Eurozone with Europe, which, as a geographical area, includes Switzerland, which is neither the euro nor the united Europe. They're gonna take it off? They think they're outside Europe? Most importantly, Europe means its priesthood, Mr Shoeble, Mr Dieselblum, Draghi, Tusk, the German and French directorate. As a Europe, they mean the Conklavio which decides that Greece was going well when it was buying torpedoes, tanks, helicopters, submarines, despite the debts that reached 120% of GDP. They consider that Germany was doing well when the Greek protagonists of the 'SIEMENS' scandals found immunity in their own area, that France could have a budget with deficits of more than 3% of the ASP, that the European Central Bank could exclude Greece from the quantitative relaxation programme, that the treatment of the refugee problem only concerns Italy, Greece, Spain, Malta, the defence of Greece is its problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall confine myself to the written text, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u68	That doesn't tell me anything. You've already spent the time for a minute. The written text may take another ten. That doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. They consider that the organisation of health services in Europe is a matter for their governments and not a European issue, that they can plan the depth of economic integration and, at the same time, strengthen the divergence of economies. This Europe, unfortunately, has no future. Iceland refused to join the Eurozone by denouncing the current situation. Pope Francis in his historic speech to the European Parliament has pointed out with heat that the European Union must confirm the values with which it was created. So the question that the citizens are asked to decide on Sunday is: can the government sign a contract with regulations and measures that make the country a permanent debt colony? Can a contract be signed, where debt becomes 142% in 2022, when in 2010 it was considered unsustainable to 120%? It can sign a contract when it leads to a horrifying cost of tourism, to the burden of farmers, to insurance contributions, to 100% of the tax advance, to the maintenance of HPAI, and after 2016 to working jungle, to collective redundancies, to employers' lock-outs, to Bulgaria-style pensions etc.Huh? I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u70	But close it, Mr. Papadopoulos. Don't embarrass me. Three minutes you've spent time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u71	I'm not bringing you in, Mr. President. There's the important question of where we'll find the money. I think that from a balanced budget, as it is, revenue and expenditure, from exploiting the creative work of young children with qualifications for forced immigration, from one and a half million unemployed people who can be employed efficiently, from productive reconstruction can be made available. I conclude: If Greeks on Sunday want a government of the willing men's club with Prime Minister Samaras or some type of Papademos, they want to say "yes" to all in the priesthood of united Europe, let them decide. Let us say 'yes'. However, we continue to claim the 'no' of the new regeneration of a historic country, which has all the potential for its reconstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, listen. I'm not going to interrupt anyone. But the bill, which if it had come at another point in time, would - I believe - have a broad acceptance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u73	That has been pointed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u74	To speak about the general political climate, but not to hear a single word about the bill, I honestly tell you for the first time that I have met in the twenty years that I have been a Member of Parliament. The second speaker, Mr Davakis, is deleted because the New Democracy has departed. It is in turn Mr Lagos, Mr Amyras, Mr Gregoras, who told me that she does not want to speak in the first place, that she will speak on the articles where she is to be proposed, Mrs Merope Jufi. We're up to number six. Mr Panagiotaros has asked for the floor from the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Petrakos and everyone else who wants and until 12-12.30 we will continue with two - three more colleagues and we will vote in the first place, since the Minister will have made his speech, in reply to the question I said to him or if he wants to say anything else. Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me not to refer to the bill as our special speaker has been mentioned. But I think that we have one more reason, since in the context of this democracy that we are living in, no member of the Golden Dawn has been called, nor is it going to be called at any television or radio station or any newspaper to explain what we are voting on, what we agree and what we disagree with. The view of the Golden Dawn has been consolidated for many years and it is that referendums should be held on key and important issues of our country. However, these referendums should not be voted on and they should only come to work when the government in question is in a difficult position and wants to drop the ball and get off it. It must be done even on matters for which the government in question is determined to do something but the majority of the people or a very large part of the people disagree. So we cannot make a referendum on the subject of the memorandum, which we are doing quite rightly, but there is no referendum in Greece on the issue of citizenship. Which one of us here determines what is the right thing to do? One is an economic issue which affects our country and makes us in a difficult position and in which we all agree. But the other is a very serious and very important issue, which defines and will determine developments in Greece for the next few decades. We, therefore, as Golden Dawn, say that referendums must be held on all key issues - and this is very important - and not once every forty years when the situation is very difficult. We call 'no' as Golden Dawn. Of course, we say 'no' to the process and then to the memorandum and to this tulip which Europeans do at our expense. We're not accepting it! We are proud of the Greeks and we want to react to this. However, the government must explain to all Greek citizens what will happen on Monday and after the referendum or not. If the Greek citizen votes 'no', does the Greek citizen know what will happen on Monday? If he does not know, I fear that the consequences will be very difficult and, unfortunately, perhaps tragic for Greece. But if anyone knows that it is going to be difficult to pass certain situations, then he will vote with his heart, he will also know and suffer the consequences of this act for a time that we will also have as a government for you to see and say that for the next few months, next year or I do not know how long we will be going through some things so that the Greek citizen knows what is going on. If this is not done, even voting 'no' at the moment, after next week, after ten days, the consequences will come like tsunami and will be very difficult - remember that. It would have been a long time since Greece and, of course, from the day we entered the memorandum - on that damn day that we were sadly put to the memorandum - but also in the five months that you are in the government, trying as a state to win time, "playing a game" let us say to Europeans, so that if we were to get to the point - as perhaps now - we could have had to get out of the euro, Greece could have at least one primary production so that we could as a state and not starve! To be able to have some ways in which we will survive for a while. I'm afraid I'm afraid or I'm quite sure that's not done. And these are the disadvantages of the case. As well as a big government mistake is that it brings the referendum at the last minute. Why would he now come on 5 July and we do not want to continue on this programme? We ask for the tolerance of our lenders and we tell them 'give us an extension for another week'. Why? We had to do it a little earlier, so that we could go nicely and smoothly to the referendum, that the Greek citizen would not be terrified, so that the decision he would make would not be "with the gun to the head". Unfortunately, the decision it will now make is “with the gun to the head”. We are listening to this whole process which has been taking place for five to six days and within Parliament and outside to say 'how did Greece come to this?', 'the situation is not good', 'why did these things happen?' etc. But what we did not ask and did not discuss in the whole process is who brought Greece here, how we got here. How we got here I think you all know it. Those who took over Greece, those who "take" the wealth of the Greek citizen, those who destroyed everything, were the ones sitting here in these seats, here, in the Greek Parliament, great-grown, great-minded, supposedly large members of the Greek society who captured everything, who, in consultation with their European leaders, stole the funds, the money, they shared them to friends, smuggled Greece, and became the Greek citizen, they came to accept a loan from the bank to go on holiday. This is not all by magic. They are certainly not responsibilities for Greek citizens. I'm sure it isn't. They should have reacted differently. But when the Greek government itself had them gamble on the stock exchange, when the Greek government itself had them get loans for the simplest, to go on holiday, to buy a bigger cubic car, then we know very well who is responsible. But I didn't hear you say that. Why? You're a government now! Find the guilty! It's too easy for you. Bring back some of the stolen ones! Bring back some of that money! Some of SYRIZA's majors already have deposits abroad tens of millions. So let the SYRIZA MPs back, let's put them in the Greek banks, let's start at zero, and there every Greek citizen will say "yes, there's a new start and try to continue". So he'd all accept it. It is not possible, however, for those who have to make it out, to say "we are assured, we are not a rat" and the retired person running to the bank to get the 500 euros must be troubled. I think that's something none of us want. However, I repeat that we need to find those responsible people in these seats where they were sitting or possibly sitting. It is terrifying, indeed, that it is disgusting - I would say - to ask for the change at the moment, the New Democracy and the PASOK, these 'guns', which have been drinking the blood of the Greek people for for forty years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And now we are listening to the leaders and well of the New Democracy and PASOK coming out with a look of a thousand cardinals and telling us what has happened and what the change has been demanding. Who? They? It's really a disgrace to them! It's really disgraceful because of them Greece has been levelled! It's really disgraceful because they fuck people from the balconies and they get killed! It's a disgrace to them because elderly people are running and looking in the trash to find them to eat! But they don't know where they live, where they see other things. Well, no, Samaras and Venizelos come to us now and tell us who is the fault of Greece coming here. This question we ask them: Who is the fault of Greece coming here? But you too as SYRIZA are very few because you have not been confronting them with their actions, you have not brought them to account for what they have done. From what we see, so far, you're not going to do that either. It just starts a conversation from now on about how Greece will be saved. Greece, therefore, has been through other very difficult situations. The Greek doesn't succumb so easily. We'll have a tough time, but Greece will survive once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u76	It's Mr. George Amyras' turn to speak. I'm not erasing him. Notify him, please, to come. The next speaker, Ms. Merope Jufi, has the floor. But it must come by the end of Mrs Jufi's speech, because I will have to delete him. Here, Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, of course, I am addressing you all, but let me begin with a more personal tone, addressing the people of work, active and steadfast, and especially the people and their families, who have brought them together so that they can experience the pain more than the others, although none of us is excluded. So I say to them that as the people in my region know, for many years I have served this area with the bill, that is, the family of the child with the serious chronic illness and disability. So I feel deeply offended by the phrase of the head of the river that was launched yesterday 'you never worked, you do not live from your work', Mr. 'We vote for any programme that you bring us', as well as the irresponsible campaign of fear of today's rapporteur who has lost the measure. So I also inform him and other paternalists of the national understanding, who wrote stories of glory to the ministries that were managed, that the reason why I and other colleagues in the Greek Parliament were also the return of the people we served for many years with our constant and constant presence near their pain and problems, endless hours, days and nights from the reunion of the public hospital, through which we ensured the survival of our family, since most of us did not inherit or build property. These people are judging us all today for our agonizing attitude to stay in Europe with dignity. It is an unsatisfactory shame that people who have served faithfully and for many years the previous customer system of power and many have benefited personally, while they have been involved in many and have led the Greek people to the size of the memorials, social dismantling and misery. At this particular moment, therefore, they are saying that they do not understand why the negotiations for a few million people were horrific, and they know that this is a difference of billions, after many surpluses have been budgeted and, of course, you have coexisted with serious qualitative and class differences in our proposal. It is time today to say clearly what all these domestic apologists - New Democracy, PASOK, Potami - are proposing, unfortunately, to the most extreme systematically false and blackmailing European neoliberal elites. In essence, this draft law and the proposed critical amendments in a different way each, either by repeated spectacular theatrical departures or by hypocritical support. They had it all ready, except for the provision of the corresponding funds, and they give the shipwreck to SYRIZA's inefficiency. But is that true and how it is possible to pursue a social policy without funds, when with the 'yes' in the referendum, which they wholeheartedly propose to the people, do you agree with the creditors' proposal to further reduce expenditure by EUR 900 million in social welfare? We agree with the reassessment of the welfare system, with the aim of saving half of GDP annually. You agree with the annual reduction of 14 billion per annum from the insurance system. You agree to further cut pensions by 2 billion. You agree to apply the zero deficit clause and to finance the ancillary funds only from own resources. They agree to abolish all the contributions in favour of third parties that finance insurance funds which entail a reduction in their revenues of more than 700 million. You agree to increase health care reservations in pensions from 4% to 6%. You agree to freeze pensions until 2021. You agree that there are overwhelming attacks on the Greek drug. You agree with the savage increase in taxation by 13% of farmers. You disagree with the profit tax through the temporary contribution of 12% to profits of over 500,000 euros. They disagree with the control of triangular transactions, the main method of tax evasion for large companies. In this context, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. All the above and other things, with which they agree and are indulging together with creditors for delays or falsehood, are a package of proposals of philosophy of the International Monetary Fund, which were delivered as a ultimatum in Greece and in which the people's only response, despite the savage blackmail and the spread of fear, can only be a bronze 'no'. So not all of this, since they lead to the complete demolition of the remaining shrinking social state, despite the struggling effort of the left government. Not in replacing it with a model of charity, demolished the dignity of people and without any real prospect of growth, that is to say, that it is up to life and suffering to the charity of foreigners and the powerful. I will not go more specifically on the issues of the bill, since they have been discussed in detail in the committees before. They have been highly analysed by our rapporteur and several of the comments have been accepted by the Minister. I will choose to finish, ladies and gentlemen, speaking in general, saying that I too feel that these days are historic. Our parents and grandparents lived in wars. We are living the globe of oligarchs and world capital. This irresponsible economic war is unequal, but not necessarily lost. I trust in the struggles of the peoples, even if the little people are without swords and shells like ours, but with a long tradition of resistance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. With the proud 'no' in this referendum this people - the small one - says a resounding 'no' to the extreme austerity of the austerity for the world of work. With his 'no' he defends democracy, equality, solidarity, dignity, different attitudes. It defends those who have proudly left, fighting for a better Greece, without being obstinate and those who will come, unborn children, not to live in a country - debt colony, foreign to its citizens, with only a role in slave labour, fully subordinate to the will of the bosses. So it is time for the people to decide by hand in the heart, as they did in all the critical hours they were sent to him ultimatum, who will go and who will leave. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have the faith, despite the orchestra of disinformation and fear from their enthusiasts and polite polarisation, that the people will decide correctly. Because, as the poet says, "Russia, don't cry it, where she goes to lean on the bone, with the leash on the neck, here she is, thrown out from the outskirts and refreshes and refreshes." We're gonna win, comrades, and friends. Knowing the consequences of the law, neither a step back. But even though we are hopelessly defeated, because we tried to restore the ideas of the Left and its political will to transform the existing framework into a conviction of the prophecies for their definitive death, it was a nice journey! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u78	First of all, you know - and you have seen it - that I am not making comments, but when I am personally concerned, I respond. I am neither a nut nor a pussy of anyone, and I shall vote 'yes'. Minister, I give you the floor to answer what you are doing and what you are not accepting. Then, because Mr. Gregorakos is away, Mr. Zacharias will speak. And I call for your permission to be allowed, because they are both new Members and they are not fully aware of the procedure, that their party should send paper to the Bureau to change the position, rather than Mr Amyras to lead Mr Orphan, who is written after Mr Zacharias. I'll take it. What are you doing like this, Mr. Colleague, Mr. Karayannides? You're here. Don't worry. Before 12:00 - 12:30, you'll talk. I will let Mr. Petrakos speak later, and I will intrude you in order to speak! Don't complain. Minister, you have the floor. How many minutes do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u79	There are too many of them. About 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u80	Don't take so much time from the MPs. Okay, it's useful. I'll give you ten minutes, and if you want to, Mr. Army, you'll take it for ten minutes, or you'll make it twenty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u81	All right, I'll try. First of all, I would like to say, Mr President, because you have a long term term mandate and experience, that Mr Theocharis' placement was out of place and time not only on the substance, but also on the fact that he said that he was a team of officials from the General Accounting Office in Maximos and prepared the printing of a new national currency. This has no basis, but no basis. This is not a political matter. You know that. You know my personal beliefs too. The question, therefore, raised by Mr Theocharis, that there is a group of the general accounting officer who prepares the currency, is beyond any political ethics. It's a dispersal of false news inside the heart of the election struggle. We from the government do not criminalise the view, but we fully reject such an intervention, which reinforces the terror of the Greek people with raw lies. On the one hand, we disprove the information. Mr. Theocharis has had to tell her, say where he learned it, who said it and make this commitment. We categorically falsify her as a government. From there on, we deliver him to the crisis of the Greek people, which in these critical times, on the critical days, while in a leading democratic process it is called upon to decide on the present and future, to dissociate such dangerous types of false news. We need to be positioned, apologize and get it back as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Army, I'm stopping for fifteen seconds your time. I can neither deny nor confirm.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u83	Not you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u84	Where I could give an answer, I think I gave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u85	And you gave it, Mr President. I did. That is why I have invoked your long parliamentary experience and your term of office and said that you know that it is unacceptable, as you have said. Before I refer to the substance of the matter, I would like to assure Mr Theocharis and anyone that Mr Theocharis is trying with such false spermology to terrorize the Greek people, that the Greek people will not be afraid to say his opinion. The Greek people have stood up against tanks and machine guns to defend the freedom and democracy of their country. He'll do it now. With a responsible opinion he will vote, to say - and he must say so, in our view - a great 'no' to extortion and ceremoniality and open up new hopeful roads for our country, with national independence, national sovereignty and the resumption of the economy and society. Mr President, let us now refer to this. As far as Parliamentary amendments are concerned, the first, the general number 210 and the special number 59 of 29-6-2015, is concerned with extending the regulatory effect of the National General Cooperative Convention by extending the validity of the reinsurance until 30 September, so that there is no problem with those workers who take the minimum wage. At the same time, in this amendment, rehearsal from three months ago is returning to six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u86	Because, Minister, I do not have the body of amendments before me, say whether it is ministerial or parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, as far as the amendments I am referring to now are all parliamentary. I've distinguished them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u88	Are these ministerial?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u89	Oh, no. I'm talking about parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u90	All right, Minister. They're parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u91	Leucakos Stathis and many MPs have testified it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u92	All right, we're talking about parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u93	The same amendment has been tabled by Mr Kegeroglu since PASOK. It is the same, but for the minutes of the case, I say that the general number 210 and a special number 59 from 29-6-2015 is accepted. Also, there is a parliamentary amendment with a general number of 184 and a specialist of 36 from 25-6 2015 on matters of insurance of scientific staff of the Public Law Legal Service “Greek Institute of International and Foreign Law”, so that the insurance contributions between employer and employee are shared among lawyers and other Members of this Agency, as is imposed by the legislation on cases of fixed salaries of lawyers, signed by the Royal Katrivanos and dozens of other Members of Parliament who are accepted. Thirdly, there is a parliamentary amendment tabled by Mr Kegeroglu and other PASOK MPs to regain the autonomy of the "Centres for Education, Social Support and Training for Persons with Disabilities".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u94	Are you talking about the amendment with a general figure of 180?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u95	It is the amendment with a general number 194- I read the last number and not the first one, in the committees - and a specialist of 45 from 26-6-2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u96	All right, Mr. Army. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u97	The amendment essentially concerns the reintroduction by the Ministry of Health of the Ministry of Social Solidarity. Mrs Fotou said that this was not accepted by the Minister responsible. As a rapporteur for the bill, therefore, it is not acceptable to me. It can be submitted by Mr Kegeroglou to a bill of responsibility of the Ministry of Health, to discuss it better with the Minister responsible. It is with a general number of 195 and a special 46 parliamentary amendment tabled on 26-6-2015, which deals with arrangements to facilitate people with disabilities in relation to the operation of passenger transport, I keep it until the end of the procedure, in order to consult with the Minister responsible, Mr Spirtzi, because it is primarily his responsibility and partly Mrs Fotio. That is, 5% is Mrs Fotio and 95% are Mrs Spirtzi. With the help of the Member who submitted it, by Socrates Vardakis, we will contact the Minister, we will send it to him to give us his opinion. Therefore, I reserve my place again for her. Now, the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 183 and a special 35, tabled on 25-6-2015, which concerns the regulation of liability of legal persons in insurance funds - is tabled by Mrs Amanatidou Evangelia from the SYRIZA on her own. Mr President, it concerns members of the board of directors of public limited companies or those responsible - as you know - for debts to insurance funds if the company goes bankrupt. Because the legislation so far said that it "pays" which seemed to have to pay all of you, it enables these people, since they are well placed to repay the insurance funds, to do so with the rules in force at any time, if the insurance arrangements are applicable...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u98	What is the number of the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u99	It is the amendment with a general number 183 and a special number 35.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u100	Say who's testifying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u101	I said, Mrs. Litsa Ammanatido. Now, the general amendment of 190 and a special 42 of 26-6-2015, tabled by Leucasos Stathis, Petrakos Athanasios, Stathas Yiannis and Charalapidou Despina, is a very important amendment that we are very pleased to make from our Ministry. It is a question of extending the applicable regulation of the debtors to the insurance funds. On this occasion, I wanted to inform Mr President, that it is a good thing that the amendment says 'from the end of the previous', that it is extended from Friday evening. The figures until Friday, when this arrangement expired, were that seven hundred thousand debtors - a record record for our country - ten times the best last settlement, and that they had their debts to the insurance funds of EUR 5.3 billion. We have received EUR 220 million as the first instalment from the insurance funds, Mr President, and it is a serious factor in taking a breath. It is therefore accepted. A similar amendment has been tabled by Mrs Makri from SYRIZA and Mr Kegeroglu, Konstantopoulos and Gregorakos from PASOK. It is self-evident, since I accept the first amendment, that the other ones - I live, however, in the first with this figure -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u102	So, who accepted you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u103	The amendment with a general number of 190 and a special 42...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u104	I mean, Mrs. Macrey's.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u106	That's the one I got under number 190.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u107	I'm sorry, you're right. It was wrongly written. Thank you very much, Mr President. It's the amendment with a general figure of 185...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u108	Therefore, Mr Leucakou, Mr Petrakus and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u109	The amendment with a general number 185 and a special 87, 25-6-2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u110	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your correction. Now, Mr Mavraani's parliamentary amendment for those who are obliged to double insurance in both the IKA and the OAU if they have not completed twenty-five days in IKA are also required for the OSCE, is an amendment that tries to solve a real problem. We'll study it. I can't accept it today. The general direction is acceptable, but I cannot accept it today, because it requires a particular study and an economic report from the OAU and from the IKA. It is therefore formally rejected, but politically, I say that it is an amendment that we will be very serious about in the next few days at the Ministry. I come now, Mr President, to the amendment - and now I am also looking at the numbers - with a general number of 188 and a specialist of 40 from 26-6-20154, which is from the Communist Party of Greece and signed by Mr Athanasios Vardalis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u112	Mrs. Manolakou and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u113	Mrs. Manolakou and others. It is a serious amendment which solves the problem of people made redundant by agricultural cooperatives and associations. As far as the general direction is concerned, we are adopting it. We'll just bring her as a Ministry into a next bill, because she wants a report from the Ministry's Directorate-General of Finance, but also a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. So, as a start, we say 'yes', but we will come back. It is typically rejected, but basically, in cooperation with the Members who have proposed it, but also with the Federation, we will see it in the near future. The Labour Federation came and saw me. You propose a specific proposal of their own. And when I say that we will see it 'in the immediate future', I mean in the month. With regard to Parliamentary Amendment No 189 and a special number 41 from 26-6-2015, tabled by Mrs Eleni, which concerns the restoration of legal certainty with the recognition as a real-time service of the year in which contributions have been paid, in accordance with the provisions of the Law. I am telling you that we cannot recognise it as a real time - it has been recognised as a fictitious time and can buy it - because, unfortunately, we have three written circulars and an opinion of the Ministry, approved by the Legal Council of State, which have solved the matter definitively and said that it will be recognised as a fictitious time. It cannot therefore be accepted for these legal reasons. Now, with regard to the parliamentary amendment number 191/43/26-2015, signed by the Members of SYRIZA Mr. Apostolos Karastasis, Mrs.Aphrodite Theophettos, Mr. Ilias Kamaeros, etc., it is typically not accepted, despite the fact that she is invoking an existing problem. We all know that with the 2011 increase in insurance contributions to the EBRD, doctors, lawyers and, above all, engineers, they were excessively burdened. So it is not acceptable, and in essence it poses problems - and that is the case - for three reasons: The first reason is because we have already proposed relief measures in the bill. In other words, to those engineers, doctors and lawyers who are insured in the EBRD after 1-1 1993, we give them the possibility of submerging down three insurance classes down so that they can obtain financial relief. We reduce by 150 euros a month their insurance...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u114	Minister, don't explain in detail, since you don't accept it, because you've already reached sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u115	I can explain that, Mr President, because I will accept another one. Secondly, as far as the increased contributions from July 2011 to December 31, 2014 are concerned, I will accept another amendment which enables me by Ministerial decision to make a favourable regulation for this period that has been charged with increased contributions. As far as the third is concerned, for parallel insurance because of relevance, it concerns general insurance funds and we will see it in the future. As far as Amendment No 192 is concerned and a special 44 of 26-6-2015, which concerns the Public Staff Welfare Funds, the possibility of recognising and buying pre-service periods for the members of the welfare sector of municipal and Community officials, with the exception of applications for the recognition and acquisition of military service is concerned. In Parliament's consultation, the WTO - OTA requested it, and we said it was right. The amendment was tabled by the SYRIZA Member, Mr Olga Gerovasili, and is accepted. Mr President, the parliamentary amendment by Mr Haikalis and Mr Mavragani on the settlement of late debts in the OGA is not accepted for formal reasons. He wants a report from the General Accounting Office, he wants cooperation with the administration of the OGA, and we will look into it in the near future. It's just, for formal reasons, rejected. As regards Parliamentary amendment number 200 and a special number 51, of 26-6-2015, made by SYRIZA MEP Mr Zacharias Konstantinos, we typically cannot accept it. However, we are committed that with the Scientific Committee set up by this draft law, we will resolve the matter. We will address this in the revision of the Single Disability Certification Table. Therefore, it is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u116	Minister, please. You've been talking for 20 minutes. Don't explain why you don't accept it. Just say, 'I'm not accepting it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President. The same applies to the next parliamentary amendment by Mr Konstantinos Zacharias, her general number 201 and a specialist number 52, 26-6 2015, because we will address her in the revision of the CIDA. As regards the amendment by the JRC Members to a general number 203 and a specialist of 26-6-2015, we do not formally accept it. On the substance, in other amendments I have accepted, three - four of these issues we have accepted. The amendment - Addendum with a general number of 208 and a special 58 of 29-6 2015 proposed by MPs Karastase Apostolis, Theophontatus Aphrodite, etc., calling for specific arrangements for EFF members to be made for increased, charged insurance contributions from July 2011 to December 31st 2014. Parliamentary amendment with a general number 211 and a special 60 of 29-6-2015 for addition - provision for the cases of assistance to Disabled and Remuneration Benefits and Remunerations for joining employment programmes made by MPs Barkas, Leucas and Charalapidou Despina - is accepted. Mr President, the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 212 and a special number 61 of 29-6 2015 tabled by Mrs Charalapidou Despina and Mr Gerovas Olga to extend the validity of Otta I budgets in financial year 2014 is accepted. The amendment tabled by the Members, Mr Charalabidou Despina, Mrs Haitani, Mr Leucakos, Mr Barkas and Mrs Sotimo Eleni, to extend the deadline laid down in Article 48 of Law 4250/14 for the provision of staff for the Charges Compensation for Loaders who dismantle these funds, is acceptable. Parliamentary Amendment No 217 and a special 66 of 29-6-2015 tabled by SYRIZA MEP, Mr. Syrizas Nikolaos, for the granting of an supplementary pension by the Maritime Insurance Sector due to a maritime accident at work is accepted. Mr President, Parliamentary Amendment No 218 and a special number 67 of 29-6 2015 tabled by the SYRIZA MEP, Mr Nicholas, proposing an extension of Law 3996 to shipbuilding, so that if they pay current contributions, the former can be frozen until a certain, specific period of time, the current provision is extended and certain conditions are in place which shield the provision. In this sense, in order to stand up for companies in the shipbuilding industry and above all in Perama, this current regulation is accepted. So it's accepted. As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, my opinion, Mr President, is not to mention them one. Let me just say they're all accepted by the Ministry. All ministerial amendments are accepted. I was just informed, Mr. President, that a ministerial amendment is pending...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u118	Two have come. You'll see them and when we get into the articles, you'll answer them on both.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u119	There are two amendments left. As soon as I get them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u120	One arrived and then another one came, as I was informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u121	When they come, Mr President, I will simply ask for the floor for just one minute. Thank you and apologies for the delay, but there were too many of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u122	I'm going to give you the bolt, but, Minister. Those of you who accepted were all SYRIZA MPs. Whoever had entered from another party MEP has been rejected. Although many of the things you are accepting personally, I agree with you, because I have to say this before me. First of all, I should like to inform you that in a document by Mr Christos Mandas, the Secretary of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and for quite objective reasons, the rapporteur on the articles is defined instead of Mrs Charalapidou for SYRIZA Mr Konstantinos Zacharias, my colleague. Therefore, Mr Zacharia, will you give us the time now, since you will have a lot of time as rapporteur?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u123	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much. He will therefore speak as rapporteur with increased time. Now, I will give the floor to Mr Karayannides and Mr Orphanus, and then the parliamentary representatives will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u125	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u126	Wait, sir, I'm not done. Mr Panayotaros will be the first to ask for the first floor, immediately after Mr. Petrakos has requested, followed by Mr. Koutsoukos. Mr Pafilis will obviously come back and will want the floor, and lastly Mr Nicholas, who has also asked me for the floor and we will be voting on the vote at first reading. As we have said, all other colleagues will be put forward on the articles. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for a minute, to tell us what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u127	As far as the dispersion of false news is concerned, I have to make a comment. As you know, Mr. Theocharis has information from the Treasury. I don't. So I don't know if the committee is in Maximos, the Ministry of Finance or the Mint. Politics I have to note, Minister, that if you do not have a committee at this stage to study, even as a chance of an accident, the transition to the drachma, it is not enough where we go to the thorns, we go to the thorns. I therefore hope that there will be a committee for the good of the country and that it will not be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u128	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u129	For two minutes, I give you the floor because of sympathy. But don't patronize the meeting now. You have the floor, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, thank you for two minutes. It is about the well-known possibilities of the river, where, when one does not come out, we say the other. In other words, having said lies in the first phase to terrorize the people in a second phase of lies, because now the Potami that had promised us and in the election would bring us a great deal of post-election program and did not bring us anything outside the "we vote whatever you bring to the House, no matter what comes to the House" today, says the two things: firstly, you are badly now and you are making the drachmas. I mean, Greek people, you're in a state now, coming out of Europe. That's exactly what you're telling him, while it's the big threat - Mr. Theocharis told him...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u131	We don't say it, you do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u132	And I say again - and I said it before - in times of election false news, which is actually recorded in the minutes of the House, they are perhaps also prosecuting prosecutors. Second phase...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u133	What do you think? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u134	That's what I'm saying. Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u135	What do you say, Mrs. Fotius, are you threatening MPs who say their views to a prosecutor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Comrade, it's over. To answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u137	Are you threatening a prosecutor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u138	We don't accept from anyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u139	You're threatening a congressman with a D.A., why does he say his opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Colleague, I'll be in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u141	Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u142	Are you threatening MPs in Parliament by prosecutors?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u143	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u144	Are you threatening the expression and the opinion with the prosecutor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u145	You won't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u146	Are you threatening a prosecutor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u147	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u148	Royal Commissioner in this country will never be there again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u149	You won't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Comrade, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u151	You have basic knowledge of parliament....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u152	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u153	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u154	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u155	Shame on you! Trabuccism won't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u156	Madam Minister, you have spent the year too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u157	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u158	I've received a lot of tramps...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u159	Excuse me, is there a president or not? Sit down, both of you! Is there a Bureau or does it not exist?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u160	I'm trying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u161	Good! Sit down, both of you! Madam Minister, I believe that at the very edge of the speech the'subsidy' enters into introductory statements for the Minutes. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u162	Mr. President, I said that I probably...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u163	All right, we've heard. Because I believe that you did not mean the substance, you agree in the Minutes to be the word 'voluntary' in introductory forms.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u164	If the others are willing to get into what they said in quote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u165	Colleagues have not threatened by a prosecutor. They said their opinion, maybe extreme, but they said it. I won't forbid them to tell her. I think it'll make it easier. You didn't mean it. Introduce the word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u166	Without a royal commissioner, we will work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u167	All right, Mr. Comrade. I ended it. Mr Karayannides has the floor. Then Mr. Orphan can answer for the River further if something has not been covered. Mr. Karayannides, come on. I saw you struggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. We're living the theater of irrationality in here. We are guilty because we have a group in Maximos that organizes the drachma and at the same time we are guilty because we do not have a group in Maximos that organizes the drachma! If you have the basic logic - which you have never had, but which is to talk about - you have to admit one of the two. If, then, you admit that we have a group in Maximus that organizes the drachma, so that you do not have to bring proof to slanderers. That logic, that Mr. Theocharis has information from the Treasury, you know where he's taking us? The junta. ‘I have information...’
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u169	Now you too! Please! "Does he have information from the Ministry of Finance and take us to the junta?".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u170	He has information from the Treasury and I, with the same ease, can say that I have information through the River saying specific things. That's slander. It's the definition of slander. When you have no proof of something, you cannot throw mud in the air, saying, "I have heard, some friends told me." Second, does there really have to be a team in Maximus, so we can know how to organize our work? Tell us about it. Should I or should I not? Since the bill was not said much on the part of the opposition and since it was given the right - it was not you, Mr President - not to say the bill, I will not say much about the bill. It is obvious, however, that this bill abolishes at least twenty Memorandum Rules, resolves issues over the last five years, which have distorted things for the workers and the insured and for us is a cut. So it has to be supported. The fact that opposition has no arguments to support it proves that it says nothing about the bill. There is a contradiction in your logic of democracy. We say that a referendum should be held, and you say that there should not be a referendum. Who supports democracy? You or us? You do not want to put the people on an important issue and at the same time consider you are also the most democrats in the region. Well, it's not like that. We say that on a very important point, which will determine the country's course, we must go to a referendum. Your view is that we shouldn't go. On the other hand, you say that if we go to a referendum, we have to vote 'yes'. But since you did not vote on Saturday night, why do you want to take part in the referendum? Since it's invalid, it's coup d'état, it asks the wrong questions, it's blackmail, why do you participate and legalize the referendum? Because you will either accept the referendum or not. In democracy, as is well known, there are no deadlocks and therefore there are no ones. We propose this: on the one-way Europe of EUR 300 for a monthly salary, EUR 240 for a pension, we say that it is not accepted, and we have another way. Inside the euro and within the European Union. If for you Europe is the boats of workers who work two and four hours a month and are paid 180 euros, we in Europe do not want it. What can we do? We didn't come to the government to go on with this throat. We didn't come to the government to continue the five years of austerity. You agree with that. Your right, but you are in agreement with the most extreme economic centre right now in the European Union. Let me remind you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u171	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u172	Please. I didn't interrupt when you were talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u173	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Mavrosh did not speak today, though. Carry on, Mr. Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u175	I'm going on, but they have to stop the parasites. I can't do it like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u176	Thanks for calling me a parasite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u177	The vocal parasites. I'm on it. Say, who do they vote 'yes' in the referendum? Mr. Shoeble, Mrs. Merkel, Mr. Dieselblum, Mr. Juncker and PASOK, New Democracy and Potami. Will there be criticism at some point, however, how is it possible for the head of European institutions to intervene in the internals of a country and to propose what to vote on? Is that democracy? Is that what you accept as a democracy? Are you not making any criticism that all these representatives of the institutions are going to intervene completely openly and say what the Greek people should vote on? To say a single incident which shows the quality of these interventions. There was the news that yesterday at 12 o'clock Mr. Juncker made a new proposal to the Greek Government. At two o'clock in the morning, a denial came out of Mr. Juncker's office. That's the credibility we're talking about. Adopt 100% of the things Mr. Juncker and Mr. Schultz say. You do not consider whether these things are true or lying. The journalist, Mr Spiegel, who is not SYRIZA, obviously, has established the whole interview with Mr Yunker, a word for a word. You, as memorialists of the memorials, think what Mr Juncker said is true. Do you ever get into logic to understand what's going on and what's going on? So this evening, when the 'Memo Europe' is about to gather, ask yourself what exactly Europe you want, because today's Europe is the Europe that will lead us to Mrs Lepen, with which Mr Kegeroglu accused us of joining us yesterday. Only I have to remind Mr Kegeroglu that he was working with Lepenn's best man. Of course, Mr. Kegeroglu doesn't want to remember them. Let me not show here the posters of Mr Vorides' party, not in 1995, but in 2004, where he had the euro with a frosted cross. Let me not remind you who said 'outside the euro' then, and today they are the most fanatical of the euro. We have a choice. We want to stay human. You guys want to stay slaves. So we choose our dignity. We will stay in Europe, we will stay in Greece, but under the terms of our own and the clear choice of Sunday is 'no' to slaves and wages of 300 euros a month and to pensions of 240 euros a month and to constant surveillance by a European cage, which tells us how we want to live. And if we do not want to live in this way, the choice on Sunday is 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u178	Mr Karayannides, because you joined me with the slaves - when I am personally affected, I will answer - to inform you - that on 2 May 1998, a Member of the European Parliament and without being another ideology than that of which I am now a member, I did not vote for the euro. If you're talking about such slaves, you should want them and be the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u179	But now you're not giving me the right to answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u180	Now what's your answer? If you say conceived slaves who have the opposite view of you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u181	It's schematic, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u182	Okay. I'll take it. Then it's over. As a schematic, the subject is over. Mr. Orphane, you have the floor. You're disciplined, too. Because you are speaking by way of derogation and with the agreement of colleagues, please keep the seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much. We have heard too many accusations about things that are completely paradoxical. What did the river say from the first moment? We said: "Get the honest deal, which you promised, and we will support this honest agreement, so that society can go down and see the application and what it works and what it does not work." We did not say 'go whatever it is.' How would you bring anything? Was that possible? In any case, it could not exist institutionally. How do you say such slander about the river? So a party goes out and says, "Get the honest deal and we'll support it," and it's slandered because it says it! Such paradoxes are 'top rivers'. Is it possible to say that there are slaves in Europe? Which country are there slaves in? So in Europe they work two or three hours a week? And soon after the subtle padlocks start, why won't the companies move and not work at all, that's the choice? Nobody wants to be a mispaid worker. But five months now, where did the wages go? Were they raised? What's up, retirement? What's better?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u184	They haven't reduced, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u185	Please, I didn't interrupt. I heard everything. You ask us why we are participating in the referendum. Is it possible to say why we are taking part in a process which, in any case, has been passed by Parliament, even with this diversion, as we see it? We don't say if we vote. It doesn't matter anymore. It's important that people know why. And you don't tell him why the next day. The reason for the next day doesn't know! Ladies and gentlemen, we have been following the implementation of a well-organised and organised project five months now: to lead to the desperation of a society which has been frustrated by the hope that you have demagogically sold it. You've come to the point where you say people don't want money, they want dignity. On 25 March Mr Varoufakis said in Chania: "Be with us and after the break." You knew that society did not want a monetary diversion and you put your plan forward, to sell unemployment as dignity, poverty and the destruction of the small and medium-sized businessman as dignity. Your left wizards of communication have done intensive work for so long, many even through the ministerial offices. At the same time, you were talking about democracy and every day you were weaving the new authoritarianism, with a disgrace to the House. Procedures for self-determination of meetings, with bills surfing by replyable corrections and supplements, with rain of unrelated amendments, with bills express, legislative acts, depreciating the substantive dialogue and arguments that promoted your ideologies and a so-called democratisation. You have applied every criminal habit of the old party system. Is it possible on the left side to hear the old argument of the civil right, the slashing of the opponent in this way, using patriotic and betrayal phrases, what has been suffered by the Left in the dark years of her persecution to be subjected to smaller party formations at the moment in the Greek Parliament? In the face, the Prime Minister admitted to us the construction of your party state in the timely question that we addressed to him. All this time you have only reduced unemployment in your party executives along with their bank accounts. Even one job in the private sector has not been able to create. You know deep within you the unrelenting truth, that no place is in modern European reality. The Europe of institutions, which protect the freedom to work and the life of people, is you hostile. And that is why he had to be slandered as an organization of neoliberal evil and exploitation. So now, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have taken your first clear position. You're free! After hundreds of mutually agreed statements by your officials in recent months, after heavy exodus, you have now decided, in the last few days, what currency you want this country to have: the drachma. For the first time in five months, you're all in agreement. And you're all together in the drachma and in the country's destruction, hand - hand with fascists. Congratulations. Your position has no place with the folk...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u186	The characterizations of keeping them for yourself. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u187	I understand very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Panayiot, you have the floor right after. You'll answer. He has the floor, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u189	Your position has nothing to do with the popular mandate you have received. You deceived the Greek people and continue to deceive them because you have no answer. Will the retired person be able to retire next week? What do you say to him, 120 euros? The hirer's the payroll of his labor? The unemployed will find the job he's been looking for for for so long? Will the country have allies and a strong position on the map? How's all this going to happen? In big words? With coroners of so-called proud resistance and divisive outbursts? You decided to leave the negotiations. You interrupted them proudly! Why? Do you have solutions? What's your plan? And who accepts it? Who recognizes it? Why are you leaving when so many small countries that have passed memoranda and tough austerity programs do not recognize your will to save them and change Europe? Why are those who want to prosecute us from the Eurozone first? I would like to ask you: Where are your allies? Who are they? We know them and don't tell them. They are all those who took out assets and wait for the change in currency to buy "bier than" as if they were black marketers the agony for survival of the Greeks. You who are fighting the multinationals have proposed tax on Greek businesses so that they can shut down those who have left. You know that multinationals are taxed elsewhere. Don't lie about taxing wealth. We did not hear about taxation on shipping. Your hidden allies are waiting at the corner the next day of the collapse. Eighteen countries now are against us. Are these all valents to drown the Greek people's will? Why is that? Because it simply suits you to present it, because your only priority is to destroy the country, so that it will be easier to sell hope again, as long as the disaster can be loaded to others. Your negotiation failed. The honest deal you'd bring turned out to be an empty shirt. You talked about dignity without money and you send people to despair, ATMs and supermarkets in panic conditions that remind the days of the Turkish invasion in Cyprus in 1974, at the same time as zetulas you lay hands on the "bad Europeans" to give you some more money to the banks to run and you withdraw what you have prevented from your own accounts. Tell us what the reality will be in the lives of citizens on the first day of the drachma? [[At this point, the ending bell of the Member is ringing.]] Thirty more seconds, Mr President, if you will allow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u190	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u191	Are there going to be kids' shelves, meds? Or are you going to introduce the new colonists who will come from Russia and who knows where else in the pocket they're full of tossing out on a hungry people? Why didn't you implement your program on your own? Why didn't you raise the payroll? You want to save Europe? Europe is in investment and opportunities fever, where Greece will be absent. Will you also give the opportunity to those young people who have persecuted and persecuted every day to participate in the referendum, those who are abroad, the young people who have not accepted to underestimate their diplomas and have preferred to disembark? Do you dare? We do not say yes to austerity or cuts. We say 'no' to the total destruction of the country. We say 'no' to the new fascism being built. ‘Yes’ means no further compression. 'Yes' means a new reform negotiation, the one you have never done. Because, as a wise song says, which you certainly have heard: "You can make fun of someone sometimes, but you can't make fun of them all the time." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u193	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u194	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u195	Although Mr Karayannides is not in the Chamber right now, I will give you the floor for a minute. With your well-known experience, the answer calmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I said yesterday at my position to the Government 'and do not argue to us that 'we and Junker, Olad, Renchi and the other European leaders are talking about 'yes' in Europe and therefore support the European course of Europe', because on the side of you with 'no' in Europe, 'no' in the Eurozone is Mrs Lepen and the nationalist party of France and all the Eurosceptics, who have the political position of breaking up the Eurozone.' Instead of answering politically, instead of saying that we have made a statement that we do not want the support of Lepen, instead of saying that we did something, Mr Karayannides, unfortunately, has chosen the method of mudology. He presented me as a partner of Lepen or of the best man - he says - of Lepen. [[At this point, the ending bell of the Member is ringing.]] Mr President, I would immediately ask that the honourable Member withdraw because they have no basis for truth about what he has said. Fantasies. Fantasies. He says, "Koubaro," he says. Fantasies. Crazy. Man's insane. What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u197	Don't get away from me now. As rapporteur, you will be given an opportunity in the second round, after the vote at first, which will be Mr Karayannides, to ask him to do so. I, since it's not here, can't give that answer. However, another Lepen and another Eurosceptic. The fact that Lepen is hiding behind the Eurosceptics is another story. Because I am a Eurosceptic and I am not a Lepen and I am in favour of 'yes'. We continue with the parliamentary representatives. Here comes Mr. Panagiottarus first. I hand over the Chair to Mr. Metropoulou and thank him. Thank you for your cooperation, despite the tension at some point. Thank you both gentlemen and the lady for helping me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u198	Come on, Mr. Panayotare, to continue the mild and civilized session. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u199	I don't know that. He'll show the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u200	We will seek it together, Mr Panayotar, all of us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin to argue on behalf of the Golden Dawn, but also on various issues, but above all on the upcoming referendum, I would like to give an answer to the previous speaker, who says 'hand, hand, with the fascists'. Firstly, we have the right to self-determination and we declare Greek nationalists. But even so, better fascist than humiliated, like you and your party who self-determination day after day, constantly, when the first question you brought to the Greek Parliament was in the interests of Bobola and goes by saying. And here we are, and we can answer you at all times and at all times for anything you want. [[Applause from the river wing]] We see the very serious problem that has arisen and that it would sometimes erupt, of course, because the situation in our country is like someone who falls from a hundred skyscrapers and up to two floors before it goes down to the ground and is dissolved to say 'here, we are doing well'. Because that is the official excuse of some people who are speaking and saying that so far everything was going well and was pomegranate. Two donkeys were fighting in a foreign barn. On the one hand we see those who have the triumphant courage, because that is what it is, those who have led the country after a four-year viciousness in this tragic situation now, with 28% official unemployment - without counting those who work for an hour or a week, where real unemployment is much longer - with our tens of thousands of fellow citizens killing themselves, a real genocide, with two hundred thousand young people fleeing abroad - most of whom have not left in recent months, although the fleeing continues massively, as if nothing has changed in recent years - with the closure and fleeing of thousands of businesses. Any undertaking that could go and go to Bulgaria and Romania has gone, the very big businesses have changed their seat and have gone to Mr. Juncker's homeland - the largest tax-free person in Europe, he and his country - and, of course, those who have been unable to stay here and weep their fate and, at the moment, have no opportunity to collect anything they could from their bank accounts. With the complete disappearance of the primary sector in all its manifestations, and especially in the last five years with the Memorandumary Measures where, while the justification was that all these measures are being taken in order to develop the economy, there was, of course, no development. And if we hear and remember the ridiculous excuses of the Papandreou Giorgakis, but also of others, that we would come out of '12 on the markets', we have to say that we are truly in the middle of 2015 and have not come anywhere, of course, and it looks like we're going out once and for all, because you've done everything ashes, in fact. You are the one who has the nerve and you speak, where, on the one hand, you expel the Greeks abroad as immigrants and on the other, fill with three and a half million illegal immigrants in our country, with all that that implies, of course, the alteration of the population of our country, which was purely Greek and Orthodox. You've been with all these scandals and hatreds all these years. Who would forget, from the past, that you carried the boxed papper boxes and took them to the Prime Minister, Andreas Papandreou, then, then continued with Tsukatos, again, with suitcases but back to the same party or the mistresses that took members and other parties. But, you see, you didn't have the courage, either of the former big parties, to bring Christmas home. Turns out it doesn't serve almost anyone, because you were probably all dived less or more in the mist, and it suits you to be away from abroad, because it has many names, names, which will scare you from one side to the next. On the other hand, so far, only one PASOK Minister has in prison, Chohatzopoulou, and this is because he has overcome the challenging fat with that famous marriage and he is saying, and everyone else is saying, even though there are some fifteen former PASOK ministers charged with hatred, stolen, for excitement. Of course, some such as Athanasopoulos, Tsovolas, had come in before. You are the ones who now forsake the Greek people in legality. You are the one that your parties have collected over 250 million maritime loans from the banks, which you support in any way, 250 million which would be extremely useful to the Greek people, along with all the sea loans that your friends have received, tens of billions of dollars. You are the ones who brought the Olympic Games with tens of billions of euros in debt, so that you and others can do your part and, of course, not the Greek people. You, the loan sharks - and anyone who wants to show us the opposite - have signed the limitation of national sovereignty, where the disputes between Greece and lenders on the basis of memoranda will be governed by English law, not by Greek law and will be resolved in the courts of Luxembourg. Let us remember what Mrs Benaki, the President of the Parliament, said in 2005 - if I am not mistaken - the first day she met the President of the Republic, Mr Papoulias, that we will see a restriction on national sovereignty. You've known them since, you've been preparing. But all you did was inflate your personal bills and nothing else. And you have the nerve to talk about today's downhill. You have reached a point, the abundance of democracy, which is the referendum, to try and make it a coup d'état act and various other theories, such as that - as Mr Venizelos said - is a constitutional diversion, and everything you have done over the years has not been a constitutional diversion. When you were imprisoning Members of the Greek Parliament, the Chief of the Third Political Force, when you did all these indulgences, together with many others, who slowly all come out in the forum, of course, it was not a constitutional diversion, it was all good. And we heard the rapporteurs of the New Democracy. We were listening to Mr.Voridis, who was the greatest enthusiast of Greece's exit from Europe until before, where he told parties where he was before or we listened to Mr.Gergiadis, where he is the most fanatical imaginary of Europe at the moment, of the tacocules, but from his shows he sells books by Ioannis Metaxas, who grew up with the saying: "Do what he must do and do." While you, Mr Georgiadis, do exactly the opposite of what Ioannis Metaxas says, who is so worshiping him - and welcome you - but rather for the eyes of the world. On the other hand, we have "the first time left", which is yes, it is only five months, but it had promised so much to the Greek people in an election and in the last two and a half years, but it has not been able to carry out anything essential from what he said nor the audit of the debt, which is the alpha and the omega to save the country. Because through an international debt audit, it will prove that most of the debt is infamous, it is illegal, it is taco-culpture and it will be able to eradicate it, so that it can take its homeland back and with movements of development of the primary and secondary sectors to begin to have growth, profits, revenues, so that it can feed its citizens, function its infrastructures, do all of this. But all this should not be done, for humanitarian reasons, by international law, for a country, like the conclusion of the Debt Control Committee, which was rather informal, under the auspices of the President of Parliament, Mr Zois Konstantopoulou. We repeat that it was of an informal nature. The committee used it, but did not dare to say - because lately everyone invokes Ioannis Metaxas and the "OH" which he had said - even the Minister, Mr. Tsironis, said that when he said "OH" Metaxas, the world did not go to supermarkets and went cheerfully to rank, to go to fight for his homeland. Yeah, but then there was a big difference. There was a national leader, he had prepared a people for four years, had self-sufficiency, had autonomy, had everything. He wrote disgraceful debts, such as the well-known debt to the Belgian bank and the reasoning of the homeland that he won was this - listen to it, because you will now see it - "Sometimes there can be an extraordinary situation, which makes it impossible for governments to fulfil their obligations towards lenders and to their people or at the same time. The country's resources are insufficient to fulfil both obligations at the same time. It is impossible to pay the debt and at the same time to give the people proper administration and the guaranteed conditions for moral, social and economic development. The painful problem arises when one has to choose between two tasks. One must retreat towards the other. What's that supposed to be? The theory acknowledges in this regard that the duty of a government to ensure the proper functioning of basic public services is greater than the payment of its debts. Where the debt payment jeopardises economic life and administration in the government, the government is obliged to discontinue and even reduce debt service." This was in 1938 on the government of Ioannis Metaxas. The case was won and this case was a basis for deletion of debts from other countries in more modern times, such as in Argentina in 2004 after the IMF who left with helicopters, where the supermarkets were burning and pillaging. They weren't looting after. They were looting over the IMF, so you know some people you're afraid of telling the truth. The same was done in 2007 by a state very proudly, apparently, in Ecuador, who did international debt audits and passed over 70% of their debt to America and elsewhere, legally. You didn't dare do that here, and you said it and you said it. That would probably be the only salvation. You promised too much, abolishing the ENPIA, you promised rocked rabbits, everything to everyone, and you cannot do anything, because, quite simply, you do not have the courage, you have the force. You've lost five months of precious. You gave them billions of euros in repayments, instead of at the very first time doing the audit of the debt and all that you were saying to do. You're bringing a referendum. Golden Dawn is certainly the only political force that has always been in favour of referendums. It is also in our programme and we are not afraid of the referendum, no matter what the question is either for this or for others. Here we ask a question to others, the co-government, the Independent Greeks. Why did you not demand a referendum on citizenship? It is a very serious issue, because the country has survived many bankruptcies, many difficult financial situations, but it will not survive if we will cease to exist as a Greek nation from racial - and not just - with this invasion by all sides and at the same time with the genocide of the memorials. As far as they all show, 'no' we will naturally vote in the referendum, we will vote 'no' to the measures proposed by the European Union, which are narcotics in fact. But what is your counter-proposal? Were they less painful? It wouldn't be 12 billion, and it would be 8 billion? It wouldn't be 8 billion, and it would be 7 billion? But once again, when Hardouveli was about EUR 1 billion, and the lenders were asking for 2.5 and what they all show - I don't know if we will be disproved or not - I think there will be an agreement, Mr President, before the referendum very likely or after that, we will take measures around 8 billion, three and a half times over what the lenders have been asking for at the end of last year, eight times over Hardouvel's mail, all of Greece will celebrate. This is very worrying for everyone, for our friends, for people who tell us what is going on, for people who are afraid and rightly afraid, but we need to take a mess at some point that, as we move on so far, we cannot move on. It's not a solution, SYRIZA. It turned out that you are very few - so they show all - for these very difficult circumstances, the moments that the Greek people are going through. But the referendum will come to take it off, the people who are intertwining exactly what Yunker, Merkel, and all these international loan sharks are saying, who only want and work out are the dissolution of the nations and the creation of communities of people, rajads, who will bend the head, and they will eat a slap. Wasn't it during the Turkish rule? The Greeks would have been fine, the Turk would have thrown a face over them or the Jew would have gone by the tax collector, he would throw them a face, he would take their money, they would hurt women and they would do well. They knew how their everyday lives were. Very good. They were increased to taxes, but they were used to, until some were found and they did what they had to do at other times. Yes, we want the referendum, to say 'no' to loan sharks, to say 'no' to restrict national sovereignty, which was done with the memoranda and which will be further done with the new memorandum that will come, no matter what it is called. They distorted the words of the Chief of Golden Dawn very much, who is clear. It's our place and it hasn't changed at all. We say that - and this is not only our theory - it is the theory of all those involved in the economy - that a state should have its own currency, but that for it to be done in a coordinated manner, with a plan, with a duration to get to somewhere, because without primary production you have either a euro that has a drachma or a ruble - that some others would like - whether you have a dollar or a Swiss franc, you will always go to the bottom, since you have no development and you have nothing to produce and everything comes from elsewhere. That's what they have to understand. There must be national production, development of the primary sector and, of course, of secondary, processing, mostly. To strengthen the industry, the one we once had collapsed, to re-establish it, the shipbuilding industry, the other industry, the tourism industry, which everyone is trying and falling into it in any way. Here we see a typical example. A "false" Greek was found and wants to rebuild Greek automobile, the well-known PONY cars. He's been trying for two years now to get a license and nobody's giving him anything. Man did not ask for any subsidies or anything. He asked to get permission, start producing Greek cars in Greece and export them to different countries in the world. And you don't give it to him. Most likely he'll leave and go to Bulgaria. And you, the first time left, five months now, why don't you give him an permission to ask for it? All right, the other guys were what they were, and they didn't give him. Why don't you help him develop it? He's ready for the man. A license would like to start tomorrow morning making Greek cars, made in Greece. But you don't care. No one cares about that. Each one for his own interests. And we have arrived today, the ATMs will not give anything, and the people who made their money illegally abroad - all those on the lists, which are supposed to be chasing them, but nobody can do anything, as Minister Nikoloudis said, to question Elias Cashiri - to be able with their card to make everything they want, to do what they want to do, to do everything they want to do. All at the expense of the Greek people. The Chief of the Golden Dawn said something the other day and no one answered. Let us repeat this: 'Ladies and colleagues, we really have a strange moment and do not hide behind our fingers. Yeah, there's tails behind the ATMs. This is a fact. Like also, it is true that last week, since Monday, the phones of many all over Greece and Athens had been broken in particular, which were said to "take the money out of the banks, because on Friday the banks will be closed". Aren't you running this country and ruling someone else?' That was the question of the Chief of Golden Dawn, which seems to be justified day after day more and more. And indeed, Mr Stournaras was invited last week to the Greek Parliament on two committees. He didn't come. He wrote them to his oldest shoes, with some justification that he has a workload, he must be abroad, he must be everywhere and he could see us - he meant the members of the committee - after 6 July, which he says 'the situation will be normalized'. Does Mr Stournaras really know more and we don't know about it? And why didn't he come to give the necessary explanations or help Greece? It seems that all of these operate for the benefit of others rather than the Greeks. Finally, I should like to say two words about this bill. I am going to stand alone in Article 25: 'Recognition of the term of office of dissatisfaction with institutions of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity'. Conscientious objections violate the Constitution, because all Greeks must bear weapons. We, too, served our fathers and grandparents, many of whom have shed their blood, where land, throughout Greece, so that today the conscientious objections can take retirement years. At the same time as they work, those who served their service anywhere on the border, on ships, on submarines, on planes, jumping from helicopters, jumping by parachutes, doing anything, of course, they don't have the right these years to consider them as pensions. It is an excitement and shame. We would also like to make a comment in a second article on the Red Cross. The Greek Red Cross, which at these difficult times should be on the front line of help of any Greeks in need, does not have the right to receive any insurance information from the huge scandals of Red Cross governors until beforehand, which, of course, was in complete knowledge, because the complaints were too many, the co-pilots of New Democracy, PASOK and others, but nothing happened at all. To conclude, Golden Dawn has always believed and said about any serious issue - serious or very serious - that better on the difficult path of national dignity and honor than on the easy path of overcompensated slavery to loan sharks. Whoever understands, you understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u204	Here, Mr Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Kegeroglu has said something, and I have to answer it. He asked me to withdraw things I said. I would like to say to Mr Kegeroglu that I am not going to withdraw anything, because what I have explained is not the reality. I have said this: PASOK and so Mr Kegeroglou have also worked with LAOS earlier and with Mr Vorides in New Democracy, who is the best man of Lepenn. This thing is a reality, and I'm not going to recall it. If he wants, to extend his reasoning to Lepen, let us know. The JRC supports the choice of exit from Europe. Does the JRC consider a nationalist party?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u206	He didn't have a personal report, Mr. Kegeroglu. I think mutual explanations have been given. You'll get the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u207	Did I ask you to speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u209	Well, then why do you answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u210	Why, I expressed you. You gave me the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u211	If I asked you to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u212	You got him. Do you want him for a minute? I think I expressed you because I interpreted your style. And I think I interpreted it well. Mr. Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. This is an amendment concerning the capital companies, public limited companies and the EIA, which concerns the time limit for convening a general meeting, which we are prolonging, in order to correct a problem that has arisen. International accounting standards have, as you know, been introduced in Greece with a legislation. The difference, in relation to the legislation of the past, is that when the financial statements are approved to the public limited companies, the tax obligations of the company must also be included. The introduction of this legislation has created a discrepancy between the time when tax declarations and obligations are submitted and the time when the companies are authorised to approve the financial statements. This time-consuming discrepancy is solved. From this point of view - there will also be a more permanent solution by incorporating the relevant European directive into the year - the adoption of the financial statements will depend on the deadline - I mean, in time, on tax declarations. That is the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr Stathakis. The list I have in front of me and my predecessor has given me is: Mr. Koutsoukos will now take the floor. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr Antonopoulou, and in turn Mr Petrakos, Mr Nikolaopoulos and Mr Pafilis will be inserted. If you would like to consult each other, but that is what Mr Kaklamanis gave me. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all have the feeling, regardless of which side we see developments, that we are experiencing critical and dramatic moments. Two streets are opening in front of us. One is the way of extreme polarization and division, and the other is the way to overcome, to assume responsibility, which is to us where the people and to reach agreement in order to find a solution, even at the last minute, to prevent the worst for our country. And this understanding, this has to be done on a genuine basis. And this real basis is no more than the truth. The truth has been afflicted, both in our place with lies, falsehoods, fantasies, conspiracy, all that has been defined in public life. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the country is on the verge of bankruptcy. Mr. Stathakis is gone. If anyone asked him the other day, he'd say we're ready, that we have on our fingertips the signature of the deal. But unfortunately for him and for those who believed that the country will find its way, we are on the brink of bankruptcy, with banks closed, with the economy frozen, with the world in full uncertainty, with the future uncertain. Instead of taking on the responsibilities that he asked for and took from the Greek people on the 25th of January, the government moves them to ordinary citizens with a falsely written referendum, in which he tries to distribute the answer and which was voted for by a large number of the parliamentary groups of the constituents SYRIZA - ANEL and the Golden Dawn. Last night, when I spoke on a point of order, I asked him what was going on with the pensions of two unpaid funds, and he replied to me that it was a management issue of the DIA. Today we learned that he and Mr Skourletis sent a letter to the administrations of the funds, where there is a euro surplus to go to the Bank of Greece, to give it to the other funds that they do not have to pay. And in any case, scanning everything, will the pensions of this month be paid, but can Mr. Army or any other government guarantee that next month's pensions will be paid, that the country will work next week? Ladies and gentlemen, the way we have arrived here is just as well known. I would like to remind you that - because I have lived here in this House - completely concisely. We were saying then, by exchanging views here with Mr Lafazani, who was a SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, that it is wrong on their part to undermine the election of the President of the Republic by slandering, accusing the MPs who wanted to vote as a silverman, setting up pragmatism with Members' and telephone watches, because he was helping the country smoothly to close the fifth rating, go to the preventive credit line and be safe whenever the people decided to take the government. I had said the words "if God asks you to take the government" and I was corrected by Mr Lafazanis and he said to me "the people". And I said: 'Yes, whenever the people are vindicating you, the country must be safe.' They blackmailed the elections, faked before and then took the government. Five months have managed this order in a completely obsolete way. They missed the opportunity, because the country on the 25th of January was better off than they are now, with primary surpluses, with credibility, to close the deal. They went on 20 February to a Eurogroup, where they signed the extension of the main financial contract to date that expired, that is to say they set dates and then made fun of their members and Parliament that they did not make any commitment, and it is clear what commitment they made to the Eurogroup on 20 February. While they were committed to closing the fifth assessment, they ate the time with the creative ambiguities of Mr Varoufakis and finally, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - I do not say it about SYRIZA, I say it about the Greek people - Mr Tsipras took his responsibility on Tuesday 23 of the month and sent the government's final proposal to the so-called institutions. And because this proposal did not have the kindness, but the responsibility to submit it by signing it to Parliament, to take note of the Greek Parliament and, if you like, to discuss it, because it feared the reactions of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, we learned it from the press, from the leaks. I have the official version of the proposal from the newspaper SYRIZA, the next day on Wednesday 24 of the month - so that no one can question it - and I will submit it in the Minutes for the history of the future. Because this proposal has not been formally tabled to the House. What does Mr Tsipras say about the institutions? It says, gentlemen, that I am sending you a proposal based on my commitment on the Eurogroup 20th, to close the budgetary gap and go to the next phase. This proposal I am sending to you has 1.51% of GDP for 2015, 2.87% in 2016, which I ensure by parametric measures, and 0.91% of GDP and 1.31% of GDP for 2015 and 2016 respectively, which I ensure by administrative measures. The total is 8.1 billion. What does this proposal provide for, ladies and gentlemen? It provides, first of all, that we will cut off 200 million from the defensive expenditure. I have heard Mr Kammenos bail, that the national defence is falling apart, that we cannot be protected from the attackers of national integrity. Well, isn't Mr. Kammenos a government partner? Didn't he know about this proposal? It includes this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of competitiveness, the abolition of reduced VAT on the islands, signed by Mr Tsipras. Well, isn't Mr. Kammenos a government partner? Didn't he see it? Did he disperse his attention? Because he made various other approaches, after a meeting with Mr Tsipras and they ended up in compensatory amounts, which we were told they were not doing, and then they told us that he was withdrawn. But Mr Tsipras' proposal is that and he has, ladies and gentlemen, an increase in the tax burden on all the Greeks. To the rich, SYRIZA colleagues say. Yeah, he's got the rich ones too, but he's got the poor ones too. Why, ladies and gentlemen, is it not a poor pensioner who will increase his contribution from 0% to 5% to supplementary pensions? Where are you going to increase the contribution to the main pensions to 5%? Isn't he poor? Aren't you going to reduce his pension? Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has wage reductions - Mr Tsipras with his signature - in public. Read it well. The proposal of the institutions, for which you are lying, is not mentioned anywhere in wage cuts. The proposal by Mr. Tsipras refers to reductions in public wages, the application of the new salary, starting with basic wages 31-12-2014 and cutting the plugins. Mr. Tsipras' proposal. And he has a reduction in pensions in farmers, because he will connect the OGA to a system of contributions and benefits, which will either cut his benefits or increase his contributions. It also has an increase in the taxation of farmers, because it has undertaken to ensure that farmers are not privileged. That's what he says, the difference. All of this is included here. And of course, he has an anthem in the private banking system, in privatisation, in the market economy, in the OECD reforms. All this! A manifesto. I put it in the Minutes that you should study it so that you don't lie to the people. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because if you had the courage, you'd put this proposal in a referendum. This is the Greek Government's proposal, and this proposal is not enough. Only about 400 million, for which from what I saw at the end of the process, as both governmental and European institutions have said, were these differences tightened. These differences were minimal. And will you take us to a referendum on these few differences, because you refuse to take your responsibility? And you're taking us to a referendum with the banks closed up with the economy broken up? And you claim and ask for 'no', without telling us what will happen next day. The next day, what will it mean, ladies and gentlemen? Will the banks open up? Is the economy going to work? What will be the framework within which Greece operate? We in this holocaust can't help but answer... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Did the timer work, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u216	Go on, you have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u217	We in this phony and blackmail respond with a 'yes' in Europe. We respond with a 'no' to extortionism, with a 'yes' to a new perspective agreement that the country needs. And Mrs Gennimata, our President, is not enough to tell the House the day before yesterday, addressing Mr Tsipras, has also taken an initiative, by her own letter to the leaders of the Socialist parties taking part in governments, so that there can be an extraordinary summit and this summit can be held. What Mr Tsipras asks the leaders to extend the programme cannot do, because the prolongation of the programme goes through the parliaments. In any case, there are other initiatives under way today which ends the programme. Let Mr. Tsipras take over a responsibility. Staying attached to Sunday's "no" leads the country to the rocks. Because he cannot answer the SYRIZA officials himself - I am watching here and the media - what will happen Monday. So, the exports that have been frozen, why is there no raw material in the packaging materials going to work on Monday? There are no means of transport. Will they work on Monday? Are importers, which cannot bring raw materials for the industries and craft industries, going to work on Monday? The real economy how it works on Monday? That's not what you're answering. Unless what you led with your inappropriateness, it was not a dead end caused by your internal contradictions and because you could not solve your internal issue. You might put us on suspicion that it was a plan. Because it was revealed by the American Minister of Finance, with whom Mr Tsipras talks on a regular basis - you thought they were your allies - that he had spoken with him about the need for capital control and for banks to close down. So, can we come to the conclusion that you knew them, you hid them, and you worked for the Greek people? I don't want to take it easy, but that's what you need to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we, with the theory of games, to which the Prime Minister joined, in acknowledging Mr Varoufakis' views, have nothing to do with this. A historian of the Left, Costas Filinis wrote the book "The theory of games and the political strategy". If I remember correctly, he had also made director of "AGEI". If Mr. Friend was here, he'd confirm it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u218	He did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u219	So Mr. Philine paid his views with prisons, with exiles, to prosecute me. Mr. Varoufakis will win his opinions and his fellow banks will win. This is the difference in the theory of games for anyone who embraces it in this critical period for the country. In conclusion, I call for more and more understanding at this critical moment, in order to avoid the worst. Because there's no better. There's only worse. I would also like to make a reference, Mr President, to the Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Theocharis, going down from the Step. I believe it to be my duty, because in the historic period of post-multi-population, which has ensured the best conditions for Greek citizens, peace, democracy, equality and progress, many people are taking it to highlight their own blurred proposals and approaches to developments. And it coincides with this isotopeism with the theories of extremities. Fascists say the same thing. I consider it very dangerous, slippery by Mr. Theocharis, and I think it should be recalled, because, apart from the fact that he does not value historically the developments, he also deserves the choices of today's government, which gives her an alibi for the destruction in which he leads the country, as a condensation of post-junta policies, which - as I said - ensured both the peace and democracy and the equal participation of our country in European developments, a country of proud and proud, which is entitled and will strive to be, by rejecting extortion and false dilemmas. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. You who are modest and historical Elias, with the words "Baroufakis will win", I think you have exaggerated. I know that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u221	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u222	I said the phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u223	He saw Mr. Papandreou's development.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u224	I say down there on 'historical Elias' because we have common origin. Minister Ranja Antonopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor to support the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour with a special number of 216 and a general of 65 on the management of the European Globalisation Adjustment and Adjustment Fund. Before I come to our amendment and to make it clear that it relates exclusively to the Globalisation Fund, I am tabling a piece of legislation and I would ask that it be shared with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u226	To be distributed, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous programming period 2007-2013, the European Social Fund Special Coordination and Monitoring Agency carried out actions funded by the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, as defined by the FCH of Ministers for Economy, Competitiveness and Maritime Affairs and Social Security published in FEK 692/B/21-5-2010. However, measures to implement this fund were then not part of any legislative framework. Normally, they should have joined Law 3614/2007. This was compulsory, on the one hand, to ensure the efficient use of the funds of the Fund and, on the other hand, to ensure that the respective national contribution is paid. The problem was ultimately identified by the leadership of our Ministry and then a European Commission audit contacted the Greek authorities that the lack of a legislative framework, which would be based on the development of the system for managing the operations of the Globalisation Fund, is a systematic systemic pathogen. This pathogen should be cured for the new programming period, so that the country does not bear any imputation. The law to which the provisions on the Globalisation Fund had to be included is Law No.4314/2014. This is because this law regulates issues relating not only to the European Structural and Investment Funds but also to a variety of financial mechanisms, including the Globalisation Fund. The interventions of this Fund for the period 2014-2020 are extremely important, particularly in the present time and moment, since they enable all Member States to support workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose professional activity has ceased, due to the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis. Our amendment therefore cures precisely this unfortunate omission to incorporate the EGF 2014-2020 into the provisions of the law so that this legal gap does not cause systemic and management failures and delays in the proper implementation of this fund in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the amendment because it ensures the effective management of the funds, the performance of the respective national participation by the Public Investment Programme, cooperation with other financial instruments, the timely submission of new requests for funding from our country to the fund and, in particular, the immediate implementation of the measures that we have proposed - the implementation of EUR 33 million - so that these funds are not lost. Finally, Mr President, I would like you to give me two more minutes, because I would like to support Amendment No 211 and Amendment No 60, which have tabled by fellow Members of the SYRIZA, and which proposes adding a provision on the cases of assistance to Disabled Persons and Remuneration Remunerations for Employment. In accordance with Article 21(6) of the Constitution, Disabled Persons have the right to enjoy measures ensuring their autonomy, professional integration and participation in the social, economic and political life of the country. In addition, in accordance with Article 10 of the Law. 3304/2005 prohibit any discrimination against disabled persons in the field of employment and work. However, in Greece, before and after the crisis, the United States is experiencing considerable difficulties in accessing employment. For example, according to Eurostat figures for 2011, Greece is lacking in the European Union in terms of employment of the UAA and the other aspect of the unfavourable position of the UAA is reflected in the much higher unemployment rates that this group is facing in our country. In Greece, the interruption of the disability allowance, where the person is part of reintegration programmes, creates a stimulus for the activation of the ADIs and thus removes the effectiveness of active integration policies, effectively circumventing the moleculosis granted to potential disabled persons. In essence, the proposed provision removes these counter-incentives created by existing legislation on the vocational reintegration or integration of the disabled, a vulnerable social group. So we invite you to support her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Minister. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks has the floor. Subsequent to Mr Athanasios Petrakos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Next is Minister Theodore Dritsas. We don't have another speaker. Mr Pafilis will be involved in the debate on the articles. The vote will take place at the beginning. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed awkward to have the attitude of Officer Response missing from this debate on the most sensitive part of Greek society, people with disabilities. They did, listening to what this bill, which we shall shortly be voting on, provides for and comes to heal? Did they do it to avoid control of consciousness? Because a slap is the vote on this memorandum of memorandum policy, which has been followed over the last five years and has even led to this group of people, who must at the most difficult times, to find the support of a favoured state. Indeed, there has been so much talk lately that since it is a European state, it is obvious that it will have such social justice and approximation programmes. It seems that they feel the need to go - it says - to inform the people about 'yes'. However, this is not a strong argument to be absent unreasonable and hung out of the Chamber today, which is being discussed by this bill. And it's not a strong argument, because others have taken over this job. This job is taken care of by strangers. There is no need for Mr Samaras, Mr Venizelos, Mr Theodorakis. They don't need them. And of course, even parliamentarians don't need it. Who didn't listen to Mr. Juncker yesterday, in an alternative and in a repeat of fifty-five times and all strangers? After all, just before my colleague took the floor from PASOK, he repeated these arguments. Together, all the memorial bearers, great journalists and great-grandfathers are also close to them. Today, Mrs Stay made a statement because yesterday, from the Step of the House, I said what the Greek citizen receives every day. I said that the well-known channels of mediation and other interlocutory, from morning to night, are falseing, misleading and essentially transferring the views of lenders, thus distorting and devouring, even the Prime Minister himself who clears up at every opportunity, but also all of us, that we are both Europe and the euro and in no way want anything different. So Mrs Stay today in a written announcement tells me that I lied to the House and writes: "You will certainly not sneeze us and it is understood that you will not continue to lie against us. Justice in this country is there." Mrs Stay, if you think that here in Parliament we will get Mrs Stay's permission or the canalarchs, who other people are free of paper from doctors and on restrictive terms and others are convicted, and most of them do not even want to pay their taxes, you are wrong. Or if Mrs. Stay thinks we're taking the D.A.'s license, she's also wrong. I'm filing it to stay in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But together, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state what Mrs Stay said: 'Municipality - a paradox which can be a tragedy. We are being blackmailed by 'yes' or 'no' in the euro. I am sorry, but that is it," says Mrs Stay, and so she does the 'no' in the referendum with the drachma. It says: 'Yes or no to the euro is this referendum'. Mrs. Stais, you'll know Greek for sure. And I don't have anything with Mrs. Stay, it didn't happen. Besides, I am of humble origin from a working neighborhood of St. Trinity in Patras. I've been selling bubbles since I was eight, 'cause I was an orphan. What can we do? But it's not just Mrs. Stay. It is also Mr Protesteris who says: 'Who would have told us that we would be going to a referendum in which we would actually vote whether we would stay or leave the euro'. Well done, Mr. Protestanter! And it goes on: 'In fact, we will vote on what currency the banks will reopen. We will not vote on VAT in food and insurance contributions but on whether the country wants to remain in Europe and the euro." I put it in the Minutes, because they too have children and we have children, and we have to remember what we were talking about in this Chamber. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And in order to compare what foreign lenders say, if entirely symptomically the same as the 'objectives', as Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou said yesterday, to the other lady there in the SCAI who said to her: 'Actually, why does not Mr Alfouzos come to ask the questions? Is it necessary?' because she is objective. While I, everyone knows that I am with the normal New Democracy, which is now working with the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA, I want to keep up the dignity of those who are, while being neo-democratic, while they are right, patriots. And they mean that all those who don't want to be carpazisparatists, those who don't want to see a Prime Minister humiliated and worshipped, are on this big palatial front of 'no'. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday on the television show I am making, the journalist and former publisher of the New Democracy, Mr Spyros Trishas, said that there is a fund, not of absent corps, but that a fund has been set up - I say it for the pragmatism that you heard just before a colleague - who is funding, says, the 'yes' fight. Mr. Pappa, he turned me into my youth when we had the referendum on the kingdom, where then they were looking for who finances their royals and organisations. I think it's time, you know, to check this complaint, because yesterday many viewers said: “There is no prosecutor? Does he not listen?’ And today no prosecutor saw this front page? Does anybody want to live again, Juliana? I read the title of a newspaper: "Apostasia. With hundreds of millions of euros, loan sharks are trying to cancel the referendum. An offer of 5 million head to every Member of Parliament who is going to retire." Take her, to be in the Minutes, because she said: "Pharsomia" the previous one. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned newspaper, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] If it's a pragmy, Mr. Koutsouko, let's reconversion, let's see the "Athens" and the others of justice how they filed the case Haikalis. Come here. I think we'll do it. We ask for it persistently and I think that the government will give this opportunity to see again what happened then. I would also ask the government to arrange for the threatening messages we accept - those who accept - through accounts, through twitter, that they hang us, that they kill us. Let go of the pricks. It's okay. I'm not talking about slander. I'm talking about threats. They tell me they come from a specific center. They tell me they're employees of the previous government. They tell me they're civil servants. They tell me they're employees paid by the congress funds. Please order Mr. Sfakianakis to examine which ones they post from. Please, you have an obligation, not to my face, which you have not done so far, when we name here in the House, I tell you that we are getting blackmail and threats. Please give your orders. I give my own account and any other colleague who wants and has messages like that will do the same. Check the complaints either today by Mr. Kouris or by what Mr. Spyros said yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard that there are very few differences. We've heard it from everyone. Don't say Mr. Koutsuku's name again. It's the same poem we hear. It may be in another language, one may say in French, another in German, the other in Greek, but the ones that are from there say the same thing. Why don't you tell them, if they're up - down the same way, to accept? Why are you saying only to Mr. Tsipras and the Greek Government? Tell your pals there, because they don't want us to leave, since they love the euro, since they love us, the Greek people, tell them to say yes. Are these pssycats? Didn't you tell us? No, slowly - he says - for so long - he fights down, he says, Tsipras. No, it says -- in Soviet City, Tsipras wants to take us. That's why - he says - he's doing it. Mr. Koutsoukos said he was doing it for another reason. They said, he knew the trick was going to be shut down by the banks. Uh, sure. They're judging the odds! Did anyone think that he would be a university professor at Harvard, George Papandreou? Ask me, too, where we have been elected since 1989. No one thought that could be done. If you're with them, you might be that too. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is an agreement tonight, what will they say? They're all together now. They said it yesterday. Did you hear him in the parliamentary group? It says: "All together we are together" and the river and the palm. 'We are all together...' - he says - '...children'. Yes, sir. What will happen to have been disproved that this was a planned plan, that we wanted to throw the country on the rocks? What are they gonna say? Why don't they answer? Is that enough political ridicule? No, this is a lot more serious. I would like to tell you that, yesterday, the lenders may have spoken, with a little bit of time on the same day, that their local expressions here from political staff and from the mediators could speak. Did you see the "News"? "Appointment of payments..." says Mr. Psycharis, "... throughout the market". What about Mr. Bobola? The country, shock and awe, in the "air" Greece. Mr. Alafuzu? Mr. Poppa, did Mr. Alafuzos pay? You're not answering me. I don't know why you're avoiding answering me. I don't understand why. Today they are anxious, my dear Minister, whether they should and how they will pay the IKA. Since the morning I have been taken by people who will vote 'no' but who ask what they will do. They have no grief, because they go and make decisions, he says, Mr. Pappa. I asked the Conference of Presidents the day before yesterday about the choice of the new President of the Ice Arena: Can a peacekeeper say that Mr. Melissanides' address is unknown, and so does he not pay 11.5 million and not need the Army, so as to say 'come and pay and I will delete your fines'? They say he stayed in the Old Psychic, didn't go to the ILO to change his address, and so the Peacekeeper told him "as many fines, 5.5 million came from the time you didn't go to pay, they were deleted. And if you had to go to the ILO, to the Piraeus FAO and say that you changed your address!" Well, aren't we ashamed? You're letting them fool us? And now, all the channels across the street. However, as it is across the street, the more the people get angry - you saw it yesterday in the squares of resistance - because it has understood. "Speaking signals" therefore sees Mr Alfouzos, who also learns that he is among the "poor" who wanted to regulate. He didn't pay, Mr. Pappa, those fees you told us he had to pay. So while the Prime Minister, as he says today, even in about five, will make a decision, if there is a sustainable solution, still some people here do not understand it. However, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday they spoke in the squares and told the lenders and the locals a lot of the hundreds of thousands gathered. The parents, who are necessarily sending their children fast in schools, talk to grandparents, who no longer have money to give their grandchildren. They speak the mothers who saw their children leave abroad. There are other mothers talking, Mr. Juncker, who have learned that they are going to have children who have not endured and moved on to the doom of suicide. But on Sunday the people will speak! I'll talk to you and you, we'll all talk. And that won't matter if someone thinks that today they may fool the world. We will all talk, because in Greece there is democracy, there is national sovereignty and we will not give it to them because they think we can all become 'good Samarades'. If, now, the Greek people really are looking for such, pilgrims, for 'yes', for 'yes to everything', then they really have a choice that the Prime Minister said yesterday. The choice is to vote "yes" and turn them, to continue their "savings" policy that led us here, who lived well and better, but the Greek people lived worse. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, as I have just said yesterday, the promotion and implementation of measures of social solidarity for disabled people is well known to all of us to be a permanent obligation of the state, of society and of the state. But it wasn't for the others to do it. In these difficult times this government has been found, many of what some feel are important, small, to do. In these difficult times some people are terrorizing us. Today's bill shows exactly what this government's orientation is. It is that orientation, which I am sorry but has lost the party that Mr Samaras has changed for a long time. The party that stood out throughout Europe, because while going to Central Right, had strong ties with popular and humble classes, precisely because of the fact that his policy wanted to have a social dimension. We Independent Greeks, Minister, will vote in favour of this bill and state that, until the end of the day, we have absolute confidence in a Prime Minister who shows that he does not receive orders from foreigners, which shows that he has coolness and that, in any case, makes all Greeks - and those who faint and understand them and those who do not have the courage to say 'no' - proud. In conclusion, since I believe that the Conference of Presidents will temporarily end the work of the House, I would like here, from the Stepping of the House, to call on all those who feel their patriotic duty to expel fear and understand that everyone else has an interest in it 'to vote'. Greek citizens have an interest in voting for a rhetoric 'no', a 'no' that actually leads to a united Europe, but solidarity and advancement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The Minister of State, Mr. Nicos Pappas, has just asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to refer to two amendments, which have been tabled in the short term in this draft law. The first is the amendment tabled to Mr von Wogau. In this respect, the Commission considers that the marketing services agreements with Ryanair and AMS constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the This, if it does, will have very dramatic consequences, especially for the small media, which are not able to access the advertising market. The government, of course, knows that there were other types of imbalances in the advertising market, with advertising companies that had liquidity and power more than it should have done, resulting in media being unfavourable. However, we are now giving an extension so that we can continue to operate smoothly and, with all the parties involved, start a consultation which will shortly be completed and which I am sure will result in arrangements for equality and healthy competition in this market. Therefore, the amendment concerns the replacement of the previous regulation in Article 12(2) of the n. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work was rejected by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I think that, when this process is completed, we will have a very much improved reality in this market. Secondly, I would like to refer to an amendment to extend the aeronautics declaration for radio stations. This amendment gives an extension of a few months until the end of October of this year, so that the radio stations can declare to the National Committee for Telecommunications and Post all their antenna systems. The radio stations were required by 17 June to submit an electronic statement on the specific technical specifications - construction, height, location and coordinates - and this amendment was deemed necessary in order to facilitate several radio stations, which were unable to complete the procedures in question within the previous deadline, which were admittedly too short. After all, we have been informed that many radio stations have been inclined to make the relevant statement in the last few days, with the result that there are problems in the electronic registration system. We are therefore asking the House to approve it, so that the procedure for submitting these declarations can be completed. I would ask you to accept the amendment. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, and a comment on the current negotiation process, because things are running and time is dense. Many political and other centres are trying to create impressions and publicity in order to impose their own perspective. We have heard a lot in the last few days of 'democracy', 'democratic - pragmatism', and even 'democratic coup d'état'. Listen to what we have heard, that the referendum is a coup d'état! I mean, our people are cool. He has nothing and should not be afraid of anything and much more and the members of the National Representation should not be afraid of anything. Let us tell the people that, the more they try to frighten them, our people must know and understand that the more they fear their verdict and emancipation, which in a few days' time will be deafening and emphatic and will leave no room for doubt. I do not want to dwell on what has been said over the last 24 hours on the Greek Government's proposals. We could trigger a debate with the public positions of European leaders, which will not help the negotiation process. We won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u232	Was that the ESS? Was it the pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u233	Don't interrupt, Mr. Nicolopoulos. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u234	Would you excuse me, Mr. Nicolopoulos? I will just say that it is rather remembranceful to say that the Greek Government's proposals have protected the owners and possessors. We all know each other and know each other very well in Europe. This type of wording has nothing to do with reality. Some centers dream that the Greek Government, on the basis of some leaks, could at present say that it is stopping the referendum or - listen! - that the Prime Minister himself will turn and campaign for 'yes'. I'd recommend temper. And if they cannot conquer it, I would say to them: let no longer be exposed to the attempt to terrorize our people, which - because polling is not just us, but others - know that they too are in a vacuum. The referendum will be held properly. The question is clear and Greece is working at every moment, without stopping, for a solution with serious foundations, a European solution, a solution that will manipulate Europe from its extreme neoliberal voices and enable it to return to its powerful and very serious social and political traditions. Let's not dream. Referendum normally. Potential 'no' by our people. Endorsed by the Economic and Social Commit­tee on 25 November, subject to a number of comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I would like to submit to the Minutes some of the tweets to which I have referred.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u237	You should testify, of course. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Athanasios Petrakos, next Minister Theodores Dritsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in history there are always the leaders who at critical times say 'no' to the devastation of democracy, 'no' to the destruction of popular sovereignty, 'no' to the destruction of the pride and dignity of our people. In history, therefore, Greece and the Greek people - whatever the local and foreign parrots say - will remain Alexis Tsipras and the entire government for its historic decision to say "no" to the Italian challenges of blackmailed lenders. In the history of the peoples, however, it is time for them to decide on the great 'yes' and 'no'. So we call on the Greek people to say a great "yes" to people's sovereignty, a great "yes" to democracy, dignity and independence, a great "yes" to the future and to the positive prospects of the people and above all of youth. We call on him to say 'no' to extortion, 'no' to coups, 'no' to diversion, 'no' to the destruction of popular sovereignty. They thought the Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF would be afraid. They thought Alexis Tsipras was George Papandreou. They thought they could blackmail, because that's what they did so far and they got out. They're fucked! They thought that this government would bring a memorandum, that they would repeat Cannes. They're screwed, because luck is taken by the people in their hands. Ladies and gentlemen, with his historic decision the Ministerial Council will in a referendum put the unacceptable proposal of submissiveness and social demolition and call on the people to say a great 'no', this 'no' will turn into a people's avalanche. It is a turbulence, as the Minister said, that both creditors and their domestic supporters have fallen everywhere. So there is no doubt, after all these days, who is afraid of the referendum, who is afraid of talking to the people, who is afraid of the outcome of the people's decision on Sunday? The turbulence has also fallen in the domestic communiqués - we have seen the concern and turmoil - because they are obliged to be placed with a 'yes' or 'no' in the hard memorandum requested by the creditors. Of course, in cooperation with other friends of the interlocutory, the media, they are trying to distort the question, because they are ashamed to say yes to the new memorandum. That is why we are responding to all this with democracy. We in the face of authoritarianism and cruel austerity respond with democracy, coolness and determination. We call on the Greek people not to be afraid. We call on the Greek people, whatever they hear by Sunday - since Mr. Yunker said whatever the question, the Greek people say 'yes' - to say 'no' to the new memoranda, to say 'yes' to an agreement that will delete the debt, cancel the austerity, give a development perspective to the country. With this kind of perspective, there can be a solution in Greece. They cannot discuss the debt issue. They will talk about it, but it will be a dala noon. It is not possible that the Germans, when the winners of the Second World War, while they blooded humanity, carried them over 65% of the debt, refuse to offer part of what they won in Greece since its entry into EMU and those who won their banks from what was done in 2009. Because, therefore, they cannot, despite the organized plan under way since January 25, to overthrow the government - because that government has decided to rely on the people, but not as Pontius Pilate, but by directly saying its proposal to say 'no' - they are doing everything they can now to terrorize the world. It was taken over by the domestic centers of the interlocutory. The newspapers of the group, which have a ancestor, to remember, the "ELEVERERO VIMA", who served the German propaganda in the Occupation and became "BIMA" then to rinse the apostasy, with the compromised titles of the dictatorship. They return more closely to the economic war against Greek society in a scrapping operation, headlines coming from Brussels. But nothing's going to pass. We will not ask for the permission of Mr. Shoeble and Mr. Dieselblum to safeguard democracy at the place where he was born, said Alexis Tsipras yesterday. The lovers of the Memorandum, the Hatziabadians of the contractors, the mistakes experienced in politics with some political course and with the formations of the Left, and the zero-worked descendants of political families who have not explained or "outside", must respond, because they will be found on Sunday, they want - do not want - in the face of the great dilemma: "yes" to continue the destruction of the Greek people, "yes" to new memoranda or "no" to blackmail, "no" to new memoranda. This economic, political and psychological war that the Greek society is currently living in will be won by the Greek people, because the Greek people have a long history of struggles and because the memorials for those who want to impose them are the essence of their logic and their politics. That's what it turned out to be. We have tabled serious proposals. We made big compromises with forty-seven pages. But look at what's gone out. What did they come back and erase? They have returned the extraordinary contribution to businesses with profits of more than EUR 500,000, because that is not to be done. They have returned the tax on gambling, because that is not allowed at all. What did they suggest? What else prevented? They prevented taxation in triangular transactions, because this is also forbidden. But what should continue? We must continue to reduce pensions, increase the tax on labour and social genocide. Parliamentary Representative Koutsoukos spoke of farmers. Farmers, do you know what the lenders want from you? They want, firstly, a uniform tax rate for farmers with free professionals and businesses, secondly, an increase in the rate of taxation from 13% to 26%, thirdly, an increase in the tax rate from 27% to 100%, fourthly, a abolition of the subsidy tax for up to EUR 12 000 voted by our Government, fifthly, a reduction in the tax on oil consumption to farmers, sixthly, a reduction in half of the electricity subsidy for 2016, seventhly, an increase in the price of agricultural electricity, eighth, a tripling of the VAT on agricultural supplies to 23% from 13%, tenthly, an increase in VAT on all agricultural products to 23%. That is what the lenders are proposing to farmers. I say this to Mr Koutsukouko who told farmers to vote 'yes'. That's what they're suggesting. So who will vote 'yes' when they are their proposals? The Greek Government is now fighting hard in conditions of unprecedented economic suffocation in order to implement the mandate of the Greek people. And this bill that comes here today is the mandate given to it by the Greek people. This bill brings it to the government to cancel Memorandum Laws, to relieve people with disabilities, to make CEPDs work, to give freelance professionals a chance to get their pensions, because they have shut down their businesses. However, the aim of the lenders was specific, that is to drown the government and throw it down. But that won't work. These days, the government has spoken to us in the name of the poor and the losers, for it has denied slavery and caging. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, 'first time left' means 'first time democracy'. It is shameful to say that it is a coup d'état to express the will of the Greek people. You say 'yes in Europe'? Well, don't you know that there have been forty referendums in Europe and in Greece there has been no forty years? Is that the 'yes' in Europe that you are telling us? You told us on the first day that the referendum is unconstitutional, because a referendum on budgetary matters is forbidden. This is completely untrue and wrong. But really, the memorial was constitutional? What bothers you - and what the Greek people have to learn - is what bothers those who want to say 'yes', it is democracy. Because we have addressed the people, because we know that the war that we have suffered is not going to win it ourselves. We will only win him with the active involvement of the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So the message from the referendum will be shocking and unique, and it will be a great 'no' to us and to all the peoples of Europe affected by austerity. We therefore call on the entire Greek people, the workers, the pensioners, to call on the young people to reject the creditors' ultimatum. We invite retired people to think of their grandchildren. We call on the Greek people to say "no" to the authoritarianism of austerity, "no" to the destruction of the country and its people, "no" to the pillaging of national wealth. The fight we're giving is not just for us. It is a fight for dignity and democracy in Europe. Yes, whoever is with Europe is with 'no', because the policies of austerity, submissiveness and destruction of democracy must be defeated, do not have a place in Europe. So the first brave step taken by our people on the 25th of January we invite him to complete it on July 5, to write a golden page in the history of the Greek people and to hear this great 'no' in Europe. That is our answer, the one that the Greek people must give and vote against the barbaric efforts of the institutions, to vote against the catastrophe of popular sovereignty. The Greek people must take the decision on their future, above all for youth - which hundreds of thousands have gone abroad all this time - without fear, without the terrorism of those who have not seen the millions of unemployed in the tails, but who now see the tails in the ATMs. The Greek people can live, stand by. Sunday's referendum is a great battle in the conflict that is being fought to change things in Europe as well, to overthrow austerity policies in Greece. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. The honourable Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Theodores Dritsas, has the floor. After that, the Minister has Mr. Army. We shall then proceed to the vote at first reading to follow the debate on the articles. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to present and support two amendments. One amendment is number 205 and number 55, and the other is number 222 and number 71. I would like, however, before I move on to present these two amendments, to make a brief comment on the issues that both Parliament and the Greek people have been very busy in these days. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear now that the Greek Parliament, with a proposal from the Government, has decided and proposed to the Greek people that it triggers the process provided for by the Constitution to make a decision on such a crucial issue. There may be a lot of different views on whether the question is correctly formulated, about what the government's intentions are, about that or about it, but the obvious evolving, systematically planned - both within the country and abroad - an attempt to cancel the referendum cannot be tolerated either by democracy or by the historical tradition of that country. The opinions, even the extremes, the most neoliberal, the hardest - which on them have now been assembled by the hard political ghettos still dominated in Europe and dominated for many years in our country - can be held up in the context of political confrontation. Such a systematic effort, which is evolving daily with the entire mediation system in Europe, in the world and in our country, is active, in order to cancel a people's chance of saying its opinion, cannot withstand any tradition. Mr. Koutsukos is gone. Indeed, Costas Filinis wrote the book "Theatrical of games and political strategy". In fact, if I remember correctly, this book wrote it in prison as a prisoner. However, he was a prisoner and a left-wing fighter, who then called him "a gangrier", called him "anti-national actor", called him "an agent of foreign forces". In this tradition one must stand with more respect, before attempting - because it is a long way to indulge it and I respect and appreciate and love Mr Kutsuko very much - these clever controversy between tradition and modern Left. They should leave them for another tradition, in which he has participated, and not for the left deliverance. And I refer to the hint about Yannis Varoufakis and much more. I would also like to say to him that exactly Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, when a large-sizer of this structured elite of Europe told him that the game was over, answered him with a paid response that has already been recorded in the dignity of the Greek people. He told him that we are not playing here, and that this game, which you say, means a couple of thousands of people who have lost their lives, some millions of unemployed, some millions of poor people, some millions in terrible suffering. Yes, well, this government on the 25th of January has been instructed to fight, to resist this harsh alliance in our country, but also internationally, I am aware that, when you are fighting so hard, you will indeed have to face incredible difficulties. That's something we never hid. Ladies and gentlemen, this five-month period has changed not only Greece, but also Europe. Of course, everything's still in play. History doesn't just write. History is written on a path and every moment of it, every day, every week, every month, each year has the meaning for the next day, for the next moment, for the next week, for the next year, for the following year. What we are now living for is certain that the Greek people, as well as the European peoples, will be fruitful in the next period, in a Europe that will put an end to the monocracy of neoliberalism and austerity. But for this route, it really takes hard times and moments that everyone is tested. Here, then, all the bloc that the opposition to the government has put together must say one thing. He must say whether he supports Mrs Merkel's proposals and Mr Yunker's proposals. He has to say it clearly. And he hasn't talked about it so far. He should tell the Greek people a criticism of the policy and tactics of European allies and partners. Not at the edge of the speech, but as a political position. And they should be presented in Europe with their brothers parties, to see if they are the first to change these things or to maintain and reproduce them. They have this responsibility to the Greek people. Also, if so much they think that this evening comes the great disaster and the Armageddon, they have a timely responsibility to put the request for an extension. The Greek Government requested it in time in the name of the Greek people. Did anyone support this request from the Opposition?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u241	Didn't you hear about the letter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u242	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u243	I'm the one, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u244	What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u245	And now that tonight...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u246	Didn't he hear about the letter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, your protection...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u248	Gentlemen, please. Let the Minister finish. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u249	Didn't he hear about the letter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u250	And now that this evening is announced by all these forces - the block that has united this unholy alliance - the Armageddon, and now I don't see a single call or now I don't see it and I don't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u251	You don't see, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u252	On the contrary, a moment ago, from this step, from your space, Mr Kegeroglu, your representative, we heard that this cannot be done, because all the European Parliaments must be convened. You have already justified that. I'm telling you, let's have a clear explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u253	Didn't you hear about the letter of birthday?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u254	Calm down, Mr. Kegeroglu. I've had a drink.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u255	Didn't you hear about the letter of birthday?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, what will happen? I don't understand. Mr. Kegeroglu will be interrupting the Minister all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u257	Mr Kegeroglu, and the referendum is going to take place and I humbly want to claim my speech to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u258	Not humble. You and your wife in the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u259	It's disgraceful! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u260	Gentlemen, please! Don't interrupt the speaker. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u261	I'll keep going. And I hope that Mr Kegeroglu will allow me to conclude my speech. Thank you. I now enter what's important too. For the ministers, Mr Solana, who recommends it, and Mr Skourletis and the amendments of Members and Ministers, have brought together a bill that solves problems, promotes solutions to key issues and makes changes - not spectacularly, not historically, but of crucial importance - and indeed in a direction targeted, direction of justice, parity, restoration of injustices and strengthening of functionality on a number of issues that have remained outstanding or which have created complications. In the same direction are the two amendments which I am proposing today on behalf of many other Ministers and the Minister of Economy, Mr Stathakis, and the other signatories of these amendments. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] I will speed up, Mr President. The amendment under number 205 and specific number 55 have seven articles. In Article 1, we are taking a completely innovative initiative to protect maritime work. You all know - you've heard of it lately - the drama of unpaid sea work. We are intervening - it is unresolved and processed that we have announced and consulted - for more overall regulation on the subject with this article. For the first time, it is possible to obtain a guarantee letter in good execution on subsidized lines of the coastline, from the discount of the guarantee letters, where a company proves that it does not fulfil its contractual obligations and falls under that contract, that the guarantee letters, by means of a procedure provided for, cover a significant part, the largest possible and proportionately and by arrangements laid down, of the unpaid seafarers who were on these ships and which the company left them unpaid and did not meet the State. It is for the first time that such arrangements come in such a direct and plausible way. At the same time, for the first time, the possibility of being removed from the hostage is regulated by a next paragraph. You will have watched all this time that on many of these ships the workers had declared their employment. The ship was in Samos "MYTILINE". The workers were away from their families, they couldn't leave the space, seek another job, live decently, as long as they can, despite their poverty and the fact that for a very long time they didn't get their pay, look for a way. They were hostages. We're pulling them out. Once the procedure has been initiated - and it has already been initiated - of the procedure provided for by the law to declare the ship to be abandoned by the shipowner - and this procedure is already running, with the yield from the NAT of three monthly wages - at least they will be able to dismantle and seek another job. This is also a very important intervention. Article 2 regulates an issue that has created a great deal of injustice. Discrimination against civil servants from the Ministry of Shipping is being cured, and this civil servants have had to submit a statement ‘from where they are concerned’, although there is no such provision for civil servants from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Public Order and Civil Protection. Let us clarify, in order to avoid misinterpretation, that the obligation is maintained for civil servants participating in commissions and other positions of responsibility under the existing legislation. Article 3 relates to a classification procedure for for forty-nine port guards. Because too many issues had arisen around the validity of these tenders, as had been done in the past and tormented this issue very much for a long time and for the examinations of the signifiers and for the examinations of the officers, this tender, which had not been published, has been kept. And we said that we need to change the terms so that everyone's participation is absolutely transparent and equitable and never again heard of charges and complaints of devilishness in these competitions. In order to proceed with this tendering procedure and to make it possible to reopen the tender for the classification of forty-nine port guards, which the Port Authority needs, this regulation was necessary. The increase of one year of the age limit is regulated so that those who since last year have had the right to participate and the extension until the end of 2015 of the approval for the recruitment of successful people can actually enter the competition. Article 4 solves formal obstacles to the proper and effective functioning of the bodies of the General Secretariat of the Aegean Islands and Island Policy in technical problems, which were perpetuating. The Central Council for Architecture and the Central Council for Urban Affairs and Disputes of the Aegean cannot meet for a long time and they are pending, stacking cases that cannot be controlled. With this arrangement, the issue is being settled and all these procedures, which have been laid down by the public to citizens in the Aegean region, will be run. Article 5: It is also necessary here to restore the legitimate functioning of the Navigation Agency Council, following a change in the Ministry's establishment plan, which had created an elbow and could not legally be convened by this Navigation Service Council. Now, with the regulation we are doing, this is being arranged very soon, and very soon, the Navigation Agency Council, which takes important decisions and promotes issues relating to ports, will be able to do so. Article 6 ensures the timely supply of fuel from the Port Authority for the Greek Coast Guard and also from the naval stations. The regulation of generalized and collective commissions has been established by the previous government. That's right. But it's a completely inapplicable law, and it's completely impossible to get into a series. We have put all the procedures in place so that the necessary legislative changes can be made and this law can be run. It is right that total supplies, economies of scale, greater rationalization, should be made. However, certain needs are absolutely pressing and necessary. So that is where Article 6 is heading, so that, in the middle of the summer, with the tourist traffic of the ports, with cruise ships and the port House with its increased needs, there can be legal and rapid possibilities to cover the procedures for the supply of fuel. Finally, Article 7 refers to the extension of the contract between the Ministry of Shipping and the ODA - the "Greek Air Industry" - concerning supplies and repairs relating to technical support for the air means of the Port Body. We found this contract. It should have been updated before we took over. We've been in suffocating pressure situations. We risked and fought a road race to save her. We saved it with great efforts and saving money and, indeed, a very significant amount. It is necessary to extend the operation of this contract, its validity until 31 December 2015, in order to ensure support for the instruments of the Port House, which should have been done in time by the previous government and had not been done. For all this, Mr President, because there are a number of issues that need to be corrected by legislative improvements, I also have a signed signature from the co-legislator, a list of legislative improvements which I do not think need to be carried out in more detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u262	I conclude, with Amendment No 222/71, which existed as Article 2 in the amendment to the seven articles - then it was eight - which I mentioned earlier. It was withdrawn as a matter of urgency, because there had to be some corrections. I would like to say at this point that I apologise before this House. The intention of our Ministry was that these amendments were tabled much faster in committee and that you all Members were able to study them and discuss them by the committee. It wasn't possible. The one, which I presented to you shortly before, was submitted on the same day almost or the next, which was the end of the second reading, and the other, for which I am now speaking, was necessarily withdrawn and re-issued today. It concerns a time-consuming issue, since the collapse of the shipowner many years ago, which left seven ships abandoned at the port of Piraeus. There's no point in talking about names. In the process of restoring the rights of seafarers, seafarers have been entitled - and by court decisions and in fact - to seafarers. That's right. There has since been a loose end, which has been justified by the courts. There are full judicial decisions - some pending, some will soon be completed - concerning the rights of workers at the offices of this company, the employees and certain other categories of workers. This is a loose end that has been fully covered by judicial decisions. It has also been attempted in the past, by previous ministers, but also by parties and MPs, to introduce this amendment. It's like the bridge of Arta. It is also an obligation for the Greek Parliament to resolve this issue. All of the amendments in detail make these matters conditional, namely to have been judicially justified and to have all these procedures. Only then will justice be restored and the money due, either through notaries or through judicial bodies or institutions, be re-established and obtained which justice has quantified them anyway. Thank you, and I'm sorry I've had enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Kutsuko, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u266	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u267	I will give Mr Kegeroglu the floor later, with tolerance. I see he's a speaker. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u268	I will not use my dentistry, Mr President. I want what I said from the Step. Because the moments are too critical for our country and our people, I said that we need to take steps to overcome them, so that we do not lead to disaster and bankruptcy. I said that the basis of this overrun must be the truth and responsibility. I observe that several government officials, despite the fact that they see the deadlock, are trying - firstly - to wrongly inform the Greek people and - secondly - to distort the positions of others. I would like to say to Mr Dritsa that the initiatives taken by PASOK have exactly something to do with going over and avoid disaster. That is why Mrs Genema sent a letter, Mr Dritsa, and she also contacted several socialist leaders who participate in the co-operation governments, calling for a summit to be held, which will decide to extend the programme and discuss a new agreement. And I said that this is a realistic proposal, which can be made, contrary to the letter sent by the Prime Minister asking for an extension, which, in order to be done, there are certain conditions. So PASOK is very clear in its initiatives. And at this critical time, because various consultations are under way between the government and our partners, all of you, all of you, all the government officials, are making a contribution, in this direction of preventing the great catastrophe in the Sunday referendum. That's our responsibility right now. You take over yours, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr. Drizzas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u270	I shall just say one sentence, Mr President. Mr Kutsuko, I will not question your own approach to whether you are making some efforts in the nearest five. And now welcome. However, do not ask for submission, as you do within the country, not from this government, but from the Greek people. Take a clear stand against the offer of lenders!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u271	We're talking about co-operation and he wants us to get killed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u272	Take a clear stand against the offer of lenders!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u273	We've been through this before. Minister Dimitris Army has the floor for five minutes. Do you have five minutes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u274	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u275	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much. I would like to close the loopholes, so that I can be consistent with Parliament and the political forces before we begin the debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, we said that at 12 o'clock we will be done and we will have voted. It's been two hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u278	Yes, but it's not the Minister's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Dritsa brought a bill from the Ministry of Shipping. If we had done this, it would have gone crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u280	Leave that, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u281	Amendments - bills. But we're not talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u282	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u283	With Mr Kaklamanis we were informed that at 12 o'clock we will be done. Is it like this or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u284	Yes, Mr. Gregoraco. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, I have said that, before we start the debate on this report, I will have informed you fully of what Parliamentary amendments I accepted, as I did in my first suggestion, and of course all the ministers, as I said. There have been three loose ends that I have told you that before we begin the debate on the subject, I will clarify them. Extremeness first: Socrates Vardakis, Dermitzakis, Karagiannis and others have done many Members of SYRIZA, an amendment to regulate provisions to facilitate disabled people in relation to the exploitation of the passenger for public use. In other words, those authorised by a public passenger, since they have an disability of more than 67%, should be allowed to permanently transfer the seat of the car from the municipality in which the owner of that car is chosen to another municipality, but within the same regional section, provided certain conditions are met. Mr President, it is the amendment with a general number of 195 and a special 46, which was tabled on 26 June by the Members I mentioned and accepted, since I have consulted Mr Spirtzi, who is a co-legislator of the minister responsible and makes it acceptable to him. The second of the three retreats is that I am very pleased to accept an amendment, which I subscribe to with four other ministers, to which my colleague, Mr Dritsa, referred. It is not the first of the six points, which I had already accepted since the morning, but the second, which relates to claims made by workers that the vessels in which the vessels were working or the companies that had the vessels have been designated as "shipwrecks".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u286	What's the number, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, it is the amendment with a general number of 222 and a special number 71. With this ministerial amendment, which is my own, Mr Dritsa, Mr Stathias and Mr Skourletis and Mr Parakaulou, this problem is solved, i.e. the demands of workers who were either on board ships, administrative or financial or other employees in these shipping companies, which were classified as "navya", were made by final judicial decisions and there was an empty law to be satisfied. It was an amendment which many Members of the SYRIZA have persistently brought - I, the President, Mr Metropoulou, Mrs Charalamapidou, Mr Karayannides and others who I do not remember - and Members of the Communist Party of Greece, who, unfortunately, had not been accepted by previous governments. I think it solves a problem and, above all, satisfys the struggle of the workers, who have been constantly told that justice must be done and that this loophole of the law must be covered. I am therefore in this pleasant position to say that this amendment is accepted. It concerns mainly the workers of Mr Agudoudi, but also other shipping companies who had this problem. With regard to the third and last, I am also pleased to accept a joint amendment tabled by the Members of SYRIZA, Stathis Leucakos, Despina Charalapidou, Christos Karagianidis and Ioannis Stathas, with a general number of 223 and a special 72, in which two ministerial decisions that I have had the honour of signing in the last few days with other co-legislators. With one of these, all registered unemployed in the OAED registers are exempted from the payment of customs duties on public public transport. For the purposes of granting such free transfer, Article 6 of Law 3920/2011, Article 10 of Law 2963/2001 and Article 30(2) of Law 304313/2014 shall apply mutatis mutandis. Administrative fines that have been submitted so far to these unemployed for non-payment of a cost, even if the certification procedure and its recovery according to the CED has been initiated. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I think it is very important that the first part of this amendment and the second part is important. The unemployed have a free bill in public transport for an indefinite period. And for the days that the banks will be closed down until Tuesday, we are simply voting in favour of this joint ministerial decision that many ministers, including myself, have made, that in these days those who use public transport are entitled not to pay a tariff. I think it is important to ratify the two ministerial decisions by law. It shows the social sensitivity of the government and shows that, despite extortion, threats and even coercion by creditors due to the non-approval by the Eurogroup of the short extension requested by the Government of the loan contract, the government is sensitive to the problems of the most vulnerable, the weakest strata of our people. You are well aware - I have informed you since yesterday and as the Minister in charge of the schedule - that we are doing our utmost, human, political and economic, so that the pensioners are also in good time to have their pensions. That is why, as far as you know, tomorrow, there are also a thousand bank branches all over Greece. Mr President, I shall end with this: I have heard the entire debate on the bill in principle. Unfortunately, some political forces reiterate that, if the referendum is held and says a resounding, pandemic, overwhelming majority "no" the Greek people, the twelve wounds of Pharaoh will come to Greece or that these wounds of Pharaoh have come because the government has decided to consult the Greek people for the present and future. Hell didn't come to our country Monday, which was the first working day. And despite the fact that the banks were closed up, hundreds of thousands of people across Greece - not only in the Constitution - were not just afraid, not only did they scare, not just said "we will not cry, we will not be afraid", but they also came to demonstrations, demanding that the monumental austerity be stopped, demanding that there be a development plan for the country, demanding that there be a deep deletion of the public debt, to have a present and a future and a home and a people but above all our children. So we'll continue until the last day on Sunday. And our people on Sunday, with their vote, will confirm that the monumental destruction, the policies of austerity and the conversion of our country into "Banana", to colony and to a protectorate of the Troika will become a past. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u288	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, after the speech made by the Minister, the debate on the principle of the draft law is closed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I must also speak to analyse the other amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u290	You hadn't said it before. Mr. Metropoulou, who informed me by handing me over to the Chair, told me that after Mr. Army, we have proceeded with the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Petrakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, the Minister must now speak so that the Agency can also know which amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u294	Okay. I told you Mr. Mitropoulos told me that after Mr. Army there was an agreement to end. If what Mr Mitropoulos said is not the case, the Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u295	I'll say it very quickly, because we've been through it many times. We have tabled with Panagiotis Skourletis the amendment with a general number of 213 and a special 62, which introduces modern terminology with clear content in the context of strengthening unprotected children from the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. You know that. The second amendment is general number 214 and specific number 63. It concerns issues of the Standing Committee on the Protection and Assistance of Crimes, the appointment of a secretary and a substitute for the functioning of the Committee, which has so far not been possible to function, and the rename of the relevant Ministries and legal persons under public law in the Annex to the Rules of Procedure. Regulation (EC) No 233/2003. Thirdly, Amendment No 219, with a special number 68, 'Confidentiality Regulations concerning the operation of the Sicily Foundation for the Adapted Children'. We thought we had to do this for two reasons. One was because there were flaws in the drafting of the previous amendment and the other was because we want to implement sound financial management of state subsidies...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, are these amendments in good time? With all due respect, you have started the vote and interrupted. It's never happened! What happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u297	Didn't we agree for three minutes? There was no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u298	Never can that be done! Anyway, are the amendments in due course?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, the Minister is not entitled to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u300	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. We told the Minister to speak for three minutes. You continue, Mrs. Fotio, and of course finish on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u301	That's Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Because if you see the votes, you'll see...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u302	All right, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u303	Mr Gregorakos, we have distributed the amendments early today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u304	And what does that mean, because you've distributed them? Is the vote ever interrupted? It was a complete conversation and you interrupted!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Gregoraco, excuse me, I'm sitting in my place...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u306	You could take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u307	Madam Minister, you are not addressing Mr. Gregorako. You continue your speech. Continue your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u308	Well, you'll read the essence of the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u309	There's no need to shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u310	...and I don't think there's any problem with the substance. I shall conclude very quickly and I shall come back to the actual debate to analyse them anyway. But you know that they are completely legitimate and urgent and facilitate the functioning of all these prosperous institutions. The next one is 220 with a special number 69, which relates to the payroll of the staff of the legal person governed by public law "National Centre for Social Solidarity", i.e. the EKR. We are correcting an erroneous case, which the President of the European Parliament has signed on the payroll, instead of what is done in all legal entities governed by public law. Finally, Amendment No 221, with a special number of 70, which - as you know and I will develop - is in particular the law on the reorganisation of private property rights. We specialize him because it could not be implemented and because it has great problems. I'll come back as soon as you give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures for the Relief of Welfare, the simplification of the operation of the Disability Certification Centres (CEDs).), the fight against tax evasion and related insurance.' Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u318	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures for the relief of the U.S., simplifying the operation of the Disability Certification Centres (K.S.A.).), the fight against tax evasion and related insurance matters’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are therefore entering the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law, and I propose - and in accordance with a consultation that has taken place - that the articles and amendments be discussed as one section, in accordance with Rules 101 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind the House that the debate and vote on the articles are taken successively in the order in which they have the text of the draft legislation under Rule 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Under Rule 102(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the inclusion in the list of speakers in the debate may be discussed from the beginning of the debate on this Rule until the end of the speech of the fourth in turn. Records made after the end of the speech of the fourth speaker and until the conclusion of the originals of each article shall apply only as a secondary one, which shall be given by the abbreviations referred to in paragraph 3 of this Rule, Rule 102(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The right of second-guessment in the question referred for a preliminary ruling has only been granted by those who so request and if they so request by the end of the phase of second-handness of each article, Rule 102(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The pleas in law referred to in Rule 103 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure are governed by Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind the House that the speaking time of those registered under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure cannot exceed four minutes of the hour for the vocabulary and two minutes of the time for the denology, Rule 103(1) of the Rules of Procedure. In this debate the Ministers and Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall be heard whenever they request the floor for four minutes the first time and for three minutes each time. The Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall also be entitled to speak for four minutes the first time and three minutes for two more, Rule 103(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. If exceptionally the debate takes place according to articles, the speaking time mentioned above is doubled. The House shall decide, on a proposal from the President, to further increase the speaking time in accordance with Rule 103(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal is therefore to be carried out as follows: We will start with the rapporteurs' speeches, special speakers will follow on the articles and amendments. The remaining speakers will then follow from the meeting at the outset - they will have a priority, such as consultation - who will speak at the outset and on the amendments together and follow those who sign up to the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u320	Wait a minute, Mr. Gregoraco. If there is no objection, we should start in this order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u322	What do you want the floor for, Mr. Sunday?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u323	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u324	Here, Mr. Sunday, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u325	Mr Kaklamanis this morning, because he had spoken too many Members in the process this morning, he said that the five more Members who are to speak would be exhausted, and then there will be the suggestions and the speeches on the articles. Besides, anyone can put his card now and talk to the articles. To speak the five remaining MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u326	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u327	Altogether.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u328	Just a minute, Mr. Sunday. Do you want the talks to continue in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u329	It's not exactly like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u330	Wait a minute. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, it was agreed this morning because this was done in many bills and it has been done in the past and, when the list is not exhausted, the remaining Members of Parliament to take their speech on the articles, but also to speak in principle and on the articles together. So we agreed with Mr Kaklamani that at 12 noon, even 12:30, we all agreed in Parliament - to end the bill and the remaining Members of Parliament to lead everyone, but that the other colleagues should also put their cards, if they want a second word, to speak. Perhaps my colleague here will want to be second-guessed. Put her card and talk after us. We will, however, talk together about both sections in principle and on the articles, so that we will not go and put our papers back on. That's what Mr. Sunday said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u332	On the articles and on the principle before the rapporteur can speak on the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u333	After the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u334	All right, after the rapporteur. Now Mr. Zacharias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are at a time when our country and the government are being put on different sides. We are now watching a crescendo of terrorism from domestic and international media, which is intended not to lead the Greek people to the polling of the referendum. Just yesterday we watched the raw blackmail to the Greek people being expelled from the European partners, who took a stand on the Greek referendum, while they were not supposed to. We see a campaign of fear, with common platoon in Greece and abroad, with an aspiring victim of democracy itself by means of a panic 'yes'. But let neither Greeks nor foreign blackmailers be fooled. The Greek people showed yesterday with their shocking presence in the Constitution and in all the squares of the country how it will fight to defend the values of dignity, solidarity and democracy. After all, our people have a long period of struggles, with which they have guaranteed and defended rights, as well as the right to social security, which is negotiating today's bill. So we are talking today about a bill with provisions that relieve people with disabilities, which simplify all the mechanism that governs the operation of disability certification centres for insurance matters regulated by measures beneficially by means of measures to understand social needs. A bill referring to insurance and pension issues and alleviating the insured, in particular to their insurance contributions, insured tens of funds, thousands of those insured by the OAU, the EBRD as well as the funds of the technical press, journalists, workers at the CERTE and the EAAP, newspapers, lottery sellers, a bill concerning the world of work, the world of workers and the employees, which highlights and solves their problems. I would like to say here that even the Economic and Social Committee is particularly keen on the completeness of the explanatory statement of the bill and agrees with its reference and the history it gives to the history of the insurance system. The bill finally restores the pensions of tens of thousands of elderly people slaughtered by the Memorandum. So today we are talking about people's needs and problems. It is the Greek Parliament's key response to the pressures and blackmails and we, the Greek Members, must be proud of this process, which responds directly to the ultimatums of the lenders, ceremonies and appeals for a panic 'yes', which means - as far as social security is concerned - a reduction in the cost of welfare by 0.5% of GDP, a review of allowances, family and disability, means an increase in insurance contributions or a reduction in pensions, it means penalising those who leave work earlier, meaning a zero deficit clause from 1-1-2016 to all subsidiary funds and, above all, a abolition of the EKT. We respond with a bill to alleviate and simplify the provisions governing insurance. We are resolving people's problems and continuing with what the government started, on the road to dealing with poverty, extreme poverty before, with the workers and the insured today. We respond with dignity, with pride to the suffocating pressures and challenges of lenders. The bill comes to restore the injustices and weaknesses of the insurance system. There have been many years, but they have increased in the period of the memorandum, exacerbating the past problems which afflict the citizens. At a time when the government is being pushed not to implement its programme, we are proving in practice that defending the needs of the citizens and culminating in the memorial measures of austerity and the shrinking of the social state are matters of great importance, issues from which we cannot go a single step back. The first 12 articles in the first chapter seek to relieve citizens of the category of disabled persons and to simplify procedures for the reimbursement of invalidity allowances. A great change in the existing procedures brings in the first two articles, establishing the one and only diagnosis of disability for each use. Over the past few years, we have characterized the CEPD, that is, the centres of disability certification, as places of captivity of tens of thousands of disabled people, as institutions of attack on all scientific ethics and human behaviour, but mainly as top bureaucratic regimes, which have been taken over by contractors to cut disabled pensions and allowances, according to the Memorandum Certificates. By simplifying the disability certification scheme for the acquisition of innovative benefits, with the contribution of local government, the draft law goes ahead with an important simplification innovation. In this way, many of our fellow citizens will be relieved, as they will cease to be dragged into a bar of examinations from different services, with conflicting opinions among them many times. The choice, however, does not only exempt disabled people from bureaucracy, but also works for the benefit of the services themselves and the administrative and medical staff, who are charged with additional workloads. Article 3 shall be repealed for uninsured citizens and for those applicants for disability benefit the paradox of EUR 46 for the use of the services of the CSDP. Article 4 adapts the Special Scientific Committee to enable it to carry out its work effectively, by updating and adapting the Single Disability Rate Identification Table, which we know is unfair and how urgent the issue of adjustment is to include the percentages with scientific validity and, in particular, to extend the list of disabled persons who do not need re-examination and drag the disabled each at certification centres. Article 6 responds to the legitimate right of RASA and the Supreme General Confederation of Pensioners of Greece to participate in the Board of Directors. IKA - EBRD, a regulation that we believe ensures that all workers in the IKA are represented and controlled. Article 7 abolishes the inhumane regulation of Mr Samaras' cohabitation on the deprivation of the Tetraplastic - paraplegic allowance, as they are in nursing establishments, and we return to the previous wording for one month. Article 9 shall extend the granting of a disability pension if the CEPR opinion is delayed without the beneficiary having any liability. We are going to the second chapter, with Articles 13 to 19, aimed at combating tax evasion, which, under the responsibility of employers and their allies in the previous governments, was a great wound to the insurance system. The previous governments did not aim to hit the phenomena, as it appears from the zero effect. On the contrary, weakening the control mechanisms was in line with the reduction in pensions and an increase in age limits. We come to intervene effectively and solve the problem. Article 13 therefore provides for the creation of a special body of control by employers for periods such as summer and working places such as tourism enterprises, where there is a intensity of tax evasion and black work, without any control mechanisms being able to intervene effectively. In the third chapter, concerning Articles 14 to the hotel room, there are provisions regulating and treating individual injustices and failures of our insurance system. Article 25 allows conscientious objections to recognise as time of insurance the imprisonment to which they were sentenced as a result of their opposition until 1997. Article 26 contains a regulation which is very essential. It establishes the simple analogue system as a system of elections for pensioners' organisations. And it's - I think - the top demand of the pension movement. In Article 30 we come to heal the memorial achievements of the Samara conflict, cancelling the provisions by which thousands of uninsured elderly people have lost their pension because of the stricter criteria, citizens who are generally in a very difficult financial situation and the payment of the benefit is a condition of survival. Article 37 provides that the release of thousands of OSCE and EBRD members from their deadlock due to their debts to the agencies and is subject to a maximum of fifty thousand - compared with fifteen and twenty thousand who were to date - is possible to offset their debts by their pension in sixty equal monthly instalments. Article 38 seeks to alleviate the large contributions of the EAFRD branches from the large contributions corresponding to their funds and to lead several of them - particularly the young insured, who have no job, who are unable to pay their insurance contributions - even the removal from the fund. Imagine that they're paying to date contributions too many of them without even having incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we say 'yes' to the bill today. We call it a resounding and proud 'no' to the referendum on Sunday. "No", which refers to our history, which incorporates every cell of resistance to the struggle of the people of our country's work, which refers to the future with hope. The vote of the bill is a clear warning to our blackmailers and a promise to the Greek people. The voices that call us not to take a step backwards, the voices of our people override the blackmailing dilemmas that go through the lenders and give us the right to move today into our legislative work. Let the Greek people know that their fight for dignity is a struggle that today significantly wins global respect, a struggle that we will not betray by not handing over our weapons against austerity. A struggle that is an inspiration for movements and peoples across Europe and around the world. A fight of dignity and hope that will find us winners. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u336	Thank you. Let's give the floor to the special speakers. The request is whether they want - which I think they all want and want - to talk to MPs at least in this bill and not to follow the practice of the other many bills, to keep time. It's eight minutes, it's several minutes. Please take this into account. Let's keep the time. And because the angel will want me in eight minutes, eight minutes, and a few minutes, I will be persistent in keeping time. Mr Antony Gregos from the People's Association - Golden Dawn has the floor. Here, Mr Grego, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. And, of course, beyond the year, some people who would be following us today, especially the people who are directly interested in this bill, have little to say about their problems. Of course, the bill is trying to deal with a lot of them. And, of course, the news is running. But in this process these people also had to listen to the positions of the parties. It is because we do not have much time to talk about the articles. In Article 1, which concerns the accession of persons with disabilities to pre-accession programmes, we are voting 'yes'. We say 'yes' to Article 2, which deals with the regulation of issues in the CSCE. We also told the committee what was happening and how these problems had to be tackled. We are also saying 'yes' in Article 3, which deals with the abolition of the infringement for examination in the CSDP of insurers and applicants for disability benefits. We are voting 'yes' in Article 4, on the Special Scientific Committee and on the Singleboard for the Identification of Disability Rates. We are voting 'yes' on Article 5 on the issues of doctors from the Special Health Committee. Some clarifications have been made by the Minister. In Article 6, which concerns representation on board the boards, we are voting 'yes'. In Article 7, we are voting 'yes'. It concerns the abolition of the suspension of the payment of an extra-institutional grievance allowance, quadruple, during the hospitalisation of the beneficiaries. This allowance should, of course, be granted. In Article 8, we are voting 'yes'. It concerns the replacement of the term ‘blindness’. You will tell me that it is a word, but it is very important. In Article 9, we are voting 'yes'. It concerns the extension of a disability pension. Of course, we have said to the committee - and you know it yourself - that creditors will have a clear opposite view. In Article 10, we are voting 'at present'. It concerns the amendment of Article 27 of Law 1902/1990 on subsequent invalidity insurance. In Article 11, which concerns the finalisation of disability pensions, which is very important, we have pointed this out and agreed that all the institutions should vote 'yes'. In Article 12, which deals with the GAAP arrangements on immediate assistance, we are voting 'yes'. For Article 13 - in the second chapter on specific control steps for IKA - we said that there is a need to stop tax evasion. We talked about black work, about uninsured work. We observe what is happening on the islands with students working uninsured and many other workers. It simply needs to be pointed out that the staffing of the scales that will carry out these checks must be worthwhile and, above all, effective. In Article 14, we are voting 'at present'. It shall apply to the extension of the residence ceiling. We know very well that subsecution of services has caused too many problems for all services and of course for these people. In Article 15, we are voting 'at present'. Let's just say the employees' evaluations are done with certain specific procedures. How are evaluations done in public services, in ATTs? Self-evaluate an official, assesses the second assessor, who is the head of staff, and the Director as the third assessor. That's a big deal. In Article 16, we are voting 'yes'. It concerns proportionate application to operators. We must say here that there must be a will to break the tax evasion. There must be real will and will. That's what people want. In Article 17 we are voting 'yes'. It concerns the rights of operators following the application of the arrangements and compliance debtors. Finally, this clearing of debts must be done. In Article 18, we are voting 'yes'. It's the reporting obligation. We know very well that computerization and data intersection in Greece have moved very slowly. And it's not only that, but even now, in 2015, if you go to some public service, you will still see stacked in oldest files - those blue cord - documents in huge bags, many of which are probably very useful and valuable. In Article 19, we are voting 'yes'. It relates to the arrangement for the non-binding of contributions due to operators. In Article 20, we are voting 'present' for the insurance of journalists from the press of sports federations. In Article 21, we are voting 'at present'. It concerns the issues of the Athens type-insurance sector. In Article 22, too, we are voting 'at present'. It is about the time limit for the takeover of those who were re-entered with Law 2190/1994 and we do not know exactly who they are. In Article 23 we are voting 'yes'. It concerns insurance for the former U.S.S. Personnel Retirement Fund. In Article 24, which concerns the insurance of those involved in the programs of the CEDEFOP, we are voting "yes", because these people are doing a very important social work. In Article 25, of course, we are voting 'no'. It is the recognition of the term of office of unconsciousness objectors to bodies of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. We are still calling for the withdrawal of this article. In Article 26 we vote 'yes' for the simple analogue. It's changing the n. Regulation (EEC) No 1264/82. In Article 27, too, we are voting 'yes' on the extension of the deadlines and on the funds of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Very important. In Article 28 we are voting 'yes'. This provision amends the subject-matter of the IKA insurance - EAFRD sellers of the popular lottery. In Article 29 we are voting 'no'. It concerns the insurance of third-country nationals. To make a few comments here, because a Greek worker who enters the unemployment fund is lost, there must be a stimulus for the recruitment of foreign workers, for both workers and employers to be charged and a sum to be paid to the unemployment fund in favour of the Greek unemployed. Because by hiring a foreigner, resources are lost from the insurance funds, to motivate workers in the agricultural sector to hire Greek workers and pay for the insurance funds. Otherwise, foreigners, like foreign workers, are obliged to pay a certain amount in favour of the needs of the public and, in particular, of the Greek unemployed. In Article 30 we vote 'no', because there is a 20-year reduction in the length of stay in Greece, so that a foreigner seeks a pension. In Article 31 we are voting 'at present'. In Rule 32 we are voting 'at present'. It is abolishing the recognition of pre-service time in the field of the welfare of municipal and Community officials. You know very well that the funds are in danger of collapse and the moves must be very careful. We are voting 'yes' on Article 33 on the composition of local administrative committees. We are voting 'yes' on Article 34 on the harmonisation of periods for the adjustment of contributions. In Article 35 we are voting 'no'. In Article 36, we vote 'yes' in the abolition of penalties for individual contribution debtors to the AIFM. There are also the comments made by GATT. In Article 37, we also vote 'yes' for the payment of pensions to members of insurance contributions. Of course, there will also be some who exploit situations. But there are many people who have paid too many years, but because of the memorials, as you know very well, they cannot pay. In Article 38, too, we say 'yes'. In Rule 39 we are voting 'at present'. In Article 40 we are voting 'no'. In Article 41 we are voting 'yes'. In Article 42 we are voting 'no'. In Article 43 we are voting 'no'. In Rule 44, I can say 'no', because you refer to this because of the massive increase in refugees. We are voting for 'yes' in Article 45 on the insurance of employees in the IEK - KEK, freelance workshops, lifelong learning centres, colleges and second-time schools. These are our place on the articles. I have to say that in order to remove the misunderstandings and because you will not see anywhere in any panel representative of the Golden Dawn, because we are excluded from everything you know, you can see the speeches of the Golden Dawn Members and its positions. I read you an announcement from the Golden Dawn press office and it concerns what is happening right now in the country. "In the climate of panic that has been formed, it is not possible to express freely the minds of the people and the government's full responsibility for the prevailing conditions, which did not ensure the normal climate. What matters is that the unity of the Greek people should not be divided by the referendum. No, national division. The Golden Dawn is in favour of referendums on critical national issues." Finally, to say what I said yesterday, the Golden Dawn will remain faithful to the Greeks' national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u338	Thank you. The reason is the special speaker, Mr. Barriots Konstantinos from Potami, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President, I will try to keep him. I would first like to make a political statement in relation to what has been said before, which I consider to be very important for prosecutors in the Chamber, and because in recent days we have been hearing increasingly and increasingly intensely about German gypsies, about the fifth phalanx and on both sides, I would like to believe that it was about linguistic slipping and I will stay there for the first time. I would also like to say that we in the Potami have had and we have a firm political position in favour of Europe, a political stigma that is stable - I will not go further on this. The second thing we believe is that neither in Parliament nor in society are traitors, agents and anything else. I would like to say that my personal view and the view of the party is that we are all Greeks, who are trying with their opinion and from their position to fight for the right and for the future of our country, our country, the way in which everyone understands it. Despite the austerity and controversy, which at such a critical moment may be justified, I think that splitting expressions and such positions should be missing. Furthermore, I can only note that when you talk about the Left, which is a work in large part is the establishment of the democracy we are enjoying today, efforts to frustrate either directly or indirectly are double- weighted and must be avoided. This is as a comment and I will not come back. I hope I don't have to come back. He said - and it is true - that Mr Solulis at the beginning - I will join the minority of Mr Army from now on, even though we disagree politically well - that we have had a very good conversation, especially on the first chapter on the United States, in depth and consensus. We all have sensitivity and we share it. I have no doubt about that. Very briefly, therefore, I would point out that our proposal was - and I hope it will be heard and implemented - that the whole process must be done electronically as soon as possible - I do not want to take any more time - through the IGC and in any way that can be done. We talked about it and I think there is a hearing and that will be done and we will be happy to see it done. I'm continuing on the ones we identify. We pointed three other things out. Firstly, the need to ensure confidentiality in diagnosis for patients over time. I think we've solved it. I think there are two other issues seriously. One is the training of doctors, since where the KEPA process is going badly, it's the medical piece and not the paperwork in fact. The training of doctors, who have not been badly affected by these amendments, is in the old bill as a provision, but is not being implemented. We are also not going to vote for Article 4 because we have pointed out the need to establish a Special Scientific Committee with transparency, with the responsibility of medical associations and professional associations. Unfortunately, it has remained the way - although it is amended, we will be voting'residents' - in which an old staffing was carried out, which is neither transparent nor scientific criteria has, unfortunately, been carried out by the funds and by people who are not involved in the medical process, so there are many and varied problems. In order not to bore myself with the articles, I will say in summary which of the other two chapters we shall not vote on. These are the article, which restores the heavy and unhealthy professions from the window, and this is Article 21, which is relevant to the Athens type-insurance sector. We shall vote on this. We will vote 'no' in the article introducing early pensions. It's Article 23. We oppose early pensions. We have in many ways said that we believe they should be abolished. As a father of three minor children - I told the committee again - and if we want to - to support motherhood and mothers working, there are things that need to be done long before the age of 50 and contributions and facilities. I think it is a completely wrong logic to reward when the difficulty is over. I think we need to discuss calmly again when we can regain our temper on a completely different basis the subject of early maternity pensions. I must point out, as others have pointed out, that this complex of amendments, which are tabled late, too late or at times too late and too late to create problems of substance. We see them with sympathy. Most of them are reasonable. We're trying to process them as best we can. By the end of the meeting we will of course say any reservations we have. In general terms, at the moment, I would like to highlight one, the one Mrs Fotioux has brought about for bankruptcy law. Because we have reservations about whether it is a resolution or not and because it is a very important issue - you were right, it is really very important law, it is bankruptcy law of NGO institutions, etc. - we would ask you to withdraw it and reintroduce it to the debate in committee as a bill, because it is an extremely important piece of legislation - I am not insinuating anything, I am clarifying it - which, even if not scandal smells, can leave or insinuate. I really do not insinuate anything, but there may be such problems. I would therefore suggest that it should be withdrawn, returned to the Committee on Social Affairs as a full piece of legislation, and that it should be discussed in detail as it should be. It didn't happen. He was filed too late. I have no opinion on many things from what I have heard. Honestly, I am saying that these are things to which I have reservations and for reasons of ignorance, if you please, but I think that we cannot legislate in this way, especially for important things. So I would invite you to withdraw it and discuss it again in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u340	Thank you very much Mr Barriotta. Mr Athanasios Vardalis, special speaker of the JRC, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first part of the bill seeks to give the impression that certain measures are being taken to simplify the examination procedures in the CEPR. But the government, in our view, continues the same policy as the previous governments and, of course, is in line with the European Union's strategy. In particular, Article 1(2)(c) provides that a disabled or disabled CSDP will be cut off and will not be referred to it if it does not fulfil the conditions laid down for its inclusion in aid programmes by the municipal authority, although it may have all the necessary documents for the medical opinion. It is clear that here the criteria for rejecting the request are not relevant to the rates or the type of disability, since until now the CSR had it and not the services of the municipality. In our view, other criteria are also introduced, possibly economic, family, etc., on the basis of which, of course, the disabled will be cut off from the outset for one or more benefits that are entitled. In essence, the simplification of the functioning of the CEECs - which is the case - may be done, but this will involve even less handicapped and with less - benefits. Article 2 regulates problems that exist between different insurance funds in respect of the uniform rules for determining the level of invalidity, but at the same time opens the way for the downward integration of benefits. Article 3 refers to the abolition of the payment of the paradox of EUR 46,14 for uninsured persons and those who are applying for temporary invalidity benefits. The first question is why this amount should be paid either directly or indirectly from the funds. The paradox must be abolished for everyone. That is our view. We say that these services must be provided by the State without any direct or indirect payment by those who need to use them. They must be provided by the state units and public servants exploited without additional remuneration. Their participation in committees must be part of their work and be within their working time. In Article 4, it is also right to extend the Special Scientific Committee to other specialist qualifications, but it does not miss us the fact that this committee will operate within the rules and objectives set by the anti-population policy for disabled people. In fact, injustices caused by the lack of specific qualifications may be avoided, but this cannot be tackled, for example, by the introduction of the criterion of functionality, which reduces disability rates, and through them, and even by the benefits, for severely disabled persons. Now, in Article 6, Mr Minister, we have told you and the committee that we agree with the participation of the ESDP. We are, however, vertically opposed to the participation of the GSC. Looks like you're not changing that. That is why we will vote against. It is unacceptable to legalise a federation that is fragmentary and nonexistent. They have not dared to do so either by previous governments. Article 9 shall extend the payment of pensions and allowances if the delay in the examination of the CEPR is not due to the disabled. But it restores the question of compelled disabled people to return the money they have received if they do not receive a pension. This is an unacceptable prediction. So, how will a crippled person live, when they remove him from his already poor income - if he has that too - the specific amounts he has taken up until then from the CSR? So what's the difference when there's a 67% disability and the committee's down to 65%? Does this cripple stop having the financial needs he had before? For Articles 13 to 19 a lot of talk has been made about the establishment of specific scales to combat tax evasion. We have no divination skills, but the constant references made by the current government to combat tax evasion will have almost the same effect as the previous governments. Set up specific control steps and at the same time keep the control mechanisms out of order. What is needed - and you are not going to do so - is the recruitment of permanent, intellectual potential, which will serve the respective services of the institution and operate on a 24-hour basis, both in the area of control of targeted enterprises and in the area of late payment. It is therefore necessary to directly staff and operate all the regional services of the EEAS. There is also no coordinated training, both for young employees and older people, who are forced by lack of staff to operate as auditors. For Article 20 concerning press offices journalists, etc. We have no objections to membership of the Feds. We do not agree, however, on the condition that it enters. That is what we told you in committee. You don't make it easy for new journalists with what you put on. Why does this paragraph exist? We ask you what it serves. If he doesn't get back, we won't vote for the article. We shall vote 'at present' despite the fact that we agree with the substance and logic of the article. In Article 21, first of all, we are positive. But here too, there are some issues. We have proposed improvements, but they have not been accepted. I won't mention them. But it is a key issue and I want it to be heard. In paragraph 2b for the acquisition of the recognition time, twenty-five times the wage of the unskilled worker should be paid instead of the insurance earnings of December 2011, as foreseen. It's obvious why. Because others were wages in 2011 and others today. Article 27 gives an extension until October 2015 to decide on the subsidiary funds, etc., whether to join the EIF or to become professional funds. We believe that these changes are confusing downwards the benefits of those insured for the specific amount of pensions, but also of the one-off ones. That is, here, you continue the same policy as the previous governments. Article 29 gives a little gift to entrepreneurs - they are not simple farmers - by reducing the levy by 3/5. We're vertically opposed to this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In Article 30, we agree with the grant of the pension. Here too, we have made some proposals that were more positive, but you have not accepted them. We believe, however, that paragraph 4, which states that the application of the declaration in question is waived by the legal actions brought during the period which had been cut. With regard to Article 35, it is good that OGA officials acquire this right. However, the level of the levy should be at the lowest individual contribution rather than at the highest. But the essential thing here is another one: the funds for them are constantly being cut off. So what are you doing? You reduce by thousands the beneficiaries and add a few employees. So the question is to increase the allocation for the LEI. In Articles 37 and 38, we tabled amendments which you did not welcome with praise. In general, in Article 38 the free choice of a lower insurance category - and I am ending with this - is not a positive solution, in our view, since it links lower insurance contributions to the reduction in pensions. A positive reduction in insurance contributions is not accompanied by a reduction in pensions. From this perspective, the provisions of this Article do not constitute a reduction, but a time shift. There is therefore no relief. The only solution that can alleviate self-employed scientists is to cancel the glorious increases in contributions imposed by the second memorandum. So please repeal this Memorandum. We will vote against this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, too. Mr. Paul Haikalis, special speaker on behalf of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, the first chapter of the draft law contains Articles 1 to 12, which lay down relief measures for UAA and simplifys the functioning of CEPRs, disability certification centres. Article 1 lays down the procedure for the inclusion in the programmes for the financial assistance of persons with disabilities and the pro-raising procedure. Particular attention is needed to the undertaking to grant the privileged benefits from the municipalities, because according to the current situation in the municipalities, beneficiaries are at risk of being further slowed down and suffering as a result of subsidization of the services to the municipalities. More generally, I would like to point out that there is a great deal of confusion among the citizens about benefits and demand that legislation be simplified and codified. Citizens are afflicted by bureaucracy, subordinated public services, insufficient computerisation to social security bodies, issues that in 2015 are embarrassing for the functioning of the State. In Article 2, notifications to CSR disability rates certification shall now be issued for all legal uses and not as applicable to date. For example, the applicant for invalidity certification must state in advance the reason why the certificate needs to be issued, i.e. whether it is necessary for it to be incorporated into PPC's social invoice or for the IRS or for the probative benefits that it is entitled to. Result of this: endless tails in the CEECs, bureaucracy and great suffering of the disabled and their families. Article 3 deletes the paradox of EUR 46,14 for examination in a CSDP, for uninsured persons, for applicants for privileged disability benefits. Of course it will also apply to the unemployed. Article 4 establishes a specific Scientific Committee responsible for updating and updating the single disability identification table based on new data and new needs and will review the list of irreversible diseases in the direction of its enlargement. I believe that we are finally being given the opportunity to show the social person of the new government and to harmonise our legislation on irreversible illnesses and the determination of disability rates with the respective legislation of the other European countries. Article 5 regulates the issue of specialist doctors for CESR health committees. Article 6 finally establishes the representation of the ESDP and the EGTC at the Board of Directors of the IKA - EAFRD. I also look forward to the next step, Minister, the representation of these federations and their participation in the decision-making bodies in any other area which concerns them. In Article 7, the right to suspend payment of the extra-institutional allowance during the hospitalisation of the beneficiaries is abolished. Article 8 replaces the term 'bliudness' with the most specific term'sightlessness' and I would like to point out that there must also be absolute transparency in the procedures for avoiding infringement, as thousands of such cases have been in the past, such as examples of whole islands or areas that were all certified as blind and entitled to predictive benefits. Article 9, rightly again, extends the granting of a disability pension if the medical crisis is pending by the CEPR and there is no liability for the insured person. Article 11 provides that all other institutions, branches and social security sectors shall apply the conditions laid down by the legislation of the IKA - EAFRD for the finalisation of invalidity pensions. This is another subject that I dealt with in detail last two years. Article 12 regulates the possibility of a third person’s assistance for disabled pensioners and beneficiaries of social tourism. The second chapter of the bill is set out in Article 13 up to Article 19 measures to deal with tax evasion. Escape is, unfortunately, one of the sources of our modern society, which the economic crisis in recent years has caused many consequences for the insurance funds, which are unable to meet their obligations. Article 13 sets up in IKA - EBRD new specific control steps to combat uninsured work, which will start controls on areas and sectors of occupation which periodically see an increase in insecure employment indicators. Article 16 also extends to social security bodies the provision of the public revenue collection code, which is currently only applicable to the declared public debts, which I think is self-evident and I wonder how it has so far not been foreseen. As far as the first paragraph of Article 17 is concerned, we agree that the state must be protected by prudence, and that is why we are in agreement, since we are talking about debts of more than EUR 200,000. But we also need to find a formula here that does not involve micro-enterprises who have tried with nails and teeth to keep their business from the start of the crisis. Significant provisions of the second paragraph which introduce debt offsetting for enterprises with liabilities to the social security institutions, while at the same time they also have claims vis-à-vis those institutions. This is a long-standing problem, which is being tackled essentially, with great breath to businesses. Article 19 protects the debtors of the insurance funds as the indebtedness is established for amounts deposited by them in their accounts by stating that they relate to the payment of the contributions to the insurance fund. In the third chapter of the draft law, from Article 20 to 45, legislation on individual insurance matters is introduced. Article 21 regulates gaps in the insurance matters of the Athens Type Technical Sector, which emerged from the application of the Law. 40752012. It is a good thing, but it needs clarification, which I think will be regulated by some clarificationist circular of the Ministry following the vote on the bill. The following articles regulate other gaps in insurance, 23 for the ESAP, 24 for the CEFD, while Article 25 allows for recognition and takeover of office in objections of conscience. Article 26 shall be amended as follows: 12641982 and the simple proportional electoral system is rightly applied to pensioners' organizations, with the aim of having as wide a representation as possible of all pensioners' organizations. I am passing on to Article 30, with which there is even a progressive commitment from the Independent Greeks, as the conditions for payment of the monthly pension for uninsured over sixty-seven years of age are redefined. In Article 36, penalties for debtors with an individual contribution to the AIFM and the EFF shall be abolished. I consider it very important for a rule of law to recognise the bad situation in which the citizens have arrived and to make every effort to protect them. Article 37 makes a good effort on the part of the Minister to provide solutions to the major problem faced by the members of the OAU and the EFF, particularly those who are in retirement, but are unable to repay their debts. I would like you, Minister, to consider the possibility of increasing the debt threshold from at least EUR 20,000 today to at least EUR 30 000, because you know better than anyone that the increase introduced to EUR 25 000, and despite the increase in monthly instalments from EUR 40, which is valid, in sixty or the retention of the contributions due, does not satisfy and does not cover the thousands of insured persons who are in a pension hostage. Furthermore, I consider it reasonable and suggest that reservations for medical treatment should be disconnected, which was never granted to the debtor by the insurance contributions relating to his future pension entitlement. It is very positive and necessary that Article 38, which allows EAFRD members, as already in force for the OAU, to choose at their request to classify them in one of the two immediately lower categories of their compulsory insurance. Articles 39 and 40 regulate matters of insurance contributions, whereas Articles 42 and 43 stipulate that governors, presidents of social security institutions may receive tax and insurance information for personal use regardless of whether legal persons governed by public law who are in charge have loose ends to public and social security institutions. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that this is a very positive bill, which the Independent Greeks are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr. Ha'kalis. The last of the special speakers, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, on behalf of the PASOK, has the floor for eight minutes and then the list of speakers begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. I want to continue where Mr. Haikalis left off, referring to the insured of the OAU and the EBRD. It is a provision which we are voting on, a provision which we have essentially worked together, because the problem certainly employs many thousands of people insured. In 25,000, as Mr. Haikalis said, it has to be 30,000. You have to do it 30,000. What the servants tell you, what they tell you from the fund has nothing to do with the real needs. 30 is very right. We agree with this proposal. We asked for it too. We also want October to be the end of the year. The other provision - which you put right in order to regulate the issue of what has to be 50 000, despite the fact that it is over five years of the crisis - is very right. But it should be by the end of the year. It can't be until 31 October. Are we going to come back after giving an extension? Since I am referring to the OAU insured, I would like to say that yesterday I warned you, I told you to find and ask you to pay back what you gave the Treasury to pay the IMF to have the Ministry pay for the pensions. I talked about the 450 million missing and not found. Finally, this amount is EUR 272 million. For the first time in history, OSH pensioners will have half the pension. And I say this, so that people can understand that even if banks were open, tomorrow there would be no pension in their accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u346	What are you talking about? It's a technical problem that will be overtaken tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u347	You're welcome, Minister. Don't interrupt. You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u348	So you should ask the Bank of Greece to return what you have borrowed at the difficult time you borrowed it to pay the IMF instalment. You have to do this. He's not a dedicator at the time he's due. My location is clear. Of course, it is easy for closed banks because people will not ask for money tomorrow. But this has nothing to do with their right to pension. And you must avoid this happening, which I believe will not happen, because the OGA has kept a pension available. Since I am referring to the pensions of the OGF, to the farmers, I would like to say that we have heard here from Mr Petrakos many theories that the others are asking for this. If we put on what you and the foreigners are asking, the agricultural sector must be closed. If only we have what you are asking for, what is included in the Tsipra proposal to impose on farmers, not just will it close, but it will in no case be possible in the new growing season to make the decision to grow. I do not mean what you have put into the proposal to implement, but also what you are already doing. For the first time in Greece, subsidies are taxed! This was introduced by the left-wing government, which is well in favour of taxation, so that the state can have a social policy. But the taxation must be done where it is to be done. It therefore considered that subsidies should be taxed and legislated this for the first time. The cover was that for the first year there will be a tax-free 12,000 euros. We know that. You put your leg on, and then you go in and salt everything there is. So let us not compare proposals. We do not care what the toughest proposal is on the other hand. What we're interested in is that on the farmers' back, Mr. Petrakos and his extrapolation are playing billiards. Because the biggest for the farmer is to maintain his income and to increase his ability to produce and export his products. Let us see, does this government ensure with its tactics and policy the possibility of strengthening agricultural production? I should like to refer to three simple topics: No, of course, because I have to tell you that since today, exports of peaches and apricots from northern Greece have stopped and exporters are shouting out agony. This cannot continue, while exports are at the forefront of entering barriers, to have not been predicted in relation to movement in means of transport, but also in relation to facilitating the corresponding banking transactions they need. You rushed into the Ministry of Finance and take steps to help exporters in these difficult times. And leave the cockfighting and leave the theories and all the other things that you have made us here today. And I say it for those who say that they are cut off - those who say they are cut - for the agricultural sector. The second example. If the view of the Government of SYRIZA and ANEL and the Golden Dawn on 'no' prevails and we move out of the Eurozone, this has not been stopped. And it's a simple reason. All those who have been supporters, lenders, or whatever you want to tell them, international loan sharks or I don't know what else, obviously they will be rushing to commit funds - in the hands of third parties we say it here - in order to ensure what they have given as loans. The NRP and agricultural subsidies are in the front line, they are first targets. So what must be avoided at all costs is a disturbance in relation to the European Union. And that can only be done by relaunching the agreement and the negotiations, and even before it is too late. Because the reopening of negotiations from Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and so on, as the government says it will do with its rahat, obviously and will be from another level even more unfavourable. You know very well that in December - good or bad - the cost of any measures taken would be about 1 billion. Some people say it would be 2 billion. The bill was up at 8 billion, 8.5 billion against our partners. From Tuesday, Wednesday, and then where will the bill have gone? What position will Greece negotiate without the protection of the ELA without having a programme without being disqualified? Which position? So I come to say that what matters isn't until Sunday night, but it's from Monday morning onwards. This is particularly important for the future. And those who are taking their seats today - and they are doing well - should read them very well, realize them and propose what they should do to the Greek people. So we are proposing clearly, and until it is done - if we do - the process and the choice associated with the referendum, we have taken initiatives. We've taken and the protest is that they're hiding. And since they are supportive of the government, they should be made clear by the ministers, not only to muddle, hide and use methods by ministers - which I do not want to describe now - just to deprive the other parties. The initiative that we have taken - as small as we are in Greece - is worthy of value, is aimed at the partners in the second large Eurogroup and at the European Parliament - the second group at the European Parliament level, Mr President, because you show me the New Democracy which is second - but also at the level of governments, so that an initiative can be taken for a summit, for a relaunch of conciliation and negotiation. And so we see that something can be done. We see that both sides of government today had two readings. Mr Pappas said about the continuation of the negotiations. She had a different position, if you notice her in detail. I hope that what is evident today, an effort to reach agreement, will be possible in order to avoid the worst. In any case, we say that we must in every way not just ensure the euro. What's the euro? The euro is not a currency, it is a whole system, it is Europe, it is the euro area, it is the European Union. You have, you have no euro, in the matter of participation in the European Union you are affected by the existence of the euro area and the euro. We therefore want a stable path within the Eurozone by reopening the negotiations today, with the establishment of a national negotiating team. The government has not yet answered us why it does not do so, because it does not go along with this initiative, so that everyone can contribute in this way. So we are today in a very critical period and we should all be careful. There is one issue with the legislative regulation, which is about the movement of the unemployed and all over the five days, of the four days. Look, there are no two categories unemployed. You should have predicted the movement of the unemployed throughout Greece, not only in Athens. Thessaloniki, why is it out?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u349	We've predicted for that too. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u350	Thessaloniki why? Hercule. Why? Patra for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u351	Volos why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u352	Mr Kegeroglu, to talk to the MPs too, please complete. Complete on the bill. The rest of the Members must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u353	I'll be done. Now I just got into the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u354	I'm just telling you that Members should also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u355	So I'm telling you, I'm now entering the bill. I tell you that this provision needs to be extended for all of Greece. There's no one inside the device. She says Mrs. Fotio, except for a microphone, that it's all Greece inside. I take the interruption to tell us what it's like in there, because I don't see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u356	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u357	Mrs. Fotio will speak and answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u358	You don't want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u359	Mrs. Fotio will answer. Mr Kegeroglu concludes and Mrs Fotou will speak. Please complete, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u360	Okay. Wait a minute. From the presidents before you, Mr. and Mr. Dear Vice-President, I did not ask for the floor on a number of issues, since I was told to tell them in my report. In this sense, I have a few things more to say than the time at my disposal typically. But I would like to close by again stressing that we cannot tell OSCE and other organisations that you will be doing this service for free - and we welcome them - and that we do not have the decision to grant them at the same time so that workers can be paid at the end of the month, that suppliers can be paid at the end of the month and that oil and gas can be purchased. Is that possible? Do you know that they will not be able to function if there is no provision for aid from the State budget? I'm talking about public transport. I'm on my way to the bill. We said 'yes' in principle and in most articles. What did you say, Mrs. Fire?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u361	I didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u362	Oh, sorry, because you're talking loud, I thought it was in relation to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u363	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u364	In most articles we say 'yes'. One or two articles are, in which we say 'the present'. And one or two articles need a little improvement, but I don't know if it's gonna happen. Like, for example, Minister, in Article 26, in which you say very well that an adjustment will be made to the election system of L.1264, provision should be made for the letter vote. It cannot be a pensioner union that has members from all over Greece to force them to come to Athens to vote. The Athenian state is not in your understanding of what I know - I mean personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Kegeroglu, because there's a provision at n.1264, there's no problem. It's gonna be a letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u366	Please, let Mr. Kegeroglu finish and you'll take the floor. We must finally speak to the MPs, we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u367	A statement must be made with an open microphone, because this must be written, Mr President. It has a value of an article that Mr. Army says. It's worth an article. Of course, if you were to find a solution with representation in the IKA, no such controversy would be better. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will be expressed in concrete terms. There are many amendments necessary, but there are also incomprehensible with the draft legislative amendments, which are too late. It has amendments which have nothing to do with the sense of urgency, so that they can come here late, and it also has amendments that are necessary and which we shall vote on. In some, which could have improved if they had come to the committee, as you said at the outset, but which cannot be improved at the last minute, we will have to say 'at present', because we are not against the issue they regulate. We hope that it will be settled another time. And you will now allow me the time that Mr Mitropoulos has promised me to answer Mr Theochari. Mr. Theocharis made a slip today. It made a challenge. I have to remind him of a few things to think about and come and be placed here in the House again. Because he said so, he'd have to withdraw them, and if not, repack them, say what he meant. Migration, whether they like it or not, is the best period of modern history in our country. If you compare it with any period - the junta, the period of apostasy, the Julians' period, the period of illegitimateness and the violence of 1961, the period of the National Alert, the civil war, the status of 4 August, with abnormal periods of the country - tell me what remains, despite some brilliant periods in our history - why have I not been mentioned until 1932 - and, of course, post-population? We will not be told here by Mr Theocharis, who is also the result of post-multiplatification - that Mr Theocharis is the result of post-multi-population - that, apart from the negative aspects that we all know and have to fight to change them and correct things, there has been not much progress for the people. As far as I am concerned - and I am closing - I am obliged to defend the period from 1981 to 1989 and to say that it has been through the expression of the generation of the National Resistance, the '1-1-4', the anti-fighting struggle, a great change and reform, the incorporation of democracy and a great redistribution of wealth and, in fact, the reason was given to the creative forces of the country to produce and give a good result that we have seen in our country. The second period of PASOK has had an amazing success in joining the hard core of the European Union, what Mr Theocharis is saying today is defending, joining the European Union and the euro area. I would like to say that all this positive contribution we have made may have been accompanied by negative aspects, but that does not give anyone the right - which is a product, if you like, of the last period that we have tried to deal with the great crisis that the place has experienced - to erase with monocolon at this time. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the time and being good for next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. I want us to agree, because there are two pressures. Mr. Kegeroglu spoke eighteen minutes and forty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, I would like a minute of the speech on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u370	No, Thanasis, we can't! Let the MPs speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u371	Wait a minute. Now, we normally have to start the list of Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u372	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Petrakos needs a minute, Mrs. Fotio wants to talk a little later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u374	Excuse me, but I'll talk to you in my turn, as set.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u375	A little later. Mrs. Valavani can wait a little later? As far as I can see, Mrs Valavani now wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u376	Wait. Let the MPs finally speak. You have a responsibility, too, as a Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u377	I would like to refer to the amendments, Mr President, because I have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u378	I would ask the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, I would also like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u380	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u381	Mr. President, please! I request the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u382	I agree, Mr. Gregoraco. I say we find a solution. Mr. Gregoraco, Mr. Balaura, just a minute, so we can find a solution. And Mr. Kegeroglu spoke eighteen and a half minutes! So please, we're trying to reach agreement. Procedural matters are, they are nothing ideological. Mrs. Fotou, Mrs. Valavani, please take the floor a little later. Okay? For the amendments, please refer a little later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u383	I told you I'd talk in my turn, whenever it is, after the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u384	So this is all about me, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Petrakos, do you think it is necessary to speak because your name has been mentioned?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u386	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u387	How long, Mr. Petrako?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u388	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u389	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u390	Please, Mr President, because I have referred to what I have said, I would like to remind Mr Kegeroglu that this government has cut the tax advance for farmers in half this year, made tax-free on agricultural subsidies and a full exemption for tax compensation. As far as measures are concerned, the proposal of the PASOK to vote 'yes' tomorrow will bring to farmers everything I have said in my position and while respecting the time, I do not want to repeat it. It will bring about a great disaster. So Mr. Petrakos is not lying. Mr. Kegeroglu doesn't say things right and he's not honest with what this government has done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u391	We're starting the list of speakers. It's, if I'm not mistaken, eleven speakers. If the eight-minute time is respected, we are talking about an hour and a half to finish the debate. I'm telling you to have the whole plan in your mind. Of course, the ministers will also intervene, but I'm counting on a couple of hours. First, then, speaking for eight minutes is PASOK MP Mr Gregorakos. Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the agreements made by the Bureau with the Members. I would ask, of course, because, despite our contradictions, there are also human relations here, which are not being abolished. Mr President, I do not know if you do not accept it - because at some point the Bureau has to decide what is expressed or whether it is expressed individually or at some point has a single attitude to them - but with Mr Kaklamani this morning we had an agreement to end the bill at 12.30 hours in the first place. They're here, and the others are here. Sunday, Manius, etc. That's not what happened. So, as you can see, from now on we are not going to have any agreement with the Bureau, because it is probably the Bureau that is incomprehensible with the Members. We must not function at will and whenever it suits us. Secondly, when you went up, the bill was passed at first, and you said that we were moving forward in the debate on the amendments. You've read it already. You said 'Let's go for the debate and for the amendments. It has been the bad thing with the ministers and the amendments since this morning. Honestly, I understand that Greece is not having a good time, but there is also this mess with the amendments. The president doesn't see any House today? Does he not see what is happening with the amendments and what did the ministers bring? A whole bill Mr. Dritsa brought. He brought three amendments with twenty-four articles. But Mr. Petrakos did not speak. I remember Mr Petrakos and Mr Lafazani who objected - and they were right - and we had complied as much as we could. And Mrs Valvaani came back a moment ago, old MP too. At last, then, we must respect Members. I've been here since the morning talking about six hours. Look out, we're dealing with our jobs. We have a schedule, too. We're a little party, just like you used to be. Once it is done, it says, the debate here - another issue that we learned last night - will have a Conference of Presidents. Yes, Mr President, but at the same time at 7 p.m. we also have a TEC. Yes, Mr. President. Yeah. It can't be done. It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u393	I share what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u394	Wait, because yes, but I'm finally six hours here, because some people don't follow the Rules of Procedure. Don't think we're one of those miserable ladies who don't want anything when we say about the Rules of Procedure of the House. You know, a little bit from here, a little bit from there, we're stretching from here, we're stretching from there, there's nothing going on. Let's move a little further. Now I'm gonna take my dentistry too. I just got a "e-mail", which told me there was a mobility with Juncker. We don't know if there's any new Yunker proposition or anything. I wish there was! But this proposal, Juncker, would like to know if it exists. So my European friend said to me that 'it is really beyond any imagination that after so many years of deep crisis, the country, instead of saying 'near now', is about to fall deeper into it. It is true, too, that I did not think we would ever dare call into question the country's European path." Ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of throwing the government down. I want this government to rule, each one in his own way and his own truth. I would, however, like this government to govern and I have no intention of humiliating this government, because if this government is humiliated, the Greek people will also be humiliated. I don't have any-- but no-- that kind of mood. We have told you several times since this morning that the PASOK with our President - I do not know what had happened to Mr Dritsas - has done the letters and we want a consensual procedure if, at the last minute, there is a dislocation from this situation that is currently going on in and out of Greece. But in every house no one has to win. The Greeks will lose, the country will lose, we will all lose, whatever the result of Sunday. The results will, in fact, be very different from those calculated. The 'yes' was said by the Prime Minister last night. It gave a solution to 'yes'. The "no"? What does "no" mean on Monday? There's no need for a splitting site. The place now needs consensus, as much as we can. So I think we should drop the tones and stop the whole process, that is to say, take our eyes out between us, because there are also people who look or make fun. Now, I saw on a site what Turkey wants to give tomorrow's loan to Greece! You understand what rights we've given everyone. Anyway, I would like to say that there is still time for an agreement, there is time for a national negotiation, there is time to rethink what we are doing these days, from all of us in Parliament. I shall turn to Mr. Petrakos for the farm, who saw that they had a dispute with Vassilis Kegeroglou. I come from a rural family and have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u395	Likewise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u396	Let me have a minute. You're good. It's your right and your honor. And you're doing well. Farmers cannot today be taxed more than in previous years. So the agricultural issue needs to be placed on a basis that will be discussed at a higher level. So, as we say, the question of education is a national issue, so has the question of farmers today. You know that farmers after the Occupation were the main development machine in the country and sincerely took us out of the deadlock at the time, because the Greek population, farmers, produced it. So we have to see that if we do not look at the agricultural issue, if we go and pull on from the farmers and get 13% and - as you know - this whole process from the first euro, it is probably in a few years' time that it is unbearable for farmers, because most farmers are not holders of large lots. I therefore believe that we should see a 5% of the mixed, not books to farmers and the OGA to remain autonomous, which was something very important. For we had passed a provision on PASOK which said that those who have done nothing in their lives will give them the pension of the OGA. Are we guaranteeing them today? Oh, no. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I therefore believe that the agricultural issue should really be a big debate among us, because in a few years' time the whole agricultural land has been promised. I'm on my way. This bill was a bill, which we had prepared many times with Vassilis Kegeroglou and other ministers. Unfortunately, however, in the previous government, when we had made a programme agreement, we have never been able to make any proposals that we had. That is why we supported the bill, which is a good bill, and it has very good proposals and the debate that has taken place has been constructive. We will, however, go into the matter that concerns us all, and I insist that the country's national objective is Europe, it is the country's European orientation. This orientation must never, frankly, become a process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I only read you today the letter of Chryssogonos - and I will take one minute later - which he sent to the Prime Minister and which reads: 'The break with the lenders is an impossible option and if it is attempted, the end will be the country to return to the Memorandum of Integration under worse conditions, such as the prisoner who attempts to escape and after failing, ends up in isolation of the prison', 'we have to fight in the existing European and international contexts'. With dignity to do it. Nobody said to lose our dignity. We didn't say we'd humiliate this government. We do not want humiliated governments, we want decent, honest and proud Greek citizens. If there are other solutions on Monday, I believe that Europe...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u397	Finish, Mr. Gregoraco, so the others can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u398	I'm done. The Greek people must not be ruptured. The Greek people must not be divided more. Because we are most interested in us - as is of interest to you and the Prime Minister - national pride. We don't give it to anyone. No one is proud of us, as I would like to be much more proud of you, but don't question it to me. I therefore believe that there should be an agreement at the last minute, an open path between Greece and the European Union, because we need to find it and we should not go forth to the referendum on Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. The reason for eight minutes is SYRIZA MEP Mr. Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity comes at a historic moment for the place where the Greek people are called after the Government's initiative to exercise their sovereign right to participate in the first forty years in the referendum, in response to the proposal - a ultimatum of the creditors who give the graceful shot at the wounded by the five years of memoranda of Greek society, but also by giving an answer to Mr. Yunker's provocative intervention calling on the Greek people and not much to overturn the Greek Government. In fact, this bill has its special symbolism at this point in time, for two reasons: first, it shows once again the government's previous draft laws, such as the one to deal with the humanitarian crisis and regulate the hundreds of doses, etc., the clear orientation of this government of social salvation to defend the most vulnerable social groups and sections which have been ruthlessly struck by the memoranda, in which people with disabilities, of course, have a dominant position. The second reason why this bill is symbolic is because, with its three chapters, it answers to each of the three, the large number of disgraceful proposals made by the creditors who have been tabled and is also the question of the referendum. Instead of a cut in pre-tax benefits proposed by the lenders, there are facilitators in this bill measures to facilitate the bureaucracy faced by disabled people to receive the benefits. There are also measures for the financial relief of disabled people. Instead of measures to deregulation and dismantle the insurance offered by creditors, there are measures in this bill to restore injustices to various categories of insured persons. Finally, instead of a pension cut proposed by creditors as a measure - a medicine allegedly intended for the viability of insurance, there are measures in this bill to tackle tax evasion as one of the causes of the insurance problem. Obviously, there are many more to be done, Mr Presidents of the Ministry responsible, towards restoring all the injustices which have been done for disabled people and also about the sustainability of the insurance company, and of course with the dominance of unemployment. After all, what the government has done so far in this five-month period for the dignity of the people has done without a euro from the lenders who, by exploiting its sincere attitude, have gone to refugee and ultimatum the Greek signature for the continuation of the destructive monuments of austerity. But they did not understand that SYRIZA is part of this people and serves the people. As a result of the government's respect for the sovereignty of the people, it is also the right with the referendum that the Greek people themselves support their dignity with a bronze 'no' next Sunday. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the referendum on 5 July - because too much has been heard here about the opposite - has a very, very, very specific question, which is not at all unclear: 'Yes' or 'no' to the societal proposal - an ultimatum of creditors. Of course, a lot has been said and a lot will be said about the questions and interpretations and after the referendum and the problems of the referendum. So I would like to put my own point of view on that. Here today there is a historical risk that has sometimes been relentlessly put into the history of this place. This is the defence of democracy, of popular sovereignty, of the right of this people to decide without blackmail on their future, on the country's course as a non-colonial debt. This risk, therefore, is once again the freedom, the liberation of the country and the people from the bonds of an unsustainable, unsustainable, burdensome and illegal debt. And as many times as in the history of the country the risk was freedom the Greek people knew very well not only to say the great "no", but also to conquer their freedom with hard struggles. Because freedom always has its price, but it has no equivalent. We trust this proud people today that they will honour their history and say again another great "no" on Sunday next, opening the way for the liberalisation of the country from the debt bonds, from the memoranda of austerity, from the constant surveillance, opening up the path of productive reconstruction, the path of preparation, justice, so that future generations will also have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr. Sunday. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the fact that Minister Fotou is asking for the floor, we must give her the floor. So Mrs Fotou has the floor. Mrs Valavani will then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u402	I'm asking for the floor. Mrs. Fotio's not asking for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u403	I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to give it the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u404	But, Mr President, Mrs Fotou is not asking for the floor. He's barely gonna take him? I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u405	Mrs. Fotio doesn't want to? Why did they tell me from the services that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u406	I don't want to, Mr. President. After the six MPs I want to talk to you. Why do you keep coming back?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u407	Because they told me from the services that you consulted and asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u408	Let the six Members speak first and I will speak. He's already said it twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u409	All right, Mrs. Fotio, there's been a mistake. That's how they informed me that you asked for the floor. What's the problem? Is that terrible? Mrs Valavani has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u410	I have informed you personally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u411	Here you go, Mrs. Valavani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I have tabled two amendments in the short term, which are really urgent. The first amendment under number 186/38, tabled on 25-06-2015, is complementary to the Ministerial Decision translated and the deadline for the submission of legal persons’ tax declarations from 30 June 2015 on 20 July 2015 and natural persons from 30 June 2015 on 27 July 2015. Let me say that each amendment has an article. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall be supplemented in this respect by the Ministerial Decision, specifying and regulating the payment of the tax to remain on the dates provided for in the Income Tax Code, i.e. for natural persons in three equal monthly instalments payable up to 31 July 2015, until 30 September 2015 and up to 30 November 2015 respectively. There is no need to regulate legal persons, because the provision of the code is up to eight instalments, but it must end in 2015, so in fact it becomes six, ending in December 2015. In paragraph 2 of the E9 Amendment, for which there was no authorisation and therefore no Ministerial Decision could be made, it shall be postponed for any amendments that have been made, without any side-effects, on 27 July 2015, i.e. the date on which the income tax on natural persons expired. Paragraph 3 also stipulates that the deadline set by the Dispute Settlement Directorate, the so-called General Secretariat of Public Revenue, for the adoption of decisions on appeals which are particularly complex, is four months from the end of the three months. It is also foreseen that the extension of this deadline also applies to actions for which the date of examination has not expired until the date on which the present case is lodged in Parliament. That is to say, it includes those who have been in the process and not just those who have been submitted since tomorrow. In the other amendment, the 204/54 submitted on 26-6/2015, which is also an article, under the provision of paragraph 1, the deadline set out in Articles 1 and 15 of the Act is extended. In other words, it is the responsibility of the Member States to ensure that the provisions of Regulation No 4321/2015, that is to say, the regulation of up to a hundred doses - as has been made known - are applied for under the arrangement up to a hundred doses. That period shall be extended from the end of the previous Friday 26th of the month until 15 July 2015. In other words, it is extended for a few days. I must also say that this is for two reasons. I say this because here in Parliament I have repeatedly said that there would be no further extension of the deadline and that it would expire on 30 June. I have to tell you that a key reason why I have said this is that there has been such a condition with regard to lenders in Brussels, so that there can be an extension of the one and only month that has been given and which, in fact, for anyone who knows how to read draft law, was provided for in the draft law itself, from 27 May to 26 June. I have to appear, like some others, as unreliable for two reasons. One reason for this is that in the last two days, last Thursday and Friday, the call centre was constantly falling - it was impossible to use it - of the thousands, literally, literally, phone calls from the world all 24 hours ago that he was asking for an agony extension. I mean, he was taking a social problem, where you can't close your eyes, because if you start shutting them down in such a blink, I don't know where else you're going to keep shutting them down. I must also say that there has been enormous pressure from small and medium-sized companies and others in the control process throughout the country's audit centres and taxes, namely the tax mechanism of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, to complete the audit to enable them to join the regulation on 30 June or after 30 June. That was impossible. Not now, by 15 July, it can be done. At least let a few hundred companies come in, the ones that were at the end of the check. I say again that it is not solved by this extension of deadline. There are thousands throughout Greece who are trying and pushing to get in. I would also like to say that in paragraph 2, a matter is dealt with, a gap that we discovered existed. If one manages to infiltrate - because the application is made electronically - and the way in which one has been assured of his or her debts is not lawful, that is to say, if there are any problems and yet it is not exactly in line with the regulations and yet it is able to enter into regulation, there was a legislative gap, that is to say, it was very difficult to get rid of them. Paragraph 2 provides that tax administration, on its own responsibility, may lead to the dismissal of a person with certain tax debts that have been introduced in a non-legislative manner, which is neither tolerable nor tax law against all other taxpayers. Mr President, I should like to say this because of the days. The submission and incorporation of the hundreds of doses continue normally. It's set. The DUs are currently operating like banks. Whether cash or any card can normally be credited independently of height, it is enough that there is money, of course, to pay advances, and that also applies to those who have entered the previous months and had to pay their instalment to date. The measures, of course, have been taken so that there is no burden or miscarriage precisely because of the situation these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Minister. I think it was her intervention and her intervention to take account of these amendments into account. I am addressing this House. There is a request from the Member, Mr Balaura. Because he has a very serious personal problem, if possible, to precede. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u414	There's no objection. Mr Balaura, you have the floor, but please keep in mind the time of eight minutes. Then there's Mr. Manius and Mr. Matthaopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I didn't intend to say the first words I'm going to say, but it caused me to say that I have a personal reason. I have no personal reason. We have two meetings, one at four o'clock and one at five here in Parliament, committees, etc. There is one issue here, as we have entered into this matter. The House is not a parliament. It's not a parliament for the MPs. It is a Parliament for the Ministers, it is a Parliament for the Parliamentary Representatives and it is a Parliament for the leaders of the parties. Last time we met endless hours - at 3.10 a.m. the end of the procedure - and a Member of Parliament had not spoken. Please communicate to the Bureau that at least on the basis of the speeches I have made with my colleagues - and now that I am speaking, their heads are being welcomed - we are in an extremist state and I think we will take action in response to the Presidency as a whole. We cannot continue this situation any more. We all have to understand it in here. I'm getting to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u416	Just a minute, Mr Balaura. I think I tried today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u417	I'm talking in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u418	In other words, I do not think that Members should speak and keep the time. This, however, must be a case and concern for all the actors in Parliament and for the process. Go on, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u419	Colleagues, I have noticed that all serious bills create artificial conflicts. In one of these, which is very important, the New Democracy has departed. At the same time, those who do not leave create artificial situations, which are strongly terrorist. Today, because we have at the moment too, we see what is happening by the leaders, by the elite of the European Union and the Eurozone, and we see the continuation of domestic factors - another elite from here - that is the media, they are politicians and, unfortunately, they are almost all parties with little, such as the JRC, which are in another direction. I have seen the rabies, the lies, the mud and the populism of the representative of the Potamios, Mr Theocharis today. She said moms don't find milk for their kids. He said the housewives can't find the lentils. We left the great spaghetti now, which each time emerges and said today about lentils. He also said - others have said so, first and foremost Mr Samaras and his fellow Members - that our plan is outside Europe, not even Eurozone nor anything else. She's out of Europe. That is, transfer Greece somewhere in Asia, somewhere in Africa, somewhere in New Zealand, or possibly in the United States. In fact, Mr. Theocharis, too, for evidence of this populism and of the funny attempt at terrorism, has come to say that he knows that people of the General Accountancy Office have settled in Maximos and are building the drachma plans. I think that the word 'lady' has been added here and I say it with all the meaning of the word. They have also reached the point of criticising post-collection - during which the biggest conquests were in employment, social, human rights and workers' conquests - regardless of the course of its first period, during which the two major parties led and created this situation. In other words, it is not the bad post-population which is something that refers to dark times, which is essentially showing the dictatorship, whether directly or indirectly. Let us see, then, the two major parties that have been leading this time, just after about a decade - 12 years and have brought us to this humanitarian and economic crisis. I have to point out today that the PASOK Members did not show this attitude that they were showing at other meetings just before. Obviously, this slight movement may be due to the change of the new leadership and, obviously, there may also be a strong political element, namely the decapitulation of this party, which has historical legacy, by the tightening up of the New Democracy. So polarization is a technique. We have started left-hand parentheses and also, coordination is done together with foreign centres. However, those who show these scenarios do not see in front of them - from outside and outside - that there is social polarization. There is no other kind of polarization in our country. There is social polarization that is now evident. On the one hand, they are the employees, the unemployed, the young unemployed, the broken-up microprofessionals, and on the other hand, they are the ones who have even won from the crisis. We also have to see it as a government and as a party and as a whole and all the parties and understand it, because we understand it much more, since we have such reports and ideological guidelines. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] For example, they tell us that the proposal of the government, which has actually been submitted to the institutions, has enough elements of austerity - I cannot chew my words - which has also created to us Members, but also to the SYRIZA officials. However, those who make this strong criticism forget that in our own effort, what we did not like was that, in order to find convergence with the institutions, two inalienable conditions were added. One term was debt, namely to talk about debt and its prospect of impairment, and also to provide liquidity. But what does the Opposition say? Gentlemen of counterpopulation, we have two proposals. One of the so-called institutions and the other of SYRIZA. Tell us: Do you prefer institutions or SYRIZA? Do you have anything different to shape either one sentence or another? You're finally suggesting something. Because the great problem of the SYRIZA Government - and I will say what will happen to SYRIZA, because there is no serious opposition - is that there is no opposition. He exercises absolute and full hegemony and is only affected by himself. For example - and it was said here by an MEP - the case of Chrysanogonos. We must not chew our words here and say that SYRIZA's hegemony is affected by itself, as is the case with Chrysanos. But this terrorism, Mr President, does not pass and it is clear that it does not go to the Greek people. Before Monday, because we have the guts to fight against gods and demons found in both Greece and Europe and possibly elsewhere, there may be developments. I will make a comment because I have dealt with and worked at the central bank of Greece, namely the Bank of Greece. The Statute of the central banks has a basic clause. One example is with the commanders appointed and no government can move them. It is independent of the European Central Bank, as is the central banks. At the same time, within the statute, the principles of the construction of central banks, what is there? There is the first concern that is to protect the financial system of all euro area countries, but also individual states. We see here that we have actually been driven to a credit suffocation for so long and we have come to impose a restriction on capital movements because of this suffocation. I note this in order to tell the people about the referendum. The Samara government did not have a programme, it had finished the programme and provided liquidity - and indeed important - to the government. Today Draghi and the European Central Bank that was enslaved with the wildest beasts says that 'after you are not on a programme, I do not even give you ELA'. So we say 'no' to this elite of Europe, 'yes' to the Europe of peoples, to the Europe of creation, to the Europe of equality, to the Europe of solidarity. To stop the games that we're going for other continents, for other directions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Nikos Manius has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, many are ignoring the value of symbolism in politics. We had three repetitive scenes of opposition from the New Democracy and its departure. From all history I remember from the House, but also from the primary trade unions, to come twice, three times, to say that they are absent from one process, that I see this first time in my life. But why? It was not just the 20:00 note that some colleagues have said. It was precisely because this bill, which will become law with a large majority of the Greek Parliament, puts the mark, the mark of diversity, the class concept that we have in favour of the poor, the weak and the disabled in relation to the concept of New Democracy. We should talk a lot of hours about it. Of course, it gradually yields some memorial laws. There are one or two points which are technically and can be regulated with some circulars and joint ministerial decisions between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour. We'll talk about it, because time is short to get into these technical details. The phenomenon that we are observing has certain characteristics. We have a part of the Opposition that calls us into national conciliation and is forsaken for it, ignoring our country's historical data. When there was a real need - and it was not a few times - to have national understanding and understanding of the people, the Left took the lead in these circumstances. It's not just EAM, it's then, in the '60s period. Left movements have always been aimed at defending the interests of the people. Another element is that the enticing preachers of the supposed unity are the worst, the users of the greatest lies and accusations against the Left - and not only - at the same time that they should think and feel when they come to this Step, how they talk about others, when they have been expelled or failed by their government or as suspects. If we look at the latest statements on the transparency of Mr Sourla, the New Democracy official, we will understand what I mean. And the greatest convenience is ignorance and lying. We have - it says - increased unemployment. "ERGANI" announced in April - the last time I saw the data - twenty thousand and more intakes than was the corresponding April of last year with the greatest ease. The complaint of post-population, which has been well criticised by some colleagues, regardless of what has happened at the time, this criticism - which is not only the fault of Mr Theocharis who has done it, because a lot has been heard against post-mortemism in recent memorandum years - hides within it a attraction, a charm towards authoritarianism. And if you look at this again at the level of symbolic, the way that is expressed is a way of authoritarian. Don't underestimate and not underestimate this evidence. Of course, Mr. Theocharis is young. He doesn't know how much blood it cost to overthrow the junta and the Transmigration. The greatest thing is not just that the junta fell. It's just that there's been a I don't know if he understands the term. We left a royal regime and went to a democratic regime. Many people tell us that we do not want the European Union and are attacking us on it. Look at something, each one talking in this seat has his personal history, his personal dignity. When my party in which I first went to parliament, the Interior Council, fought for a pro-European direction, there were the well-known slogans from PASOK and other forces, the 'EEC and NATO the same union'. But that's over. Our motto, which was a slogan that had hope within it for a change in a positive direction, does not lose its value. Now, because Europe has become the climax of the financial system, a development of capitalism that was not a given one, there have been many historical events. It's not the time to report it. One of these was the collapse of the Soviet block. So now the fight we are fighting is not to leave the European Union. The fight we give and it is very important and I would like us to understand it - I believe that the great majority of the Greek people have understood it - is to overthrow the completion of this course. I wondered many times about the criticisms made to us by those who say that the Prime Minister's proposal is not good. I'd say she wasn't good. First of all, they're not the same. Difference was not the EUR 200 or the EUR 300 million. Because, if we get there, we will say that the European Union has gone crazy and for the EUR 300 or 400 million difference of a programme the European economy is being jeopardised and not just. Our difference is in the way we approach these EUR 9 billion. Nor did I hear anyone tell us that the famous mail Hardouvelis, which was for 1 billion euros, was until 30 June, and the rest of it was the package proposed by the Eurozone. And the rulers knew it. That's why they're out of here, and they're out of here, and we're not. The people didn't kick them out. It's another resemblance to the fall of the dictatorship. If the people had thrown it and hadn't run, we'd be better now. I would just like to make one comment on the position of the JRC not on today's law, but on the general situation. [[At this point, the ending bell of the Member is ringing.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. I don't have to say how much I appreciate the story of the JRC. However, this attitude of identifying SYRIZA with the Memorandum Governments, this distance from the referendum this morning, brings me to mind a slogan that I once heard: "Varkiza, Mesuda, two cigarettes". I am now saying: 'Forty-six abstentions, a referendum on 5 July, two cigarettes'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Artemis Matthaopoulos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u423	I take the floor with the corresponding emotional charge resulting from the symbolism of today's day, as today on 30-6-2014, following a process of parody at the Ice Bay investigation offices, completely illegally, following from political orders, I was driven to the Korydalou Prisons, where I met the Chief of the Third Political Force today in the country, other MPs and party officials, who were also unconstitutionally and illegally detained with the charge of joining a criminal organisation. What the crimes that I committed, both myself and the other Members of the party, are, I believe, manifested throughout the debate on today's bill, where the Golden Dawn remains the only stable antimony force on the basis of, of course, the debate that took place on the forthcoming referendum on 5 July. Both of these relate to each other in a way that I shall then analyse. However, symbolism is twofold, because those who put us in prison, Samaras, Athanasios, Voridis, Dendias, when they were calling the outlawed circuits to close innocent people in prison are absent today from this Chamber because they want to abstain from the procedure because they were offended by the way in which the Bureau wanted to discuss this bill. The Golden Dawn, however, is here and says things by their name. And this is to the credit of all those who did not go back, despite the persecutions which, unfortunately, continue unrelentingly. Let me come to the subject of discussion around the referendum. It is a matter that concerns all Greeks. It's about Golden Dawn. It concerns the voters of all parties, because there is deliberately or inconvenience. Confusing the question of the referendum, confusing what each party proposes, confusing even what will be the next day, no matter what result, on Sunday 5 July. Starting from the latter, from the result, I would like to clarify the two camps, each of which gives its own proposal. One thing has to do with the co-government parties, which say that the people should vote on a 'no' on 5 October, because they should reject the proposal of creditors. That's right. On the other hand, there are the other parties of the memorandum, as I will call it, arch, which say that the people should vote 'yes', because the dilemma is not acceptable to the lenders' proposal or not, but whether Greece will remain in the Eurozone and the European Union. I'm going to ask a question to the second people who are talking about 'yes', because the referendum was dealt with with the Capital Controls, with the banking panic. And I'll ask the missing ones. The question will be to make use of it as well. For two, three whole years we have heard an argument in this House that the recapitalisation of banks from the inferiority of the Greek people, these billions of euros paid by the Greeks in their pocket, would ensure the smooth operation of the banking system and that there is no chance of facing sad things like today, where deceived Greek citizens, regardless of party origin or identity, are waiting in line to get 60 euros from the banking machines. The second question concerns the convergence, which proposes a proud 'no' to the Greek people, because it says that it should reject the proposal of creditors. I said earlier that this view is correct and we are in association with it. But you are not telling the Greek people what the second alternative is. We should reject the proposal from the Juncker Memorandum of EUR 11 billion, but not accept the Tsipras Memorandum, which will bear the seal on the first left of EUR 8 billion, because what will happen on the 6th of the month is what? Theoretically, if the people vote 'no', we will go to an agreement, to an acceptance of the government's proposal, which is not very different from the proposal of creditors. Some numbers, some data, which we believe will not have any practical effect, are being modified, because you yourself have been saying that you cannot impose a policy of development, by imposing austerity measures. So what are you responding to Samara's austerity measures? With a left memo? With a Memorandum of Tsipras of EUR 8 billion? With a memorandum of intent, with measures that will literally knee the Greek economy further? So the referendum is good. But here I would like to open a parentheses because you are all talking about the people's right to express themselves freely through a referendum, that this is how popular sovereignty is expressed, that the Greek people seal the function of democracy with their freedom of expression. Firstly, how free is that expression? Because during the five days that will follow until Sunday on the 5th of the month, we see that the conditions are not normal. And that is why it is not the Greek people, nor the media, nor the domestic interests. It is the coup d'état, which has not done everything in its power to limit the influence of these interests, which it also denounces, without always giving any specific reason. Secondly, it is not just the issue of the abnormal conditions through which the Greek people are called upon to vote. This is about something else: If you respect popular sovereignty, if you believe in the Greek people's opinion, if you consider it mature enough to decide on all matters, you should first ask his opinion on all major bills, not economic, national importance, such as the bill on the yielding of citizenship to illegal immigrants, such as other bills relating to the extension of the programme, the memorandum and so on, but something else that no one commented on. Five months later, did you find yourself asking the Greek people if they are in agreement with your proposal or not? Because since 26 January you have not taken a corresponding initiative and you have to go to Europe and say that the negotiations will continue if and if the Greek people give an appropriate answer. And on the 26th of the month, one day after the fresh people's mandate, where 35% -36% of Greeks gave you a clear antimonetary message, to come and say: "Greek people, give me your own decision, so that I can go to Europe on your own mark and say, here, Mr. Yunker, Mr. Symble, Mrs. Merkel, that is my country's decision, that's what I want to defend here with any legislative work and that's what you have to respect." Instead, you spent five months in a negotiation, which was not hard at all. The images speak for themselves: Yonker wore the tie in Tsipras, Renzi hugged the Prime Minister smiling and various others, which show that others were agreed in advance and that others are going through the Greek people to eat the fairy tale of tough negotiation, which led to today's downfall, where we still don't know what the contents of the agreements you have made, what is the next day. The only thing is for sure - and I conclude with this, Mr President, because I always want to speak in the time that is given - that the Greek people will be called upon to pay from their posture, with their blood, a material policy of a new memorandum, the memorandum which the Tsipras Government will introduce. I wish we were disgusted by developments. I wish you honour your dignity, which you share through such statements, as if the result were different, the government would resign. But you've shown different samples of writing and we're suspicious of what's coming next. The Golden Dawn on all of this, therefore, clearly says that, whatever the Greek people's decision, he should not be blackmailed by the developments, not blackmailed by the centres of power that really govern our country, say a proud 'no'. Because what you are discussing, anyway, will not have to do with whether the measures will be 8 billion or 11 billion, it will have to do with the continuation of the Memorandum of Understanding, which has at its core the assignment of national sovereignty and the placing of the country under English law, which has paid with its blood for five years the policies followed by your predecessors, and as such you have denounced them. Prove, then, by deeds and not by words that you are different. But the Greek people know that with such semimeters, with such panic moves you do not gain impressions. And if you win them, it will be very short the time when the Greek people will understand that in the end there is only a genuine anti-popular power, the Golden Dawn. And that's why he's gonna reward her when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Stavros Gregory of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is coming for discussion today in plenary at one of the most important historic times - not to mention the most important - of the post-government period for our country. It comes for discussion when, for the first time, a Greek government, the SYRIZA Government and the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, lifted up their stature after five stone memorial years to tell for the first time the great "no" to the ultimatum with the exterior out of every logical, irrational and exterminational demands for our people of lenders, who operate with methods of blackmailers of the underworld and a role of fathers of particular interests. Proof, the ultimatum with the proposals - measures which they gave to the government, which, in addition to the well-known and permanent repetitive measures for cutting wages, pensions, social benefits, expropriation of public property, attempt to dismantle the areas on which the country's productive reconstruction can be based. If anyone reads what they want for agriculture, tourism and the Greek pharmaceutical industry, it will really creep out. There are, unfortunately, political forces which, in response to responsibility, which in reality is nothing but an expression of submissiveness and a service of other interests, are asking for the measures of lenders to be voted on in the Sunday's referendum. Not to mention the position of the River, which goes a step further and into an extreme expression of credentials to creditors, it has come to ask the government to sign anything proposed by the lenders and they will support it. As a result of the extortionist ritual of lenders, the government's historic decision to resort to the highest democratic right for the people to decide for themselves by means of a referendum. The dilemma in this top political process is not the falsification of the representatives of the Troika's creditors here 'yes' or 'yes' in Europe', 'yes', 'yes' or 'yes'. The question is clear: Or should the Greek people accept the continuation of the Memorandum of Extermination, Equilibrium and Selling in what is left or with a bronze "no" to lenders to open new paths for national and social restoration and dignity. His answer on Sunday evening to the European blackmailers and their local lips will be overwhelming. In the course of history, the Greeks' answer to extortion and ultimatum is known worldwide. And that was always 'no'. The bill to be discussed contains three chapters with forty-six articles. The first chapter includes relief measures for disabled persons and simplification of the operation of Disability Certification Centres. The second chapter includes measures to deal with tax evasion and the third Chapter on legislation on individual insurance issues. The first chapter shall contain 12 articles. The legislation included are important interventions in the direction of resolving both general issues and issues relating to the Disability Certification Centres, which have so far categorised, both disabled and related, through a number of bureaucratic issues and substance issues. The experience gained by the manner in which CEPD operates in recent years has highlighted not only a great suffering for disabled people as a result of psycho-corruption processes but also a financial burden. This is precisely the purpose of the legislation, namely the financial relief and the facilitation of the lives of people with disabilities. In particular, Article 1 shall simplify the procedure by submitting initial applications to the social services of the municipalities and not to the CEPR, which shall be fully managed by each application. Article 2 shall simplify the procedure and decisions of the CSDP and shall apply for each use. Article 3 removes the paradox of EUR 46,14 for the use of CSR services by uninsured citizens. This is even a small financial relief for disabled people, but at the same time also a tangible example of the social sensitivity of the Government of Social Rescue and its decisions. The same applies to disabled persons, however, since the paradox is paid by their insurer. Article 4 provides for a special scientific committee to be set up to establish a single list for the determination of disability rates and, indeed, for the selection of persons with the necessary scientific and professional qualifications to make it up. Emphasis is placed on the involvement of a wide range of medical skills. Article 6 lays down the further democratisation of the Board of Directors of the IKA - EBRD with the participation of a representative of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, as well as a representative of the Supreme General Confederation of Pensioners of Greece. This increases the number of members of the Board from fifteen to seventeen. Article 7 restores an unjust ministerial decision and at the same time gives economic breath to disabled persons by abolishing the suspension of the payment of an extra-institutional grievance allowance, quadruple during the hospitalisation of the beneficiaries. Article 9 restores an unjust arrangement so that in the event of the termination of the pension entitlement for invalidity and, if its case is pending in the CEPR, the insured person may extend the pension entitlement for a period of six months with full medical coverage. Article 12 provides that beneficiaries of an agricultural land account who receive an increase in their pension amount due to an absolute disability or other illness, as specified in Article, may, in so far as families do not have a agricultural land account, be accompanied by a third party to whom a relevant document is issued. Another sign of social sensitivity on the part of the state to disabled people. The second chapter contains legislation to deal with tax evasion. Article 13 establishes, by decision of the Commander of the IKA - EDF, specific control steps with responsibility for the whole country, which will start controls in areas and sectors where increased insecure work and avoidance rates are observed. Articles 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 regulate individual matters and details in the context of dealing with tax evasion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The third chapter includes rules on individual insurance matters, Articles 20 to 46. Here I will dwell on three articles, which are once again reflected in social justice and the civil protection of the weak ones that characterize our Government. Article 30 restores a social injustice imposed by the Memorandum Government of Samaras - Venizelos with the suspension of the pension from 1-1-2013 to thirty thousand ultra-aged Greeks and homosexuals, as part of the implementation of the most extreme and anti-language neoliberal policy by the present political organs of creditors with proverbial analgesic analgesia and contempt for the citizen and the well-known high-political, cultural, social and aesthetic flammies of the type "the memorandum is happiness". The pension is therefore granted or re-administered from 1-10-2015 to over sixty-seven years old Greeks and expatriates, under the conditions clearly mentioned in the article. It is thus restored an extreme and inhuman social injustice against an elderly section living in conditions of extreme poverty and economic impoverishment. The Members of the Officerial Representation rather than even at the last moment humbly apologise to the victims of their politicians, with pretexts they left the debate in the committee responsible. I understand that they have other more serious issues to deal with, such as, for example, expressing their sympathy to creditors when the government and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras personally, give a titanic struggle to salvage what remains of their destructive five-year pass. Article 37(2) permits the payment of a pension to insurance debtors, provided that their debt does not exceed EUR 25 000. It's another arrangement with a positive social person. Article 38 allows all EBRD self-employed - engineers, doctors, lawyers - to choose up to three lower classes of insurance in order to relieve them from the very high burdens of young scientists but also older people who, due to high unemployment and the scientific disciplines, could not respond to their insurance contributions. In conclusion, I call on you all to vote in favour of the bill because it restores injustices and gives a solution to problems that afflict sensitive social groups. I would also like to see the New Democracy Party present and vote in favour of the bill, even though she left the committee responsible, as a minimum recognition of the apologies to the victims of her policies. Once again, however, he strived and retired. Obviously, her rapporteur would not be able to hear, among other things, the reminder by the Minister of the Minister of the decision to slaughter the quadruple and paraplegic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. George Ursouzidis, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u427	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion concerns the maintenance of pensions and aids for those people in need of solidarity and care from a state that has been ruthlessly and irresponsible for too many years and, of course, in recent years, under the regime of the IMF, assembling, attempted to impose the famous budgetary discipline, waging precisely those who had an absolute need for protection and support. The famous evaluation committees were instructed to cut off all aids to people who are unable, because of health problems or special skills, to have access to work or even to self-service. So he judged the IMF, so did the people who chose to apply their choices and - I stress - those who chose to become their voluntary servants. That had to be undeniably changed. I would now like to link the content of the lenders' proposal to a rule of law and solidarity. This proposal, of course, has an important role to play. And I will only mention some of these measures which are envisaged. First of all, there is no possibility of a debt being viable. So the continued attempt to create a more social state is doomed. It proposes that 900 million, 0.5% of GDP, should be cut from social welfare and benefits. It proposes the imposition of a 100% tax on companies and free traders, including farmers. So the money that would fall into the real economy in order to resurrect, take another way. So there are no resources. It also proposes abolishing tax rebates for farmers, which is the main pillar of our economy. That means less revenue for the state. He suggests increasing health care reservations from 4% to 6%. They also propose to increase the interest rate applicable to the debt arrangement. They consider it to be a retrievable source of revenue if this government changes. They propose that we move on to the privatisation of IPTO, that is to say, in the dark the citizens who have regained the opportunity to have power in their homes. Finally, it proposes not to impose an extraordinary contribution of 12% on profits of over 500,000 euros generated by businesses. Here's a group of civilians who tonight might be in Syntagma Square. All of this is a faithful implementation and continuation of the wrong choice of lenders who have destroyed the country's economy. Therefore, they could not be accepted. The vicious cycle of recession would further exacerbate the situation. It was a matter of time before the crisis that we experienced in previous years with a ferro-silicon throughout the country. The unscrupulous truth is that the Greeks wanted and wished to remain in the European Union and in the euro area. The question is: At all costs? Clearly, no. Without oxygen, no one lives, dies. After five years of cruel austerity, with a wrong recipe, reported by the former strong man of the IMF Stros - Khan, who admitted his mistakes during the time the first Greek rescue program was discussed, the Greek people are desperately looking for a way out. Firstly, relaxation of the measures so that the economy can be resurrected. Secondly, sustainable regulation of the real debt - I stress the word'real' - so that it can be repaid. Is there any possibility that these two objectives will be possible and consistently effective for a creative way out of the crisis, a choice that is completely beneficial to all the peoples of Europe? In my opinion, it is sufficient for the lenders to also recognise that they are responsible for their responsibilities. What brought us here? I'm not even going to talk about it. The Greeks know this very well, as long as they remember the last five years. Impossible for a recovery, so a state of care? As unrealistic as this objective seems under the present circumstances, a sincere leader who is not willing to sell his country in exchange for, anyway, on-line power and personal strength, this leader is capable of carrying out this goal. Two words about the referendum. Perhaps this is the first time that I have been offended by the substance of the matter, but it has to be done, because citizens expect to hear some truths. Tsipras is the leader who, with all honesty, states that the election commitment, despite the laborious efforts to achieve growth in terms of debt sustainability in the euro area, has not been achieved. On the contrary, the institutions in their proposal insist on fundamental measures which, not only are not a solution, but are deepening the crisis. So we ask the Greek people in a completely democratic way to reject the proposal of the institutions. The false dilemma "the acceptance of the proposal or non-euro" does not exist, since it is known that for the vast majority of Greek citizens this is not a question of this kind, nor has it ever been raised. Furthermore, it is worth noting that it is an impatient choice for European politicians to follow this false dilemma, because a strong not Sunday will be embarrassed. The Eurosceptics will be fruited. And this will be irrational, distortable and ally unfair to the democratic peoples of Europe. The dignity of the Greeks towards the extortion and the injustice will send out a message of hope and become the catalyst for the developments that are coming anyway inevitably. No means go back to the negotiating table. I was very surprised to see Mr. Shoeble saying this today, disguising all his other partners. The gross phony 'or yes or outside the euro', 'or yes or outside the European Union', does not exist. Greece and all the states of the European Union will live in a democratic Europe, because this is how it is designed by the founders of Antenauer, Suman, Alcede de Gasbury, and this is how it will be. Finally, I would like to say that the real challenge of the referendum is the continuation of the country's European perspective in a country of sovereign peoples and not in a country of lenders and borrowers. My speech is dedicated to my friend Yannis who is now giving his own battle for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Smias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our days are historic. Developments that have been under way will determine the future of our country and our people for decades. But it has brought things up so that the life that the issue of democracy reinstates from the country that was born in Europe on the agenda. In these historic days, then, there are two great ideas, two visions that each of us is called upon to take a clear position. In fact, on the one hand, we have a clear policy in favour of the rich. This policy is unreasonable for the results of the elections. He wants to perpetuate their sovereignty over any price, by continuing a policy that prolongs and deepens the crisis that dissolves the social fabric and gradually makes our country a cheap productive area to create conditions of over-profit for large businesses. So the dilemma that is being put objectively is: do we want such a development or do we want a policy outside the suffocating framework of budgetary discipline for workers, whose results have been felt in our minds over the last five years of memorial barbarism? The answer is clear and we are sure that the people next Sunday will shout against all voices inside and outside the border that they want to dream of a better tomorrow, outside the narrow shoes of neoliberalism. He'll call a big 'no'. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 January we received a clear mandate from the Greek people: to negotiate with perseverance and determination and with faith in the forces of this country, against those who are undermining the sovereignty and wealth of our country. Together, however, we also received another mandate: Re-establish democracy and rediscover its meaning. Because democracy is for the people themselves to decide what is in their interest. So such an act is the referendum. And what doesn't sound these days! That there was a coup, that we were irresponsible, that we were driving the country on the rocks. And we heard them from those who destroyed the country, who set up the client state of the scandals, the crackdown on public money and the overcompensation of our country, who turned the House into a translation centre by voting ready provisions of the troika technocrats, who did not dare to lift up their stature, when the response and negotiation possibilities were numerous of today's, who condemned us with their help to defend the interests of their country and with their willingness to serve the interests of lenders. After five years of trespassing the institutions and democracy, old and late officials of the system come today to despise the Greek people. Because it is an essential act of insult to try to squeeze a people who are given the floor to speak and openly declare their desire. It's an insult to man, to the citizen, to democracy. So we do not accept lessons of democracy from them. The Republic is to say that you will bring to Parliament a bill on the fight against the humanitarian crisis, and it already applies today. It is to say that you will bring back to the jobs of those who have been illegally fired, and today they will be in their place. It's like saying you're gonna open the public TV and ERT today broadcasts. You're saying you're bringing the hundred doses, and today you're running the same program. Democracy is to do all this while you are being suffocated by suffocating pressures for the opposite. And this bill we are debating today is another step towards democracy, because that is what we are responding to the real needs of the citizens, without asking for the approval of a bank and no technocrat. What's wrong with this bill, which makes it so important? I am going to dwell on four points which I consider to be of paramount importance. First of all, it combats bureaucracy and thus speeds up the service of people with disabilities. We all know very well that bureaucracy in too many cases prevents the enjoyment of the rights of our fellow citizens, by overwhelming them by this whole process until they reach the CPS. So in the same direction, when we talk to people with disabilities, we must always think that it is generally a double-sensitive group, because, apart from disability itself, these people are usually under great economic pressure. It is very important, therefore, that the insecure use of CSR services is abolished for the most deprived and insecure. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, also corrects a great injustice, as it reappoints more than twenty thousand ultra-aged beneficiaries the OGA pension cut in 2012 by the Samara and Venizelos government. We are giving back to these people who have reached the limits of total impoverishment, their lives and their dignity. It is very natural, of course, that from the opposition, those who have learned well in colleges and the creditors' seminars to protest about the financial costs involved in restoring these injustices, even though this seems to be a small one. There is, of course, a provision that will bring fruit to a multiple level. It is no other than the creation of specific scales of control, which will take action against tax evasion and black work. Because the scourge of insurance, above all, is the undeclared work that has taken place in our country now scary. So I think we are dealing with a bill that actually bears the seal of a left-wing government. Ladies and gentlemen, listening yesterday to the statements of the so-called institutions or partners or lenders, I felt that their voice came from far away from the depths of the ancient Greek tragedy with the voice of Creus, a voice that symbolizes the most arrogant, authoritarian and antidemocratic has ever been heard. 'Start the present'. He's going to say take everything the way it is, never change anything, say yes to everything. We all know the end of Cretan. He stayed in history like the winner who lost everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Eleni Alonitou, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u431	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a very important bill today. Only to listen to the beginning of his title understands how important he is. Measures to alleviate the handicapped. And I note that in this Chamber this New Democracy is absent. He's up and gone. Uh, of course, could she be present? How to stay in a bill that relieves all those who the same as the Memorial Policy sent her to Kaidas? How to stay in a bill that relieves all these people who she sent with her policy to the margin? All those who needed most of the protection? It is no wonder, therefore, that today all those who support the yes-handed measures condemning the people to impoverish the Sunday referendum also support the further reduction of welfare costs, half the GDP, as reflected in the institutional proposal. One billion euros less about family allowances and disability benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece in the years of the memoranda, the most vulnerable groups were affected, that is, those who had the least reserves, the fewest possibilities and the least power of resistance. The disabled have suffered the worst treatment of all. The problem of people with disabilities has been insufficient in our country beforehand. However, the years of the memorials were found to be the easiest goal. In practice, it has often been the practice of the administrative declaring the disabled to healthy, thus abolishing as a miracle, not the disease, but the obligation to help the state. Is, then, such a difficult thing nowadays, the objective medical evidence of disability? No, of course not. But it's very easy for the administrative boom. It's easy to circumvent the law. The wicked conspiracy that ends up in general unresponsibleness, the local captains and the frustrated arbitrariness. Thus, it is particularly important to provide for Article 2 of the draft, that the disclosures of the results of the certification of an invalidity rate issued for each legitimate use by the Disability Certification Centre, CSR, are mandatory and binding on public entities and services. This very correct wording reminds me of that famous request by Emmanuel Rode about the need to adopt a law on the application of the laws. It sounds funny and it makes laughter until you're alive in the irrationality of ignoring the law from the administration with full political coverage. I would also like to dwell on Article 3, which provides for the self-evident, that insured and uninsured citizens who request an early disability allowance can be considered by the Disability Certification Centre without paying insane. How do we do it? If you ask for benefits because you are indebted, insecure and disabled, to ask you to pay money that you do not have to accept to consider your request is just a way to say "drink!" This is not how we treat vulnerable social groups. But, ladies and gentlemen, will you tell me who will pay for all this? A necessary condition for the proper functioning of the insurance system is effective control of tax evasion. It is characteristic of how public administration is exercised in Greece that often when a government wants to weaken a right without becoming unpleasant by abolishing it, it simply makes the eyes wrong in its violation. The general attack on the insurance system in recent years goes hand in hand with the weakening of controls on the application of insurance legislation. It is characteristic that during the period of crisis undeclared, uninsured and sometimes even unpaid work has reaped. In fact, here we are dealing with theft, and we have to deal with it. Frequent, targeted and unwarranted controls are the main means of addressing this situation. Thus, Article 13 of the draft law provides for the establishment of specific scales of control of the IKA - EKA, which will carry out on-the-spot checks to address the phenomenon of uninsured work. Articles 14 and 15 strengthen the IKA Special Insurance Office, while Article 16 closes 'loopholes' that currently protect the debtors of IKA from seizures outside the hour. You see, all hours are offered to steal the public, so all hours must be available to fight this theft. Finally, I consider Article 19 of the draft law to be particularly important, providing that deposits in bank accounts of debtors intended for payment to social security institutions are inappropriate from anyone. The only way to put order on our insurance system is to give him the absolute priority he deserves. It's not a squirrel, the insurance system to let money flow from here and there. The implementation of the control arrangements will require a lot of work from the relevant IKA services, but today's bill gives these services the legal means to do so critically. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of all the articles of the bill "Measure for the relief of the U.S., the simplification of the operation of the Disability Certification Centres (KEPA), the fight against tax evasion and related insurance" and I call on the Greek people on Sunday in the referendum to respond with a bronze 'no' to the barbaric policy that creditors want to continue to impose on Greece, by allowing the Greek Government to negotiate a sustainable agreement - a solution to the Greek people, but also by showing the way of democracy on the slippery path of authoritarian Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the fatigue and last hour - I think I am the last speaker - but allow me to make an intervention, a position in today's bill, in particular, on issues relating to technical production and the insurance of the disciplines of scientists. I think it is worth saying that the regulations and policies, which have been implemented in Greece in recent years, have had a clear aim: not to improve our country's economy, not to improve public accountancy and debt, not to restore - if you want - the calm and functioning and equality of some services, the only objective of the policies that have been implemented, was the attack and depreciation of the Greek economy and of Greek production. And this attack was extended to the layers of technical scientists, as well as to the whole of the scientists who are insured in the EBRD. That was, moreover, the aim of the memorandum and remains the objective, unfortunately, of a very large proportion of creditors and partners. After all, it is the aim of neoliberal policy for all the countries in the region, of devaluing employment, devaluing the workforce, filling unskilled workers and - without in any way affecting the noble sector of the wardrobes - becoming Europe's wardrobes. But this desecration of scientists has nothing to do with people. It's about the essence of the economy. It is about the fact that the big countries and, of course, the great interests of the large countries wanted to fruit themselves with all the added value and knowledge and science. This is why they aimed at demolition of the entire secondary sector of the economy and all the scientific sectors. Because a country which does not have its own science, a country which does not have its own secondary and primary production, is a country of enslavement. And that's exactly what they wanted to do. And we must admit that Greece's downwards are not only due to the troika, it is not just to the creditors' mechanisms. To a very large extent, it is also due to New Democracy and the PASOK for the economy. Because it is their idea that there is no need, for example, for safe construction in Greece. It is their idea that all legal cases should be blocked and delayed. It is their idea that we should not have a public health system and only serve - if you like - by bags or by the private sector. And that's because they don't want a competitive economy. And that's why they don't want to keep the scientists in Greece. They want practically us, the Greek people, pawns. They want us to be devalued, to be able to slid into an economy 'Casino' in an EL DORADO economy, the best minds of this economy, this society, unfortunately are abroad. And what makes me very much impression is that even the new proposals, even the Schuble script, the Dieselbloom script, has nothing to say about the secondary sector, he has nothing to say about the quality of production, he has nothing to say about environmental issues. Why are the proposals and the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, lacking in the issues of innovation and research? Because they just want to put the market down and don't care about the economy. They care to reduce a people, but also to reduce a proposal, a rule of national sovereignty and dignity. It makes sense. For them, it makes sense to invest the good public university in Greek minds and implement policies that will drive these minds out abroad. It is for the countries of Western Europe that it is for free. But we have to understand that it is not just the economic situation that creates the problem of leaving the scientists, it is also the very bad insurance conditions that we have in our country - and that is what I want to talk about. Let me refer to the engineering sector, which we have served for many years and with our colleague Ursuzides from trade unions, but also with many other colleagues. In the mechanical engineering sector, ladies and gentlemen, no professional can cover insurance contributions. A unemployed engineer, who has no job in the construction sector, a free trader, cannot pay contributions of EUR 400-500 a month. But that's what they did to put out the best minds abroad. Of course, we must admit that in addition to the introduction of these contributions, unacceptable presidents, in breach of decisions by collective bodies, have retroactively applied contributions over three years which were not provided for by the decisions of the collective bodies or the insurance funds, hiding behind decisions by the Ministers of the New Democracy and by legislation. The result of this policy was that in 2010 four thousand three hundred engineers were registered in the Chamber of Technical Chamber and eight hundred forty for many reasons - up to a pension - and in 2014 the four thousand three hundred had become one thousand eight hundred. Yet they graduated these children, but they were never written in the Chamber. On the contrary, deletions from eight hundred forty became two thousand nine hundred seventy - two. In practice, insurance banned engineers and other scientists from having access to the labour market. And I would like to ask: is this a free market? Is that a private economy, even based on the principles of their own capitalism? Is it reasonable to ban access to employment for a free professional who owes nothing to the public and does not get a public job? Yet that was their freedom. Their freedom was that Greek engineers should be deleted from the mechanics pins. And we must say that now and now, today, this situation of the weakness of young scientists seems, because only 8% have managed to regulate the hundreds of doses that other branches have done to a much greater extent. There is a real weakness among Greek scientists and professionals to regulate insurance contributions even with a hundred instalments. Because it is not possible to cover sums - EUR 400 a month, plus EUR 150 a regulation, totalling EUR 550 - from someone in the office who has nothing to pay and no grand office operating costs. Immediate measures are therefore needed. And, of course, the choice of Article 38, chosen by the insurance categories, is very correct. This is something that the fund will help, because the regulation will reach at least 30% and improve the funds' reserves. It is not something that will in no way damage any public function and public sector. However, several Members have tabled amendments, as far as insurance is concerned, further to the rules laid down in Rule 38. Dear Minister, we would like to propose, after a lot of stress, that - and with persistence, the introduction and acceptance of these amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments - and I say them only with titles - first of all, by resolving the issue of parallel activity. Because many of the engineers in our country have to insure them both in the Trades Fund and in the Engineering Fund. This has to be solved. At the same time, the issue of debts must be resolved and regulated, which retroactively and unethically implemented the fund for three years, without our fellow Members knowing at the end of 2014. This must be done, at least, without the fines. At the same time, I think that there should be a restoration of the insurance capacity for those engineers and, in general, scientists, who have not been able to cover their insurance contributions. In all this effort, however, we are trying to keep the country up, unfortunately, yesterday we had a major problem of democratic diversion in the Chamber of Technical Chamber, and I would like to mention it, ladies and gentlemen. Without being on the agenda and without a quorum, an administration of a Chamber of Technical Chambers, which is situated and adjacent to the New Democracy, tried to obtain approval of the Technical Chamber in favour of 'yes'. In practice, the people who operated in the public sector and lived from him - and I do not want to mention more than the Step of the House - who have absent from the whole defence of the rights of engineers, but also of all the productive and scientific sectors, tried yesterday to enslave both scientists and our country once again. They tried to make a enslavement decision. I have seen press releases that have emerged and a New Democracy MP say that this decision has been taken. I would therefore like to say to the National Representation that there was no quorum and no 'yes' decision was taken on Sunday in the referendum. Because, quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek scientists know very well that the only way to enable the country to stand in Europe to become productive reconstruction, to have a processing, quality and environmental infrastructure is to have a very strong 'no' through a genuinely substantial restructuring of the debt so that the best minds in Greece can serve an equal member of Europe. That's what we'll try to do together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u434	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been completed. Mr Athanasios Vardalis, a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has asked for the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need less time. I would like to clarify one point and put it for an amendment. First of all, I would like to make this clear: the Communist Party of Greece has been accused here today of identifying SYRIZA with the Memorandum parties, New Democracy and the PASOK. We want to tell you this: It is obvious that you have differences, such as all the parties have differences, even the New Democracy with PASOK. We never said that, and we never said that, and we haven't even said it here. But be careful. We are saying another thing, even now that you are talking about blackmailers, terrorism, interventions. You are asking for a 'no' to use it so that you can reach a better agreement than those who want - yes - to reach an agreement. Even now, against these blackmailers, you are telling them - and several colleagues have told them here today - that the European Union is a one-way street and that we must seek an agreement within it and that the capitalist development path is a one-way path. That's why we blame you. In our opinion, however, any agreement, whether by using 'no' yours or 'yes' of all the others, on the tracks of the European Union, will be anti-grassroots. He'll load more burdens on the people's backs. So, is there no other way today to solve the problems in favour of the people's strata and popular order? In our opinion, there is. But this road needs a conflict and a break with the European Union and the imperialist 'institutions', as you say them. And this Sunday, the people must say a great 'no', both in the proposal of the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank and in the proposal of the government. It must say 'yes' to freedom from the European Union with the people in power. With regard to the amendment, Minister, I refer to Amendment No 222/71 - which concerns the administrative staff of the port of Piraeus, of the company of Agathi, we have received information that there are unfinished seafarers at the moment we are talking about. You, too, take care of one side and only the administrative staff of the company as a matter of priority. This will result, as soon as there are no other money, seafarers remain unpaid. I would remind you that the Communist Party of Greece previously brought an amendment that put all the workers, whether they work at sea or on land, on the same fate. Why are you doing this, proposing the administrative staff to the seafarers? If you do not withdraw it, if you do not study it better, if you do not find out what problem it creates, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister, Mr. Dimitris Army, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u437	Wait a minute, Madam President, because I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u438	Here you go, Minister, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u439	As far as the provision is concerned, it solves a problem with specific employees from the Court of Auditors. These people have been struggling for too many years, they have final judicial decisions. You have tabled amendments twice as a Communist Party of Greece and we have supported them. If there are other loose ends, we are here, whether you bring in or we prepare an amendment to deal with the loose ends. The will is to solve problems that have been pending for many years. Therefore, we must resolve this issue today, which you and we have previously claimed with amendments. Do not ask me to take back an amendment concerning workers who have been unpaid for years. As you know, there was a legal gap and they can't get their allowances, their wages, etc. We'll solve this, and whatever else there is, you can testify to it. Here we are, looking at the unfinishedness you have said and to resolve it as well. For the time being, let us resolve this, since the amendment has been prepared by the relevant Minister for Maritime Affairs and we are moving forward. That's my opinion. I am not speaking on the political issue. We've been talking in previous speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u440	Minister Fotio has the floor. Mrs. Fotio, do you count that you'll get enough for a quarter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u441	No, because yesterday I only spoke five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u442	You have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u443	Ladies and gentlemen, I really will not deal with the major issue that concerns the Greek people these days, because I have confidence in the people and with the head we are heading up to these polls on Sunday, where we believe that a solution will be found to a tragedy that the Greek people have been suffering for so many years. So, proudly, with the head up and gladly going to this race, which will launch rapid developments in too many things. One part of my speech will be devoted to questions put to our Government and, in particular, to the part in which I have the responsibility, because I fear that at the last minute on the body of an excellent bill, which just proves to the satisfaction of what a government with the left can do, in a very bizarre way, has begun to be escaping that the government has done nothing, both for the US and for the children's camps, the PSE and the others. I shall therefore list and reply to what has been said yesterday, and then I shall make two very important comments - in my view - on amendments. Firstly, it was said yesterday that since Thursday, we had to apply the minimum guaranteed income to all of Greece. That is exactly what the lenders' ultimatum says, namely, that we will apply - I am very surprised, but let us wait a bit - the minimum guaranteed income and cut 900 million - or rather say it otherwise - and we must save 900 million annually, which involved pre-school allowances. Because, as you know, for the minimum guaranteed income, I did not find EUR 1.5 billion of the money needed to expand - and what does it mean to expand? To get 200 euros in the middle of a man, a family, that means a minimum guaranteed income, half-weightly, a month - because I did not find EUR over 1.5 billion, all I found was 800 million and another 200 million that we collected with soul blood for the humanitarian crisis bill, which is being implemented, I have to say that there is no greater lie, since the World Bank itself will bring us its assessment of this infamous pilot program for sixteen thousand people and all for the minimum guaranteed income. However, it cannot be said that ministers, State Secretarys and others, who have passed through the office of the Ministry of Labour, will not revolve into the fact that all the privileges for the UAA, for the multitude, will be cut off for the third parties. It was 800 million and they are asking us to save 900 million euros. Secondly, as far as poverty structures are concerned, it was said to me 'you have abandoned social structures in their luck. Thousands of employees in sixty - three structures have five months to pay. The Minister of Economy has told us twice that they will be paid." We say we have sixty three poverty structures, a thousand hundred employees. He was running out of schedule. We extended until 30 September, and we found ourselves, we ensured from here and there, because we are doing a very good administration, the resources needed for this extension - why you left them out - so that they can join the new EPA from September onwards. I have contacted Mr Stathakis, who will make the necessary payments. Thirdly, what is the PSE, the National Social Integration Strategy? So it is such a package that the previous government has presented and said the objectives of social inclusion. To make this up by the previous government - I'm not blaming it - it did two years. We made it five months ago because we had been put on a very important date of 30 June to table the new revised ERCF, which specialises all the objectives, which we want to have for the National Strategic Plan for Social Integration. Unfortunately, you will be disappointed. We've got it ready. Unfortunately you did not expect, not only to build the skills - much more since the regions have not yet finished their own skills - but also to have the action plan for the monitoring mechanism for social inclusion and social cohesion policies. So today - a flag day - we will send the PSE, which is completed and corrected with our own policies. Thirdly, the TEVA, i.e. the European Aid Fund for the most deprived, is another field of glory also brilliant. You told me yesterday: “What did you get out of this? Twenty-six million for supplies when we secured 330 million?" [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] Note: 3 300 million by 2020, of which 45 million per year. Come on when we found the 135 and announced as a Ministry the first 26 million and the remaining 105 make the innovation known for the first time by the cartels, i.e. the counties of Greece, in our tender issues. Come on, let's get the idea of putting meat, chickens, fresh vegetables and fruit, which you had been upsetting people in macaroni and rice - the ones that leave the shelves of the supermarket - and we almost made them all diabetic. Come on that way that we did, we won't photograph contractors with specifications such as "graviera of Crete PDO". They'll be able to get the Yannna and the Grevena to put their own lawn. And so come on, we won't give 135 million for supplies to the major supplier, who will come and be the German usually. To be a little fair, I don't want to pull things out today, but I got an attack that I didn't do anything for five months. So I respond to the attack: With this competition we have full geographical coverage, we facilitate the movement of products and, in particular, the sensitive ones - those who spoil - we facilitate their producers and associations to offer scales in which they can respond for the first time, we create know-how from the Ministry, which will share in all partnerships so that they do not have problems and cannot make the competitions. We need you to tell me that "forty-three structures that operate the dayclubs for a thousand four hundred children with disabilities are in the air". I say: Firstly, these structures were given the opportunity to receive money from the ESRB and the EEAS. All the structures receive both of these funding. When did this end? They ended 31-12-2014. Watch this: in 2014. We took over in February. An amendment was tabled on 23 February giving them an extension, but it was inappropriate. And I ask: Wrong? Last time? I accept everything, however, was inappropriate. We have tabled a new amendment to the relevant EBRD bodies and we have settled it. At the same time, the amendment tabled by the previous government said that they could give this money if they were registered. We need 12 million for a year. We have asked the European Union to incorporate this programme for these days. We were answered: “Unfortunately, you have only set children's stations, we cannot include this.” We are therefore looking for the 12 million for this year and in the meantime, we have reached an agreement with the EEA to meet, if these centres are requested, their needs from there. I'm just finishing up on this part. You tell us 'child camps, nothing you did, the children won't go to camp'. We've signed all child camps a lot earlier than you signed them. The Voula plan is the only contract whose, after intervention by the paraplegics - because they use it - will have been signed on 7 July. You ask us about the Protection Entities, including the Supported Living Housing Housing and you tell us "you have done nothing". We are telling you that we have already worked with the EEA in order to pay the debts pre-empted by the EEA in these structures immediately. You tell us, among other things, 'why you delayed the operational programmes'. Because they have just passed through the Monitoring Committees and the notice will come out on 20 July. You tell us "repeated with the regions" and the only response was the Attica Region. You say to us: “Why, do you? Do you not even want your own region to help?' From incapacity, I guess you mean. Well, not only are we not inactive, but we have put pressure on all the regions and I inform you that the only one who managed to respond was the Attica Region - and sit down and think about this - and we have not signed until noon today with the Attica Region because it has had some problems. In other words, we have asked for more certificates that we have brought and signed today at noon. So I'm done with all this. I ask you: This is the solidarity card that will give from EUR 70 to EUR 220 per month to every family that has been put into our schedule. It's a hundred and fifty thousand families. What do you mean by the minimum guaranteed income? The 200 euros in the middle? From tomorrow we sign with Minister Skourletis a contract with PPC. This means that all those who requested electricity for free the next quarter will get 1,200 Kwh for free and connect the cut streams. Is that what it does with the 200 euros you give to sixteen thousand people or across Greece for the minimum guaranteed income? Comparable? You tell us what you're doing with the rent. We give 70 to 220 euros every month. Aggregate these, see what we give with the 200 million pounds, as you have told us. Because that's how they keep saying: 'Well, they're good, but they're aspirins. We did terrible things." As far as the amendments are concerned, you know them. I will insist on two, and I will insist on two, because they are of enormous importance. One is the Sicily Foundation. You know that the Sicilian Foundation is under threat of collapse. A sound financial management needs to be ensured in Sicily. And I don't mean donations or whatever it has, but only state subsidies. In other words, it needs control over state subsidies, because, in our view, there are problems in good management, which is why we are bringing you this amendment. The second thing I would like to say - and I conclude - is that this is an amendment which amends an existing legal regime concerning the financial reorganisation of private individuals of a non-profit-making nature providing public utilities. This is not a new regulation or a new law. We amend two articles because the existing legal regime could not be applied for the following four reasons: Firstly, it contained vague arrangements for the bodies that were entitled to join the settlement programme. Secondly, it provided for the regulation of operators' debts to the public and insurance institutions and ignored the obligations imposed on workers. They, in other words, do not mind that they were never paid through consolidation and third-party creditors. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of Mrs. Deputy Minister hits the warning bell at the end of the speech time.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. Thirdly, it contained beneficial financing provisions, without conditions and conditions to ensure the interests of the public. Fourthly, while anticipating an observatory, it had vague roles and, most importantly, its action had not been activated. So it was not practically possible to supervise the activities of the bodies that were part of the programme. So what do we do? Firstly, we clearly identify the categories of bodies that can enter this law. There were no categories of operators either. Who'd get into this? And we are strict: only legal persons involved, such as welfare institutions. Secondly, we specialise and tighten up the framework for the implementation of the Resolution. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Thirdly - four points are - we clarify the responsibilities of the observatory, which will be auditing and advisory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u444	Take your time, Mrs. Fotio. Don't push. It's important what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u445	Madam President, as you can see, I have been put in the press here. I insist on the amendment to the resolution. I insist, because they are indeed private-law legal persons throughout Greece, which, unfortunately, have huge properties - they may also be second after the Church, or they may also be, such as the Athens Elderly, who has thirty months' pay, while the various institutions of 50 months and so on - have fallen out completely and the resolution, which was provided for, had graceful provisions like the ones I mentioned to you. That is why I insist very much on this. They say to me "Can't you expect us to talk about it?" What can we talk about? It is a law that is passed and we amend its two articles in order to tighten the regime to the benefit of the public. After giving the public money to legal persons under private law, I do not understand why we should not be too strict on everything. The responsibilities of the Observatory, which will be of an audit and an advisory nature, shall be clarified. Fourthly, there is a special provision for the debts to workers. They'll fire the workers and they don't owe them anything. Fifthly, there is a special provision for the use of the property of applicants for promotional services, with a direct objective of economic repairing the institutions and ensuring social care and care. I want to tell you from the outset that most of these very large privileged institutions have two bodies, two unions. One is the one that goes down and goes in and exercises - supposedly - the services and the other is the one that has the property and the donations. If this amendment does not pass, you will know one another and the other will be real estate. That is what I wanted to say, Madam President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform the House of the following: Since some are looting and amazing to divert the European acquis, they must intervene in a determined referendum, for which it must be made clear that, once decided by the Greek Parliament, there is no constitutional procedure to overturn and cancel, therefore the scenarios are missing, to miss the evil interventions, to lack terrorism, to lack the propaganda, to lack the information. The statements which, in fact, do not serve neither the European acquis nor the Europe of peoples and societies nor the Europe of democracy are lacking, but are serving a Europe that is divided into a state of totalitarianism and a lack of respect both for popular sovereignty and democratic function and for parliamentary function. I would like to inform the House that, contrary to anti-democratic and anti-European interventions, which we have heard from official lips in the last few days and hours, there are in the European Union and voices which strike the bell of the need for respect for democracy. I will submit to the Minutes, in order to take into account all Members of Parliament, today's letter from the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Giannakis Homer, who visited Greece and the Greek Parliament last week and attended the plenary session, in which he also addressed to me and to my face throughout the House: "On behalf of the House of Representatives, I would like to express our wholehearted support for Greece and the Greek people at this critical time. The Greek people's right to decide democratically on such an important issue, such as the conclusion of an agreement, mutually beneficial between the Greek Government and the Eurozone, must be fully respected. I hope and hope that the principle of solidarity will prevail in the Eurozone and in the European Union, as will the principles and values on which the European structure has been founded. I wish again strength and courage in order to tackle and appreciate the difficulties experienced by the Greek state and the Greek people today in getting out of the crisis and creating the conditions for growth, prosperity and social cohesion." In the same direction, I had earlier contact with my French counterpart, Mr Claude Bartollon, the President of the French National Assembly. And I am going to take a more general initiative to activate parliaments and parliamentary procedures at this very critical moment, because the order of democratisation, accountability and transparency cannot remain a blank letter in the European Union. Please receive Mr Homer's letter for the minutes. [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to make a communication from the Chair, given that there is a record - in the context of the general propaganda that exists - that has been created on social media two fake profiles. I denounce it from a seat, because one of the two is signed "Chairman of Parliament". As a twitter it does not belong to the President of Parliament. Correspondingly, a Facebook profile with my name is not my profile. I think it is self-evident that, as I have heard, today it has been posted to this profile and photo of the dictator Metaxas together with the inscription 'OF'. I think that in modern times it is important to remind ourselves and remember that the 'OHS' did not say so by any dictator. The "OH" was said by the Greek people and the "OH" will be said again by the Greek people. Saying these...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u447	Should we also make a resolution?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u448	We will be pleased, Mr Koutsouko, when you bring in a resolution which will be the 'OH'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u449	We authorize you to take it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u450	If you authorize me, of course I'll bring it. Of course! We don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u451	It is not your job to close the meeting with them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u452	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u453	I know, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u454	If you know that, don't insist, because then I'm gonna have to apply the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u455	Apply it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u456	...which you remember at choice and at will.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u457	We never... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u458	I would also like to say that the Conference of Presidents scheduled for the end of the sitting, after the end of the sitting, will take place at 19:30, when the results of the vote have been announced. The floor is raised by the Deputy Minister for Social Security Mr. Military for a procedural intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u459	Thank you very much, Madam President. Because I have accepted many amendments, not only ministerial, but also parliamentary amendments, what I ask, Madam President, is that the sentence 'and other provisions' should be translated into the title of the bill so that it can actually be reflected in the title of what has been done and in the content of the bill. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Is there any dentistry that's been asked for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u461	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u462	Is there a request for dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u463	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u464	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor. You've taken the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u465	I have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u466	I'll be briefed here by the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u467	As the procedure has been afflicted in this respect, Madam President, I have contacted the parliamentary representatives, not to go into more general matters, and I would like to keep this in mind. I owe the Praesidium on the Minutes, because it was earlier - you were not here - a confrontation with Mr Dritsa, the statement by Mrs Gennamas on appeal to Europe's leaders for a Summit, an extension of the programme and a new outlet agreement. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u468	It is a pity, Mr Kutsukouko, who is not here a representative of the New Democracy to present to us the statements made by the Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u469	I don't understand. If your intervention is for my information, it is accepted. Obviously, our position does not match what the New Democracy suggests. Furthermore, Madam President, we have just been informed by the media that the Prime Minister has sent a letter to the European Stability Mechanism, which is to say, calling for a new programme, a new loan, obviously with new commitments for the country. At the time the agreement expires, that is to say, the extension signed by the Government. I do not know, Madam President, whether we need to find a way - and I am addressing you - to discuss this in this House, because this is something very different from what we have led to developments and the referendum, that is, the difference between the government's proposal and the proposal made by the creditors for the measures and we are going to the referendum. I think that the people need to be informed about what it means that we are abandoning the old programme and going to a new proposal. I'm coming to the bill now. Mr Kegeroglu, our rapporteur, responded in advance to what Mrs Fotou says. I don't want to get into this right now. There's no reason. The debate on the bill was over. We have voted in favour in principle and we will be voting in favour of most of the articles. In some cases we have reservations, we will vote 'at present'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But for the democratic order, I would like you to share a situation with the amendments that have been accepted, Madam President, because if I have counted them well, they are more than twenty - twenty - five, many of which are irrelevant, many of which are late and some are also photographic. And since you have a sensitivity to the observance of the Rules of Procedure - which I must acknowledge - I would like you to share in this House a list of the amendments, the many amendments, which are usually tabled in the last few days of a government. We've been through this before. If you are so kind as to make it easier for the House and to be placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u470	Mr Kutsukouko, because I went to the Chair just now, you obviously realise that I will not be placed on what you have said in relation to the previous debate. However, I am informed by the competent authority that all the amendments have been distributed. I imagine that you have also taken the appropriate steps to discuss and accept the amendments. That is how I interpret the joint agreement of the parliamentary representatives as not to give a second thought. In any case, if there is any amendment that you do not have, please say it now or interrupt for a while, so that the whole of the amendments can be found in your knowledge and at your disposal. You know that an express directive on services, which I know is being applied outright, is firstly that the amendments are made available in time and that there is not, of course, an amendment that is not known to Members. In addition, it is so traumatic that the previous Parliament in its majority rejected by a photographic vote in advance bankers - who had granted loans to PASOK and New Democracy - who would not have left any amendment in the name of the President of this House in any way to the knowledge of the Members. So, please, if there is any amendment that you do not know, please say it, or if you want to request a short-minute interruption, which we would be happy to do, to inform you of any gaps.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u471	I don't want to get in the way. If there are any amendments, I will ask that I be informed at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u472	The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m. The vote will be taken by Mrs Charalabidou, the third Vice-President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u473	However, Madam President, when you are kind enough to facilitate the debate, remember what happened with Kolokotronis, Plapua and Kapodistrias, you will have to finish it sometime. This story doesn't come out anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u474	Didn't I understand you, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u475	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u476	Remembering, you know, matters. And remember and who said "OF" is also of importance. Those who serve oblivion are those who renounce and periodically renounce the rights, demands and democratic tradition of our people. It's being declared obsolete....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u477	Madam President, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u478	Mr Grego, are you rapporteur or parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u479	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u480	You are the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn. Do you want the word for dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u481	I would like to speak for just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u482	Here, Mr Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u483	We have again seen that there are too many amendments. The scale of the amendments is enormous. We simply do not vote for late amendments. However, there is one about the "Sikiridio" Foundation and we will make a misunderstanding here. Because a lot of latents think they're right, it'd be good if they could get together, come back to another bill. And you will allow me, because you referred before the "OTH" and Metaxas, I will certainly disagree with that. The "OH" was said by the national governor of Ioannis Metaxas. He said it at 5 o'clock in the morning. He didn't make a referendum. He didn't wake the Greek people. He decided on his own, 'OTI' and not even a referendum. I mean, it would be nice not to falsify history, with all due respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u484	Your opinion of the amendments and your opinion on 'OH' has been recorded, but I would say that history is not falsified and history is important to be attributed to the one who actually wrote it - and it was our people. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles of the bill is adjourned and we will proceed to the vote. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents will be held at 19:30. I would ask the Third Vice-President of Parliament to hold the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u485	As the President said, we are going to vote on the articles and amendments of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity bill: "Measures on the relief of the UAA, the simplification of the operation of the Disability Certification Centres (KEPAs).), the fight against tax evasion and related insurance and other provisions’, and the vote will be taken separately. The New Democracy is absent. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u489	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u492	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u496	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u499	Article 2 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u506	Article 3 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u513	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u520	Article 5 has therefore been accepted as such, by a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u527	Article 6 was therefore accepted as such, by a majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u534	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, unanimously. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u541	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, unanimously. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u548	Article 9 has therefore been accepted as such, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u555	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as such, by a majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u562	Article 11 has therefore been accepted as it stands, unanimously. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u569	Article 12, as amended by the Minister, was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u573	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u576	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u580	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u583	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u590	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u591	Madam President, I would like to make a clarification. In Article 13 we voted 'in the same way' and the position of our party remains the same. But there is one amendment to which we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u592	Listen. All the amendments will be voted on separately, so you will be able to vote accordingly. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u599	Article 16 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u602	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u606	Article 17, as amended by the Minister, was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u610	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u613	Article 18 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u620	So Article 19 was accepted as it is, unanimously. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u627	Article 20 therefore has been accepted as such, by a majority. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u630	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u634	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u641	Article 22 was therefore accepted as such, by a majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u648	Article 23 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u655	So Article 24 was accepted as it is, unanimously. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u662	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u669	So Article 26 was accepted as it is, unanimously. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u676	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u683	Article 28 has therefore been accepted as it stands, unanimously. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u685	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u690	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u697	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u699	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u702	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u704	Article 31 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 32 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u711	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u718	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u725	Article 34 has therefore been accepted as it stands, unanimously. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u732	Article 35 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u739	Article 36 has therefore been accepted as it stands, unanimously. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u746	Article 37 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u750	Opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u753	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u760	Article 39 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u767	Article 40 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u773	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u774	Article 41 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u781	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u783	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u788	Article 43 was therefore accepted as such by a majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u790	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u792	Opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u795	Article 44 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u796	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u802	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as it stands, unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I shall summarise the contents of each amendment. You've already taken them. Does the House accept the amendment, with a general number of 186, and a special number of 38? It concerns issues relating to the amendment of the provision on the time of payment of the income tax, the extension of up to 27 July 2015 of the final date, etc.Huh? It is the amendment tabled by Mrs Valavani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u809	Therefore, Amendment No 186 and a special 38 were accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 199 and a special number of 50? It is the amendment tabled by Mr Stathakis, which relates to the inclusion of deadlines for convening a general meeting for the Member States, the EU. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u816	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 199 and a special 50 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 204 and a special number 54? It is the amendment which Mrs Valavani has tabled, which concerns supplementing and amending provisions relating to n. 4321/2015 regarding the possibility of subjecting the debt arrangement that is established and due until 1-3-2015 in their tax declaration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u823	The amendment under a general number 204 and a special 54 was therefore accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 205 and a special number 55, as amended by the Minister? I would remind you that the amendment deals with the regulation of various matters of competence of the former Ministry of Shipping and the Aegean and was presented very thoroughly by the relevant Minister, Mr Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u830	The amendment, under a general number 205 and a special 55, was therefore accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 206 and a special number 56? I would remind you that it is about extending the deadline for the submission of a declaration by legitimately operating radio stations to the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts with regard to their aeronautic systems and I think that this amendment has been tabled - if I remember correctly - by Mr Papapas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u837	The amendment under a general number 206 and a special 56 were therefore accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 207 and a special number 57? I would remind you that it concerns the transfer by six months of the implementation of the procedure for direct invoicing of the media advertised. Mr Papapas and this amendment have been presented in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u844	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 207 and a special 57 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 213 and a special number 62? I would remind you that it concerns an amendment which has verbal changes in a number of laws and legislations. It was presented yesterday even in the committee procedure by Mrs Fotou. The contents are that modern terminology is introduced with clear content, in the context of strengthening unprotected children, by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. It is a late amendment, but it is nevertheless introduced and adopted to be voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u846	By a majority. We're not voting late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u850	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u851	Therefore, Amendment No 213 and special 62, was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 214 and a special number 63? It concerns a regulation on issues relating to the Standing Committee on the Protection and Aid for Crimes of Criminal Code, the appointment of a secretary and a substitute for the functioning of that Committee and the rename of the relevant Ministries and legal persons under public law Annex 233/2003. I think Mrs Fotou presented her, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u853	No, not all late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u858	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 214 and a special 63, was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 216 and a special 65, as amended by the Minister? It concerns a regulation of issues relating to the programming, evaluation, management, monitoring and control of the implementation of operations benefiting from a financial contribution from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for a period of 2014-2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u860	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u865	Therefore, Amendment No 216, and Amendment No 65, was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 219 and a special number 68? It concerns arrangements concerning the operation of the "Sikiridio" Foundation of Unappropriated Children. It is a long-term amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u872	So you did not let me sanctify an amendment! - the amendment with a general number 219 and a special 68, was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number of 220 and a special number of 69? It concerns costs incurred by the staff of the Legal Personnel of Public Law ‘National Centre for Social Solidarity’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u876	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u879	The amendment, under a general number 220 and a special 69, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 221 and a special 70? It is an amendment which Mrs Fotou, in this Chamber yesterday, was tabled by Mrs Fotou, which redefined the status of reorganisation of innovative bodies, of private legal persons, of a non-profit-making nature, of mutual institutions, of charitable associations, associations, etc., and of which is amended, supplements Article 56 of the Act. 4262/2014 regarding the status of the Observatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u882	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u883	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u885	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u886	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 221 and a special 70, was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 222 and a special number 71? This is an amendment tabled by Mr Dritsa, today in detail, which relates to the provision of claims by a main shipwreck worker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u888	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u890	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u893	Therefore, Amendment No 222 and special 71, was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are going through the parliamentary amendments and I would particularly like to thank the services that have made it so well. Does the House agree with this amendment, with a general number of 183 and 35, which relates to the regulation of liability of legal persons? It is an amendment tabled by MP Evangelia Ammanatidos Pascalidou by SYRIZA, which was accepted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u900	Therefore, Amendment No 183, and Amendment No 35, was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 184 and a special number 36? Does it concern matters relating to the insurance of the scientific staff of the Legal Personnel of Public Law “Greek Institute of International and Foreign Law”? I would remind you that it is a parliamentary amendment from Mrs Catrivanou and a number of other Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u907	The amendment, by a general number 184 and a special 36, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment, with a general number of 185 and a special number of 37? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It concerns, in other words, the extensions of the arrangements made for the debtors of the insurance funds. It is an amendment by Members, Mr Leucasco, Mr Petrakos and a number of other Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u914	Therefore, Amendment No 185 and Amendment No 37 were accepted unanimously and is part of the bill as the same article. Asked by this House: Can the amendment be accepted under a general number 192...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u915	It's 195.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u916	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u917	It's the 187.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u918	185, I've told her. It's the extension of a deadline. What I analysed earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u919	Let's go to the cab later. In 192 let's go...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u920	We closed it in 185. I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u921	Madam President, what has been distributed to us, the plan, the amendment refers to as 195/46. Taxi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u922	Is that the taxi one? Let's get to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u923	Mr. Kutsuko, we'll come to an agreement. I just have a body prepared by the services. That's what I read to you. We voted unanimously on Amendment No 185. I'm on my way now. Watch me and leave the bill a little bit. We shall now proceed to the amendment with a general number of 192 and a special number 44.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u924	He's not in the body.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u925	Go a little on page 14 of the bill, Article 32, Mr. Koutsuko. Did you find it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u927	It concerns the recasting of Article 32 of the draft law: ‘Measures for the relief of UAA, the simplification of the operation of disability certification centres, the fight against tax evasion and related insurance’. It is Amendment No 192. It is the amendment tabled by Mrs Gerovalis and myself, which Mr Solana described, by making it acceptable. It is the amendment which the WTO - ITA also defended in the consultation of bodies. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u928	That is, Article 32.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u929	That's it. That is to say we correct Rule 32 by including it in Amendment 192. Replacement, in fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u930	It has been voted on, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u931	But it has not been voted on, Madam President. It is Mrs Gerovassili's amendment, which proposes that they receive the benefits, that is to say, that the only of them and the workers in local government can buy out their military service. It was a unanimous request from the federation. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u932	We say 'yes' but we have voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u933	Mr. Koutsukos is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u934	We've voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u935	Wait a minute. He explained that at the end of the day they would be voted on. So we didn't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u936	Well, the agency's gonna fix this for how it's going to happen. So it is this amendment that I have told you. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 192 and a special number of 44?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u943	The amendment with a general number of 192 and a special 44 has therefore been accepted by a majority, is part of the bill as the same article and will make the correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u944	Madam President, this is not an article itself. It's an addition to Article 32.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u945	Mr. Army, the agency will fix it. Thank you very much, and you and Mr Koutsouko for the remarks. The agency's gonna fix it. We'll work it out. We'll make the correction now to vote for the bill as a whole. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 195 and a special number of 46? It concerns provisions to facilitate disabled people in relation to the exploitation of passenger public use. It is an amendment tabled by fellow Members, Mr Vardakis, Mr Dermitzakis and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u950	Yeah. Madam President, we are accepting the amendment but it is very photographic. We would ask you another time, if possible, not to have such a photography amendment. But we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u951	Here you go. It is totally discriminatory, because there is a request from many public car owners, to be able to move in the summer to tourist areas, which has not been satisfied. Mr. Chaikilis said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u952	However, it concerns disabled people over 67%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u953	So - and by keeping Mr Haikalis' comment - the amendment, with a general number 195 and a special 46, was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number of 208 and a special number of 58? It is an amendment by Members concerning the regulation of insurance contributions from the Single Insurance Fund for Self-employed persons, the EAFRD. It is a long-term amendment. However, due to the necessity and importance of the amendment, it has been accepted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u955	Oh, no. It's late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u960	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 208 and a special 58 was accepted by a majority and will be added to Article 38 of the draft law. We're on page 18 of the body. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 210 and a special number 59? It concerns the so-called re-energy, i.e. an extension of the regulatory effect of the National General Association of Labour Convention and other collective arrangements concluded or terminated. It is an amendment made by Members and by SYRIZA and PASOK and the JRC. It is accepted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u962	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u967	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 210 and a special 59 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 211 and a special number of 60? This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. It's in Article 12. It comes as paragraph 2 on page 7 of the bill, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u969	Not as a delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u974	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 211 and a special 60 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as Article 13 and will follow a numbering. What you have made as an observation, that is, Mr Vardalis. We shall now proceed to the amendment with a general number of 212 and a special number of 61. Wait a minute, because here's a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u975	There's been a mistake at 211. You said the contents of 212.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u976	Yeah. There's been a mistake in 211. What I announced as 211 is Amendment 212. The one we voted on. It is for the extension of the validity of the first-degree ATT budgets.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u977	Where's the text?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u978	All of them have been distributed, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u979	Madam President, let me say something about the Minutes. The amendment with a general number 211 and a special 60 tabled by the Members. Barkas, Leucakos and Charalapidou to add prediction, its content was - and had not been read - "A provision in the cases of assistance to Disabled Benefits and Remunerations for Employment". We voted before, on 211. We are now at 212, which is to extend the validity of OTA budgets and so on. Are we in agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u980	Good. We shall therefore proceed if we have voted, since we have voted by a majority on Amendment No 211, on Amendment No 212. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 212 and a special number 61?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u982	Not as a delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u984	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u987	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 212 and a special 61 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 215 and a special 64? It is an amendment which the Minister accepted and presented. It concerns an extension of the time limit laid down in Article 48 of Law 4250/2014 and the regularisation of the staff of the freighter compensation funds, i.e. the MFFs, which are dismantled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u989	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u993	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u994	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 215 and a special 64 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 217 and a special number of 66? This applies to the granting of supplementary pension by the maritime insurance industry of a maritime accident. It is the amendment that Mr Dritsa referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u996	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1001	The amendment, by a general number 217 and a special 66, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 218 and a special number 67? It is the amendment which regulates the issue of ship repair operations. It was accepted by Mr Dritsas, who analysed the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1003	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1005	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1008	Therefore, Amendment No 218, and Amendment No 67, has been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 223 and a special number 72? It concerns the ratification of ministerial decisions and was tabled by Mr Clinton Davis. Leucascus, Charalabides, Karayannides, Statha. It has to do with the free transport of the unemployed and the removal of fines, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1011	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1015	The amendment under a general number 223 and a special 72 were therefore accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1020	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1021	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1022	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures for the relief of the U.S., simplifying the operation of the Disability Certification Centres (K.S.A.).), the fight against tax evasion and related insurance matters and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in principle and under Articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1023	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1024	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1025	Madam President, we have been positively placed both in the debate and in the first place in most of the articles and in most of the amendments, as you have seen. However, voting on a bill as a whole means that it has been checked and that the Bureau and colleagues have not dispersed some unrealistic decisions that have not been corrected. Since I have therefore found that we have a total of twenty-six amendments, which others are in the articles, others are as separate articles and because the substance of the bill, namely the extension of the collective bargaining we have actually voted on, I would ask the Bureau to check and do so at another time, tomorrow, if you do not have a problem. I just keep a reservation, because then you won't be able to fix it. For we have had twenty-six amendments, which I cannot control where each one was put. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1026	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1027	Madam President, because you have a Conference of Presidents and, as far as we know, the parliamentary work is stopped this evening, and because we need to get a CVT and the reinvigoration of the National General Association of Labour Convention and, above all, to continue to apply the rules on insurance debtors, we have no other possibility. We were able to do everything we could, Mr Kutsuko - you know, from your experience with the government - with my partners. We have literally done what you have seen in the past three hours whether or not the amendments have been put in place properly, etc. I would ask you, because the bill voted on almost 99% of the articles and as a party, to lift your reservations and vote on the whole for these reasons, in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1028	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1029	You saw that our intentions are good, they are positive. And when I spoke, I would ask the President to give us a list of the amendments, I did so. I didn't do it to remind me of what has happened in the past, because it will make me remind her of what has happened in the past. End this corn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1030	So in keeping with Mr Koutsoukos' remark, which has been made in a good mood and well-meaning manner, we shall continue. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1037	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Measures for the relief of the U.S., simplifying the operation of the Disability Certification Centres (CCIs).), the fight against tax evasion and related insurance and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority in a single debate in principle, pursuant to Article and all of it, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1038	Mr. Army, a very good bill was passed today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1039	Be well, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1040	I would like to believe that everything that you have committed yourself to in parliamentary amendments and to comments from the party rapporteurs will soon come to the House for a vote. For some people you made a commitment that within a month you'll bring them. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-30-S1-commons.u1041	With the consent of the House at 18.40 the meeting and the Conference of Presidents to be followed, in accordance with the plenary decision, will be decided on the days and hours of the next sitting.
