ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the reading of REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Zesis Zianna, to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-21-S1-commons.u2	The MPs of Heraklion, Emmanouil Synthrakis, Larissa, George Lambroulis, Lesvos Stavros Tassos reported to the Ministry of Health that the Workers' Association of the General Hospital of Heraklion is requesting a immediate solution to the main problems of working for workers and hospital patients. Ilias MP Yiannis Koutsoukos filed a petition to the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the Ilias Chamber points out by letter that the problem that has arisen in the companies by imposing capital controls must be addressed. MEP Ilias Mr. Yiannis Koutsoukos filed a petition to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, in which the Ilias Chamber of Commerce, by letter, highlights the operational problems facing the Municipal Port Tower Fund. Congressman Achaias Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has submitted a report to the Ministry of National Defence, by which the Association of Military Regions of Thessaly (ESDP) calls for a new bill or an amendment regulating the pension of the Armed Forces, the normalisation of retirement time for those who joined the Armed Forces from 1990 onwards, and the possibility of recognizing five fictitious years of service to all military personnel. Parliamentarians Xanthi Mr Hussein Zebeck and Efstathios Giannakides have submitted a report to the Ministry of Health that the Mayor of the Municipality of Mykes, Xanthi, stresses the need to serve the Municipality with an additional ambulance driver for the Ehinos Health Center. Reference to the Minister of Finance, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, to the Minister of State for the fight against corruption by MP Achaias Nikolopoulos on the subject: Need for denial or verification of publications concerning the Anonymous Service Company “GENNET”. "Please for your placement on the letter that we received from the public limited company “GENNET” based in Kifisias Avenue 36 Athens in order to verify or disprove but also in order to act as appropriate as the laws, the duty and the oath you have imposed on you." Reference by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Health on the subject: Request to fill organic posts in the nursing staff of the ERC hospitals. "Please beg for your position on the press release that the Panhellenic Trade Union Federation of Nursing Personnel (PASONOP) has promoted to me regarding their request for organic posts to be filled in to the nursing staff of the ESS Hospitals." Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Finance on: Need to settle the case of potential digital violations and design of a parallel payment system using TAXIS data. Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Prime Minister, Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Minister of Economy, on the subject: Request for the restoration of injustices against the many families in the country. "Please beg for your position on the letter of protest promoted by the Association of Polyteces Kozanis on the need to care for and immediately restore injustices to the many families of the country." Report by MP Achaias Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Prime Minister and Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: Discontinuation of the distribution of food and other aid to the multitude families. "Please beg for your position on the press release that I was promoted by the Supreme Confederation of Polytecnes (EPC) on the interruption in food distribution to the large families of the country." Report by MP Achaias Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: Request for the graduation of the long-term volunteers. "Please beg for your position on a memo sent to us by the Union of Western Macedonia Military Regions in order to assimilate the grading evolution of long-term volunteers with the other officials of the PSY School." Report by MP Achaias Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: Request for equal treatment of natural radiopharmaceuticals IP12.10 serving as permanent teachers in secondary education. "Please beg for your position on the letter that promoted us with Physics MSEs of Physics." Report by Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction in view of the Deputy Minister of Migration Policy, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, in view of the Deputy Minister of the Environment, Mr Giannis Tsironis, on the subject: Creation of an Open Immigration Structure in a private building. A protest letter from residents of the area of Nea Philothi of the Municipality of Athens, which refers to the creation and operation of an open hosting structure for migrants in a private building, is submitted. Report by Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religion on the subject: Restoration of injustices by acts and omissions of the General Secretariat of Sports. Report by Mr Ephremidis, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities to the Council (COM(86) 436 final — Doc. Manolis Synchronakis and Stavros Tassos to Mr. Minister of Culture, Education and Religion on the decision of the Acharnon-Asterousia City Council calling for the extension of the operation of the Tefellion High School. Report by MP Achaias Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: Request to lift the additional reservation for Elos. "Please beg for your position on a letter promoted by the Panhellenic Association of Long-Death Volunteers, requesting the lifting of the additional reservation for LOLOS." Report by Maria Antonios to the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: Suspension of the operation of Greek fur business due to the imposition of capital controls. "A letter from the President of the Kastoria Chamber to the Minister notified and to me in which he expresses his strong concern at the measure of the imposition of capital controls". Madam President, the reports have been read out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. I'm going to go through some paperwork now. I am recognizing the statement of departure from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the establishment of an independent single parliamentary group, a statement tabled this morning and has received a protocol number 2907 from the Special Secretariat of the President of the Parliament. "The signatories who have been elected MPs with the combinations of the Radical Left coalition during the national elections of 25 January 2015 from which this House came, we make known and declare to the President of the Greek Parliament, consistent with our election commitments, that we are separated from the party's parliamentary group in which we have risen and constituted a single independent parliamentary group, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, in particular Articles 15 and 16 thereof, and the provisions of Section III of the Greek Constitution. We wish and declare that the name of the group set up is 'LATINITY'. The Chief and Chairman of the constituted Parliamentary Group is Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis of Georgiou, MP 2, Piraeus Region. Members of our parliamentary group, MPs and signatories to this statement are the following: 1. Lafazanis Panayiotis of Georgiou, Member of the Region of Piraeus 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Ammanatidou - Pascalidou Evangelia (Litsa) of Georgiou, MP II Region of Thessaloniki 3. Haitani Ioanna of Georgiou, MP I Region of Thessaloniki 4. Demetrius Constantine of the Gospel, MP of the Magnesia Prefecture 5. Diamantopoulos Evangelos of Pericles, MP of the Prefecture of Kastoria 6. Zannas Zeesis of Gregorios, Member of the Prefecture of Pierres 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Zerdelis Ioannis of Christoforos, Member of the Lesvos Prefecture 8. Quiet Constantine - Hercules of Nikolaos, MP II Region of Athens 9. Ioannides Ilias of Lazarus, Member of the Kavala Prefecture 10. Kritsotakis Michael of Georgiou, MP of Heraklion Prefecture 11. Sunday Vassilis Konstantinos, MP of the Fthiotida Prefecture 12. Judge of Lazarus, Member of the State 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Kotsias Thomas Marcos, Member of the Evritania Prefecture 14. Observed. Lapavitas Konstantinos of Antonios, MP of the Imathia Prefecture 15. Leucasos Eftathos (Stathes) of Pierros, MP I Region of Piraeus 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Long Rachel of Constantine, Constantine Law MEP 17. Uzanid Evgenias of Christos, MP of Kozani Prefecture 18. Petrakos Athanasios, Constantine, Member of the Messinia Prefecture 19. Samoilis Stefanos, Konstantinos - Nikolaos, MP of Corfu Prefecture 20. Scumas Athanasios, Demetrios, Member of the Law of Boeotia 21. Ioannis Statha Ioannis Panagiotis, Member of the Voiotia Prefecture 22. Army Dimitris of Ioannis, MP II District of Athens 23. (Bull. Chanaka Alexandra, Member of the Kavala Prefecture 24. Charalapidou Despina Dimitrios, MP I Region of Thessaloniki 25. Fisher Eleni of Panagiotis, Member of the Messinia Prefecture.’ This declaration has the signatures of all Members of Parliament and is dated 21 August 2015. Please enter the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-21-S1-commons.u4	Another announcement to this House. The Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, National Defence, Economic and Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism and the Deputy Minister of Finance submitted on 17-8-2015 a draft law: ‘Incorporation into Greek law of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC’, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013 ‘Adjusting Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions’. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House on 5-8-2015, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, for criminal proceedings following the reference of 25-4-2013, which is the subject of a complaint by Panagiotis Vaggis, former Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Investigator "The NEWMARTYS GEORGIOS JOANINS" concerning the former Minister of Labour, Social Security and Welfare, etc. Ioannis Vroutsis and Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, respectively, to investigate any criminal behavior related to 1) by not accepting the resignation of the supreme complainant for a long time and 2) by moving an employee from that therapy in Thesprotia Therapy. Communication to Parliament, 21 August 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the River Parliamentary Group, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, has tabled a request for a preliminary agenda for debate, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on 'Inability of the Government to administer migration and refugee flows'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-21-S1-commons.u5	I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament on 5-8-2015, in accordance with Articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 11-2001, point 1.6.42), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003: 'Prime responsibility of the Ministers', as is the case, for criminal proceedings brought by 7-7-2014. Desnis Hasiotis, Helen Athenian, Theanos Vlachos and Dimitrios Gogos, which concerns the former Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Konstantinos Arvanitopoulos, to investigate any criminal conduct concerning the process of transfers carried out under the provisions of Article 82(11) of the Law. 4172/2013 for permanent staff of secondary to primary education. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 5-8-2015, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as is the case, criminal case-file formed following the document of 28-7-2015 of the Assistant Prosecutor of Corruption Crimes and related to the former Minister of National Defence, Mr Ioannis Papantoniou, for investigating any criminal conduct concerning the signature and execution of the case. No. No. 13/2003 Leopard 2HEL Convention on Compensatory Benefits resulting from the supply of tank 2HEL (Convention No 016A/03 of the HRC). I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 14.8.2015, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, for criminal proceedings created following an appeal by Artemis Mathaiopoulos, MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn, and for the former Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, for the alleged infringement of duty violation (Article 259 PK), on violation of provisions of the Penitentiary Code on visiting detainees of the People's League - Golden Dawn. I would also like to inform the House of the removal of the topical and urgent questions from today's issue: The first under number 455/28-7-2015, a topical question by the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr.K. Economou, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the legality check, in respect of the activities on the Boula Attica Aquarous Island, is deleted. The second question, under number 451/27-7-2015, by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Ministers of National Defence and Finance, concerning the transfer of the camp "Megas Alexandros", located in the Municipality of Ampelokipou - Menemou of the Prefecture of Thessaloniki, to the Public Property Response Fund (TADE) is deleted. The third, with number 445/24-7-2015, is a timely question by MP B' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the retrospective cross-checking of foreign transfers. The fourth under number 421/7-2015 is a timely question by the Member of the Messinia Coalition of the Radical Left, Mr Athanasios Petrakos, to the Minister of State, concerning the non-compliance of electoral law by private radio and television stations. The fifth question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas, on the delay in the regulation on the'red loans' of farmers in the former Agricultural Bank, is deleted. The sixth question by Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties, is deleted. The seventh Question No 375/22-6-2015 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the publication on cooperation by Elena Panaritis with a well-known multinational company, while at the same time participating in the negotiating team of our country, is deleted. The eighth Question No 431/17-7-2015 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Finance on the VAT of the remote islands is deleted. Finally, the first question under number 3723/26/2015 by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diakrias to the Minister of Finance, concerning the restoration of public losses in cases of untimely delivery of works by contractors, is deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-21-S1-commons.u6	With the consent of the House, 10.34 minutes will be closed.
