ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity: 'Agreements on direct measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and Governmental Institutions and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u2	Which majority were you talking about, Madam President? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u3	Madam President, do we not have the right to vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u4	Madam President, you are not listening!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u5	You said, first of all, that the Minister and the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy will speak. I am very sorry, but the debate cannot be closed without the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u6	We are now entering the debate on the articles of the draft law. I propose that articles be discussed as a unity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u7	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u8	Madam President, I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u9	I would remind you that the debate and vote on the articles are taken successively and in turn in the text of the bill, in accordance with Rule 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. In accordance with Rule 102(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure, inclusion in the list of speakers in the debate on articles may therefore be requested from the beginning of the debate on this article until the end of the speech of the fourth in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u10	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u11	I am very sorry, but the debate cannot be closed without the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u12	Everyone will take the floor, Mr. Kikilia. Everybody's gonna take the floor! The Bureau did not deny the floor to anyone. We're entering a new conversation and they're all gonna take the floor. Is that why you didn't vote? Do you want to vote now? Because you'll get the reason for this right after. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You'll all take the floor, don't worry! There is no way, at this time, that there will be a Member who complains that he was not given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u13	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u14	So I'm continuing, and I'm telling you that registrations that take place after the end of his speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u15	Madam President, there is a point of order! I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u16	Mr Venizelos, you will also take the floor, although you have spoken not in the number of times. Records are therefore made from the start of the debate on the articles until the end of the speech of the fourth in turn. In this regard, the rapporteurs are starting. Records made after the end of the speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u17	Don't humiliate the House! There is a point of order!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u18	Mr Venizelos, I am in the process of explaining the Rules of Procedure to Members!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u19	There's no procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u20	Do not be arrogant because you know the Rules of Procedure want to pre-empt all Members. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Sit down and, when I give you the floor, you will rise to speak both of you and of Mr. Theocharis. We are now at the beginning of the debate and we are setting out the procedure. It is something you must know with so many years of parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u21	I do not think the bill was passed in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u22	Records made after the end of the speech of the fourth speaker and until the conclusion of the prototypes of each article are valid only as a secondary provided for in paragraph 3 of Article 102. Right of dentistry in the Article has only those who have taken the lead and if they so request by the end of the phase of dentistry of each article. This is provided for in Rule 102(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The pleas in law referred to in Rule 103 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure are governed by Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose the following procedure, in accordance with what has been said yesterday about the need for the rapporteurs to be promoted, which is something that is already provided for in the debate on the subject. At first glossary, the Ministers are ahead of us. I therefore propose that the rapporteurs and the special speaker should speak on the articles so that Members may be proposed, in accordance with the same wishes as were made yesterday. I would like to inform the House that this wish is in any case satisfied by the Rules of Procedure for the debate on this subject. The remaining speakers will follow from the meeting in principle. Then they will speak of the articles that may be written later. You realize that time may not be long enough for all speeches. We'll see how many people will be registered by those who haven't spoken. I propose that the debate be concluded at 0.00 p.m. by vote. We shall therefore proceed to the procedure of speaking by the rapporteurs from each parliamentary group. I would ask the Services to give me the list of rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u23	I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u24	I request the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u25	Madam President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u26	Before entering the list of speakers, they are therefore asking for the floor, with the opportunity given by the Rules of Procedure, to be preceded and preferred, the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Brutsis, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Karathanasopoulos, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Matthews and the Parliamentary Representative of the Potami Mr Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u27	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u28	I also see Mr Hatzidakis calling for the floor on staff. Mr. Hatzidakis, you will have the floor next.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u29	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u30	Mr Meimarakis, too, is asking for the floor. I see that very easily those who spoke yesterday about the need for Members to be promoted now want to promote themselves. [[Applause]] The Rules of Procedure precede the President of the Parliamentary Group from the Parliamentary Representatives. I shall therefore give the floor to the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group. Mr Venizelos, you spoke in the first debate twice for thirty and fourteen minutes. We are now in the debate on the report. You are entitled to a new talk of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u31	Madam President, I sincerely regret that you are in breach of the Rules of Procedure of the House and why you are benefiting from parliamentary procedures. I do not think that this bill, which is really important to society, but also a good opportunity to discuss where the country is going, has been voted on at first. And it is your personal achievement that it has not been passed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House at first instance, while the bill has the prerequisite to vote unanimously or almost unanimously at first. You are destroying the possibilities of political consensus. While your role is to create a climate of conscientiousness and mildness, you systematically, organised and persistently fuel tensions, trigger conflicts. What happened before? You have called on Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and, as you do have a right as President of this House, you raised a matter of roll-call voting when it was found that the signatories to the proposal for a roll-call vote were not present at the time of the vote and that the vote could not take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u32	I put it before it was established, from the start. I'm correcting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u33	Then you came, after several minutes' interruption, and retreat, saying: 'I do not insist on a roll-call vote. I want all the parliamentary groups to return and make a normal, ongoing process in the first place." That's not the point. Your previous handling was not handling procedural. Politically, as President of Parliament, you wanted to be identified with the Golden Dawn. You wanted to put it under your authority and protection, as you have systematically been doing for weeks now, in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u34	Would you like to vote for PASOK even now, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u35	Don't interrupt me. You have sacrificed the great issue of consensus on the altar of your own personal, persistent despicability to collide with Golden Dawn. You can personally follow your fate and question Mr. Tsipras and lead the intra-party opposition to SYRIZA, but as the President of Parliament and as an institution of a state office, you must respect Parliament. You must respect democratic values and sensitivities and see to it that there is a climate of calm, mildness and consensus. What you are doing is a heavy and historically unforgivable undermine and deterioration of parliamentary institutions. You offer no service anywhere, neither in your party nor in the government nor in the parliament nor in the country. If you have any personal planning, you can serve him. But not at the expense of institutions and a national strategy. I urge you to understand that these behaviours, which are provocative, cannot be tolerated, not by opposition, but by all Parliament. You should have received the message from your own parliamentary majority, from the disagreements you make with your party Members, with the government officials who are diligently different from your own personal views. You have made Parliament a kind of personal honor. You are insulting the parliamentary procedure and parliamentary tradition, with the new 'institution' of the interviews, which the President of the Parliament is calling for initiatives to be discussed at the Conference of Presidents, between the parties, in the plenary session of this House. You think you can have personal, political priorities, independent of government. There is no system of ruling parliament. There are no two parallel power systems! One here with you and one with Mr. Tsipras at the Maximos Mansion with the Government. This is where we come to an unprecedented phenomenon of institutional ridicule and you are personally responsible and accountable for this situation. I call on you, in this regard, in a climate of calm and with clear questions under the Rules of Procedure, to repeat the vote as it fits in Parliament's style and not with an interrogational type of questions, what is voting on one party, what is voting on the other party, what is voting on the other party. This is where the Members vote, they vote consciously, they vote clearly. The parties are placed, whenever they consider that they should be placed. How the vote is justified and when it is allowed to be justified, the Rules of Procedure of the House say so. You're absolutely not respecting anything. Neither the Rules of Procedure nor the statute nor the traditions and you are exposed and I warn you - not on behalf of PASOK, I believe that I am expressing the whole of the Opposition - and I call on you to really consider and take advantage of the only opportunity you have, with a parliamentary term, at your age, to be President of the Greek Parliament and to sit in a seat that has glorified figures who have made history with weight and depth in Greek life. It is an opportunity for you to leave a print which is positive and not to act as a continuous stress factor. If the country here is not represented in a generous, generous way, with a view, how will society get a message that it has a view of democracy in the country and that we can have a strategy of uplifting? I think you are also undermining the word enthusiastic and proud that the government wants to empower. Because where we are going to focus on the debate on the national strategy, with disagreements, with conflicts, you come and throw light on the misery of procedural frictions and certain grey routes. The ones associated with the Golden Dawn and the democratic bow. Things are very serious. Very serious. And the omens existed and should have seen them, those who proposed you as the President of the Parliament. We have voted for you to understand that you are the President of the entire House, of all the parties, of all the Members. We voted on you because we wanted to strengthen the institution, not you personally. You did not appreciate that either. And I'm really sorry. You have also voted in favour of the vote on the opposition of most of the parties and Members of Parliament and you have obligations to us. Obligations which are too heavy and, unfortunately, I do not see you respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u36	As your address was completely personal, but because I am not allowed to answer you on personal grounds, I will speak only on facts and on a point of order. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Venizelo, you were the Deputy Prime Minister who had the Secretary-General, Mr. Baltako. And if I'm not mistaken, you were among those who refused the debate on the issues that you are prepared to be cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u37	Is that the answer of the President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u38	You have to decide whether it bothers you that on a point of order, the President of the Parliament guards what he considers to be a democratic process, even if the Group of Parliament or the parliamentary groups who proposed it disagrees with it. And I can assure you that what I think is a good application of the Rules of Procedure - that all Members in the process are, that is, I will apply what I think is right and I can hear the counter-problems, but I have not heard them in the field of democracy and procedure. On the other hand, you are inviting me to be President of the whole House when you think that what I decide is affecting some parliamentary groups. I can assure you that I will give you the floor beyond the time you deserve, as I always do, that I will safeguard your right to express yourself freely and vote freely and that I will do so for all of the Members. This is my obligation as President of the House. Otherwise, if you are looking forward to the statement that you voted in favour of the President saving treatment beyond the Rules of Procedure, you are badly anticipating it and no such assurance has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u39	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u40	Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u41	Madam President, please give me the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u42	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u43	Madam President, I will just say this to you: when the matter came up with Mr Baltako and his filmed conversation with Mr Cassidiaris, I asked the Prime Minister for his discharge immediately. And the Prime Minister then, Mr. Samaras, expelled him. I didn't ask for your expulsion. Someone is responsible for the fact that you are in this building. Honor your election from the House and the fact that the President of SYRIZA and Prime Minister Mr Tsipras has indicated to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u44	However, in accordance with Mr Baltaku's statements, he resigned and no one expelled him. Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u45	Madam President, I have been in Parliament for seven years. I am older than you, but I have never claimed, as far as my personal experience is concerned, to have such a disgraceful way of dealing with colleagues and also with the functioning of the institution I have been serving for seven years. I believe that historically it has never been recorded President of the House, who within two months has accumulated the anger and anger of almost the majority of Parliament. That is why you must make your self-criticism. It's no accident what happened just now. You're interrupting the process at the time the Prime Minister talks. You are not giving the floor to the Civic Opposition. Call the Golden Dawn presents. They're absent. You are judging by your theorem that the vote should be taken. You force parliamentarians to withdraw, in a critical vote on a critical bill, which you know was the position of the overwhelming majority of the parties. You go out and you do your consultation. You understand your mistake. You come in and make up for it, and you make it even worse. Instead of continuing the process, that is, that the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative should speak, as the Rules of Procedure say, and that the President of Potami and the Potami Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, who had asked for the floor and who were committed to giving them the floor, brutally interrupt the procedure and proceed to a roll-call vote on the bill. Where and where, Madam President? Finally, what we understand - and I understand personally - is this: who wants to strengthen a process in Parliament at the moment, in a bill in which, beyond the contradictions, you have met the positions of the parties? First of all, we agreed. Your word, your actions are absolutely bizarre. You separate Parliament, you make us go beyond every limit of normal reaction. Your actions are empirically abusive and unacceptable, you operate within a composer whenever you want. You changed the speaker's procedure yesterday. Finally, you are doing everything quite different from the normal one that should be, and this is at the expense of the parliamentary institutions, which you are gratuitously mocking at the end. It will be good, Madam President, to change all this and to get Parliament into a proper order and procedure. As far as the bill is concerned, because it is a crucial issue, don't think about saying that the New Democracy is not voting, because it's an end to yours. We did not enter the voting process. Our position at first is verified by everyone, we simply want the procedure to be followed, the procedure to be completed in principle, the parties to vote and then the articles. This is the process you have not completed. We want to tell you to turn the process back and start it back where you started ruining it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u46	Mr Papoutsis, if you consider that Parliament is benefiting, when votes are held with all the Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u47	Who all?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u48	...inside you invite me to return to normal, which was what happened in the previous period, that is, the vote at first should take place around 2.00 hours at midnight with six MPs in it, I assure you that we will not return to it, because that is not normal and it is not democratic. In connection with and with procedures for flying nights, I will also reply to you that in this normality and normality we will not return, no matter how much you want. And if there is a Minister - and I do not think there will be a Minister - who will attempt such a process, it will run counter to Parliament's refusal. From that point on, if you want your vote to be recorded for the debate at first reading - the same applies to PASOK, the same applies to the Potami - it will be counted for the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u49	What majority?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u50	I would therefore invite you to state whether you are in favour or against. It is incomprehensible, when you are invited to put and vote, to create this inconvenience on a subject on which you had my assurance. You requested the floor, Mr Brutsi, at approximately 13.30 p.m. Your Vice-President, Mr Kaklamanis, has informed me that you have a parliamentary group previously and that is why he asked to enter the seat after that. I would remind you that the vote at first was scheduled for 12 noon, and therefore at the time when you requested the floor it was obvious that you would speak at the next sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u51	You're making a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u52	So these kinds of impressions, and capitalisation, which ultimately do not honor those who are tormenting them, do not think that they provide a service to Civicism, which must here speak out and disagree and do what it judges, but not toys of impression about things that I invite you and I challenge you. Anyone who has a complaint that his word has been removed, that he has not spoken, that he has been denied the floor, to substantiate it, because you all have in particular the Anti-Population...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u53	Civic Opposition is complaining!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u54	It has a complaint, Madam President! That's what he told you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u55	Especially since the Opposition you have all spoken more than you are entitled to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u56	You have closed the debate in spite of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u57	...and so it will continue to happen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u58	You decided to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u59	...because the majority shouldn't oppress Minority, as it did at other times, when you were a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u60	Give me the floor to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u61	Mr Theocharis has the floor. I would also like to correct you - I do not know if you spoke on behalf of the President of the River - but the President of the River had not asked for the floor in the previous procedure. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. It provokes for a young MEP like me - it is my first time in this Parliament - fisherman...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u63	Not 'new', but 'new'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u64	Yeah, young, not young anymore. But I'd like to. So to a new Member like me, the situation in this Parliament is an impression, especially today. I have heard from previous parliamentarians that in Parliament and in parliamentary democracy the process is a good one. We agree, but we have levelled the substance only at the level of the process. This is the only thing that happens since the first session on the waiver of immunity of Mr Georgiadis to this day. It is not possible to get involved in such an endless debate on the proceedings, to violate the Rules of Procedure in many cases, to choose on other occasions that we have to follow the enthusiasm and that there should be a debate on German allowances, even though it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, while at other times, although Parliament's customs say otherwise, we must change immediately and follow the Rules of Procedure. What has happened today is unacceptable and does not need to be described. You have managed a party, Potami, which is a party of consensus, a party of composition and dialogue, to leave Parliament. We do not understand why the whole thing has been upset about the procedure. In order not to repeat them, we shall also add the violations of Rule 97(5) to the Rules of Procedure. The President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, Mr Theodorakis, has twice asked for the floor. You yourself told me, when I asked for the floor, that the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups always precede and, if the first time reasonably gave the Prime Minister his position, immediately thereafter he had to speak. You should not have stopped the procedure in a rush and started the roll-call vote. We welcomed the fact that you asked instantly for apologies from the House by taking your proposal for a roll-call vote and we returned. However, the process did not continue smoothly. Please find the way and methodology to have discussions in a climate of consensus. It is in the interests of both the Bureau and the House, but ultimately the government and the functioning of our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u65	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u66	Mr Majmarakis, former President of the Parliament, Mr Mathaiopoulos, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Philis, have called for the floor. We'll completely overthrow what you said yesterday. Here, Mr. Maymarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u67	Madam President, first of all I would like to say that you do not need the Bureau to reply to each speaker and to think that you should answer it. Listen to all of us and answer to all of us, because that is how we repeat ourselves, we eat time and it seems that we are dealing with the Bureau, and that is not our intention. At least I do not want to argue with you and I do not want to argue with the Bureau. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out two things. Firstly, since the voting time has not been respected, the process has continued and the Prime Minister has come here, and since it is also a bill that unites the political forces and at the same time makes us a speech by the Prime Minister saying to send a message of unifying outwards and inwards, it is not possible to split up and spoil the image of the House, while we all agree. You know, citizens know we disagree. Let us once again agree on something serious, something positive, which sends a message abroad as well. In my opinion, therefore, the President is responsible for ruining the climate because he did not allow the parliamentary representative to answer the Prime Minister or the Presidents of the parties to answer the Prime Minister, since the vote was not taken at 12 noon, as we said. I do not think that the Prime Minister did not want to hear the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Parliamentary Representatives and on the substance of the policy, since the debate was opened and it was an opportunity that we saw the Prime Minister raise some issues and ask him. Secondly, let me tell you, Madam President, that the Prime Minister has made a personal reference to Mr Hatzidakis. First of all, you must document or you must give the floor to Mr Hatzidakis. He told us something very heavy, that the OECD toolbox is not the OECD, but that Mr Hatzidakis intercepted the OECD seal. This has been said - it says - at the OECD General Assembly. So I want to know, because I support Mr Hatzidakis, if that is the case and the Prime Minister can document it, there is a question. If that is not the case, however, please ask him to come here to apologize. Let the Prime Minister come here! Secondly, it cannot invoke the agreement of 20 February and discuss the whole political system for the agreement of 20 February without having been tabled and seen. I do not ask for it to be debated and voted, which I should like to say to you that I hear on television, I listen to society, I listen to the House, I hear to the committees, I hear the Prime Minister invoking a text which I, at least, have not officially heard and I have not read it. All of us here have a five-page non-documented agreement signed, if he has signed, by the Minister of Finance. We are talking about this non-document. I tell you there are no asterisks, no footnotes. You, ladies and gentlemen, met two days as a parliamentary group and you discussed it. What were you talking about? What text did you discuss? In any case, the Prime Minister must tell us and give us the text. I have applied personally to the Prime Minister for the text to be filed. I didn't say vote or talk about it. Is there a text? Will you ever give it to us to know the country's commitments? Does this not bring about and does it not increase suspicion that something hides this text that is not submitted? We therefore welcome you, as I assume you, that this text is the five pages on which we have been given. All right, let's testify. I'm not asking to talk about it, at least in the first phase, but to have it. The Eurogroup doesn't have it. The German parliament is voting, from what I asked German colleagues, for approval to the Minister of Finance, not the text. This is where you don't want us to vote. Shouldn't we see it? And I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen, by treating this opportunity, I asked...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u68	Mr. Mairakis, I haven't given you any time. I'm putting you in the rest of four minutes now. It's ten minutes you're entitled to. I forgot to give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Madam President. I'm done. I would remind you that I asked you at the Conference of Presidents, without making it public, precisely because I do not believe that this is a matter of real dialogue or of a conflict between government and opposition on this matter, because that is not a matter of this kind. But we cannot talk about an upgrade of Parliament and we cannot have the text submitted and let us believe, as most of us believe, that there are asterisks and footnotes. Ladies and gentlemen, you're all on TV every day. Have you seen the text? I call upon a Member to tell us that he saw the text, the official, the signed by the Finance Minister of the country, who has committed the country. Who's seen it? Everyone has seen a five-page non-dollar paper. What are we here? Here we are Members, ladies and gentlemen, will we not know what has been committed to the country? Well, I believe, Madam President, that is a matter that united us. With procedural matters, with the responsibility of the President, he sent a false message. Secondly, I believe that the President-in-Office has spoken very well, is honoured by his presence, but we must also reply to him at the time when he spoke. If he wanted to leave, you had to give the floor. You arbitrarily. And don't tell me again that "you know, they become." And if they were - and they weren't - I'm telling you that you didn't come to make the same mistakes anyway. It's no excuse what was going on. Justification is what's going on today. And now we don't judge what was happening. He was judged in the elections on 25 January. So you're here, and we're judging what you're doing right now. And it can't be the answer "know who speaks", "look at what's going on", because we have answered you on several occasions and I don't think we can eat time. I think, however, that you should contribute to Parliament's positive image. And while the political forces were almost all positive about the bill, and while it was to get a message after the Prime Minister's speech that the whole House was sending this message abroad, we were able to dismantle it for formal and procedural reasons. So, because I have heard you, Madam President, say that the New Democracy has not voted for it, so I would like to say that I voted for it. And you cannot misinterpret our own assessments and opinions. And not to you, but there may also be wicked thoughts elsewhere that since a troika has said that it is a unilateral action, you can identify us with a political view that is not acceptable and that is not right from the point of view of the Bureau. It's not right at all! And I took the floor for that. To tell you, first of all, that we have been placed and still vote on it - even before the technical consultant, who said that it is a unilateral act - and that we still support the government in this process and in this negotiation, since it does not take us to the rocks, and since he explains to us the texts he signs. I therefore ask you to correct in the Minutes what you have arbitrarily said, that the New Democracy does not vote. Where did you get that conclusion from? The positions of the members of the party, like the parliamentary representative now, were all that we are voting on. So you will either expressly say this and it will be written in the Minutes or you will repeat the vote as never before. We don't have another solution. I too, Madam President, with all due respect and love, do not allow you to identify me with the view of saying: 'Ah, the technocrats have come and changed our minds'. We haven't changed our minds. And if there's someplace else these wicked thoughts, it's good to stay aside, at least for the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Meimarakis. I would just like to remind you, Mr Meymarakis, that we are continuing yesterday's debate in principle. If we did, as in other periods - which we do not - yesterday at 1: 00'-2: 00' in vacant seats, would we say: 'The bill is adopted? It shall be adopted by a majority.’
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u71	Madam President, I ask you to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u72	However, we did not do that, but there was a process in which even more speakers were given the opportunity to speak. However, the debate had to be concluded at first reading so that we could finally get into the articles. This does not legitimise some to think that they are lacking in speech, because you all know that yesterday there was about seven hours of discussion, when you know that parliamentary representatives can ask for the floor as a matter of priority. And Mr. Brutsis has asked only for the floor on a point of order today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u73	Wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u74	...there was a procedure at 10: 00 in the morning and the speech was made at 1:30, that is, an hour and a half after the scheduled...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u75	Lies, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u76	That's what the Services tell me you didn't talk yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u77	Who? Your predecessor knew that I had asked for the floor a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u78	Did you talk about the substance yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u79	Madam President, Mr. Metropolis yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u80	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u81	Well, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u82	Wait a minute, I'll give you the floor. No one's gonna complain that he didn't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u83	Well, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u84	Wait a minute, let's clarify the proceedings. Mr Majmarakis, the President, just so that there is no misinterpretation, invited the Members - and that is why I was looking at the groups - to express themselves. And since I see you all here, the Members of the New Democracy have remained unspeakable, they have neither said "NEI" nor "NOI" and I have invited you to sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u85	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u86	We were shouting and you weren't giving us the floor, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u87	On the benches, Madam President! Not too unscrupulous!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u88	However, following the position of your parliamentary representative, I have said to the New Democracy and to the PASOK and to the Potami, who have taken this position, that if they so request, they will be counted by the majority. Therefore, you do not ‘define open doors’. I understood your comment, as I understood where it is addressed. In fact, there have been differences of opinion yesterday, which give room for this interpretation which you have given. That is why it must all be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u89	You'd love to!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u90	You are not allowed by the Chair to make such a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three teachers - their attendants from the 8th High of Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will give the floor to those who have not spoken, and we have already mentioned them. It's Mr. Matthaopoulos and Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Hatzidakis has asked for the floor on staff, and then I will give the floor to those who deserve it and ask for it. Mr. Matthaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u92	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u93	Excuse me, Madam President, may I have the floor? There has been an incidental matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u94	No, I don't forgive you. I'll give you the floor when it's your turn. Mr. Matthaiopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u95	Madam President, that is not the case. Don't you know that the procedure is interrupted? That is why the incident arises in writing in order to stop the proceedings and to make a judgment of this House. Aren't you going to follow that either? Not even!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u96	Madam President, do I have the floor? Please zero the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u97	Mr. Matthaiopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u98	The parties to the Memorandum of Understanding, which levelled the Greek people, are at the forefront of the protests. The critics of the Golden Dawn, who, throughout our parliamentary presence, have accused us of insulting Parliament's image and the parliamentary institutions, by our behaviour. But I would like to say to the Members of these parties that they are very careful when they are calling for a proper application of the Rules of Procedure of the House. To be more specific. To the President of the PASOK Parliament, who called, among other things, for the faithful implementation of the laws, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and other provisions, I would like to remind you that if these regulations were actually implemented, then he would not have been able to speak through Parliament, but through the prisons, where there are illegal Members today, and the Chief of Golden Dawn. This ethics lecture he made at the Golden Dawn and the Bureau, to do so first to his own officials who have been convicted of economic crimes and scandals from which the Greek people have been impoverished. I therefore conclude that the leadership and the impertinent egoism of this man make him incapable of realising the real message of the elections on January 25th, that the PASOK was ranked last and the Golden Dawn became a third political force in the country as a regulator of the country's post-election developments. Whether he likes it or doesn't like it, that's the reality and he has to accept it. As far as the New Democracy's protesters are concerned, they are surnamed those who took the lead in the miserable political project that was set against the Golden Dawn. I do not need to speak with names, we have said several times from this Chamber who are consciously and systematically committed the inappropriate crime of the destruction of the Constitution, the riding of Greek justice and unjust detention on the basis of the collective responsibility of a legitimate political party. To these people, who are present today as guarantors of Parliament's orderly operation, I will answer that the Golden Dawn will be justified sooner or later and then they will understand that all this dirty game that has been set against us, yes, but it has done something to ensure that we have a fall in our percentages in the previous period, but eventually we are going to get a lot more strengthened and the party that has taken the lead in this construction will eventually collapse. In any case, I think it's a matter of time that this process will really end for the Golden Dawn, but, to God, it's not possible to hear morals lessons from those who called top judicial officers and said that innocent people should be confiscated. We cannot hear moral lessons from those who have acted in the most immoral manner, by abolishing popular sovereignty and by interpreting the Rules of Procedure of the House in good faith, in fact whether the Bureau objects to either the government or the legitimate request for Members to attend Parliament's Chamber to carry out their parliamentary duties. With regard to what we have heard from the previous President of this House, which I personally have expressed on several occasions, because to him I identify personal responsibilities for the indulgence of non-reputed Members of the Golden Dawn Parliament, I would remind you of this simple, constitutionally guaranteed right which Members of the Golden Dawn have to attend the parliamentary procedures. Whether we are talking about voting, whether we are talking about any debate or any minor or major parliamentary procedure, if the desire of the prisoners is expressed to be present here, is a state's duty to satisfy it. We cannot hear from such former institutions that there is no reason for Members to come because these parliamentary activities are not part of their professional obligations. But it is their duty and obligation, and that is why they were voted on by the Greek people, to be present here, since they express their desire. I would remind you, Madam President - and I refer to other colleagues, who are doing what they are deaf, because it is not possible to hear truths in this Chamber - that for many times the request for the turnout of the Members of the Golden Dawn and for the current procedure - which originally concerned the roll-call vote, later this request, as you have said, was not accepted in another form - was rejected. And how was she rejected? Telephoneedly, by a Korydallos prison prosecutor, who took to the Corydallus Prison Archive and informed by phone that Members of the third political force of the country are no reason to be present today in this Chamber. It appears that telephone interventions have become second in nature, with this practice alone, and the strings can be back-tracked. But you must finally understand that the Constitution is clear and unequivocal. It is quite clear that the House must operate with three hundred MPs. Yes, if anyone does not wish to attend this Chamber, it is his right. But if there is forceful violence, and even so ironically and so insultingly against people who represent five hundred thousand Greek citizens, then we are talking about the most persuasive practice which offends the parliamentary institutions, which offends you, Madam President, as President of Parliament, against all the procedures which have been laid down in the Greek Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. So, in order to summarise and return to the original request tabled by the Golden Dawn for a roll-call vote, we cannot be allowed to withdraw that right. It is provided for in the Rules of Procedure, regardless of whether the recasting - which is provided for, Madam President - is to do with the fact that the vote will take place on different terms, as you said at 12 noon. However, since this request is provided for, we are taking advantage of this opportunity and reintroducing it. We identify the essential problem at its base and not in vagueness and generalities, as we have heard before, in the fact that a prosecutor of prisons has made himself a regulator of the proper functioning of the House, the culture and democracy. The most paradoxical we will see in practice. If the roll-call vote had taken place, the names of the detainees would have been read, but they cannot support their vote in this parliamentary procedure and I do not care if it is important or insignificant. I, as a representative of the Golden Dawn, care about the fact that there is no word from people who have been voted, for the third consecutive time now, as a third political force in the country. We therefore believe that the House operates systematically with a defected composition and we have a change in the majority. Therefore, any result of the vote, any legislative initiative, any legislative work, proves in fact that it is inconsistent with the Constitution and as such we denounce it. I close, Madam President, with what you said earlier, or if I am not mistaken in my position yesterday on the same subject, and I am told that this matter will be for you and the next members of the government. In the medium term, what will emerge from today until the day you take a decision whether the Constitution will finally be applied, which we are asking for and nothing further than that, there are parliamentary procedures which are very important. The major issue of overdue debts and the hundred instalments will be discussed shortly. Questions will be discussed as to whether or not the Memorandum policies will continue. We will discuss issues that concern not only Golden Dawn, but also the Greek people, who, regardless of whether they voted for us or not, wants to hear our opinion. Unfortunately, however, there are some who hamper the proper functioning of the House. So I denounce and call on you as soon as possible to resolve this shameful phenomenon that is affecting democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u99	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u100	I would like to place myself on a point of order, not to use my time as a parliamentary representative, Madam President. So I'm not gonna need the 12 minutes you put me in. I would like to point out the following three issues: firstly, we are asking you once again to stop the continuing comments, which some of them also reach the limit of deception. Secondly, we also say to you and to anyone that the path of collapsing with the criminal neo-nazi organization of the Golden Dawn is slippery and dangerous. Thirdly, we regard as a JRC that you personally have a responsibility to divert the debate. And if you consider our appreciation to be very heavy, consider the fact that you have launched a smooth process so far and thus give an alibi to reproduce a sterile and senseless bipolar climate. Also, think that your attitude and your behaviour are declining and towards Mr Tsipras and the government. We do not believe that Mr Tsipras - and neither does the government need personally - to protect him by resorting to terrain, by blocking what is essentially what? Continue the debate and have the Prime Minister's response to the position of the other parties, either through the presidents or through the parliamentary representatives. It is a disgraceful behaviour and take into account the following: that in all this process you have done, two hours have been lost so far. The parties could have been placed and moved forward much more smoothly. Take all this into account and try for the next time to follow the procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I do not remember commenting on any position on the part of your party, and I therefore take your recommendation as a recommendation on the positions taken after the speech by Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Meimarakis. I would also like to tell you that the Bureau will not accept any political games on the back of democratic processes. Democracy is shielded when it protects its procedures, not when it grants what is unnegotiable values and guarantees, for whatever purpose. That's not a democracy. Democracy is strengthened when it is confirmed in practice. When she retreates, retreats, eventually loses her meaning and is eventually defeated exactly by her enemies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u102	In your attitude, you confirm my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u103	Mr Hatzidakis has the floor, who has asked to speak on behalf of his staff. Mr. Friend has also asked for the floor. Would you like to precede, Mr. Friend? Because I see you protest, please. If Mr. Hatzidakis allows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u104	I'm not complaining. I remind you of my presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u105	Would you excuse me, Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u106	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u107	Please talk to Mr. Hatzidakis first. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u108	The staff are related to the position of the Prime Minister earlier, who almost claimed that I had invented the OECD toolbox and I would like to reply here. I imagine you'll allow me to place myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u109	Sure. I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u110	Thank you. Madam President, I would like to congratulate - I am sure on behalf of the New Democracy - the Government for its choice to continue cooperation with the OECD. We congratulate her on this and encourage her to move forward in this direction. Of course we realise that until last year it was the SYRIZA party that said that OECD and OECD studies give us the rope as a country to hang and now it should justify this 180th turn. That is why the Prime Minister has obviously chosen here from the Step of Parliament to tell us that we have come up with the OECD study. For his bad luck, however, the study exists and is online. It's on the OECD website. On page 3, therefore, there is the foreword of Mr Guria of himself. Pages 6 and 7 refer to all OECD executives, one to one, which contributed to the preparation of the study. And Mr Guria himself came to Athens and the Ministry with me to present the study and spoke with bi-British words about the study. Now Mr Tsipras comes and tells us that he heard, they told him in Paris, that we imposed this study on the OECD. But then another subject is born. The OECD, if this is the case, is a body with limited liability, which is said and undone, which is imposed by governments on it in advance. So you should see why you are working with the OECD and why you are continuing this cooperation. They can't be both. In any case, I regret to say, Madam President, that I did not expect the Prime Minister of the country to expect a new man, who wants to tell us that he embodies hope, to come and say officially in a parliament of a European Union country all these things. I'm really sorry. In any case, our study is public. The OECD study for the government can be found wherever you want. At the same time, you accuse us of this study, take care of this agreement which you signed on 20 February to make it public. And after you make it public, then we talk about both the OECD and all the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u112	Madam President, will you give me the floor to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u113	Don't fight, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u114	I am struggling because the procedure goes ahead and you do not follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u115	Don't fight. A manuscript signed by Mr Voridis and Mr Georgiadis has been submitted to the Bureau. It is alleged that it raises an incidental issue. I shall then give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u116	The original signature to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u117	He doesn't have a signature. He just has the names. So we can't ask for authenticity, Mr. Tasoula. I shall give you the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Philis, and then I will give you the floor, after I tell you that you are setting it up in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u118	Shouldn't Mr. Friend hear first so that he could put himself on the intercept?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u119	Can I talk to you sometime, why is all my speech postponed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u120	Mr. Friend, I've given you the floor. If you choose to have a dialogue, it's your choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is consistently and unanimously opposed to the neo-fascist formula of the Golden Dawn, and we believe that under the Constitution and the law the criminal activity of this organisation must be judged. We also believe that democracy must be defended. All elements must be presented to justice, and matters must not be raised and sensitisations of sensitivities can be created at this stage in the work of justice. Secondly, it is clear that the speech of the Prime Minister, but also the debate in the House with the positions of all the parties, created a broad framework to give political expression to the Greek Parliament's maximum consensus on the issue of the humanitarian crisis and not just the humanitarian crisis. The maximum institutional consensus must be expressed, beyond the political consensus, in view of the critical meetings of the Greek Government and the Prime Minister of the day after tomorrow in the margins of the summit and on Monday in Berlin. It is of great importance that this climate of far-reaching policy, and - I dare say - a national consensus, which is expressed on the basis of the draft law to deal with the humanitarian crisis. However, it may - I repeat - have a more important political signalling at this critical moment to be expressed by the House today. I have listened carefully to the reports proposed by the former President of Parliament, Mr Meymarakis. If a statement from the New Democracy can be recorded in the Minutes in which it says that the bill is being voted at first, I think that is a solution that brings us out of other types of procedural proceedings here. If it is acceptable to the New Democracy, we as SYRIZA prefer it and I imagine that the Bureau will also have no objection to this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u122	The Bureau has proposed it, Mr Philly. You don't have to imagine. He suggested it and accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u123	Even better. Third matter. It is obvious, since we have and typically ensure this extensive institutional consensus of the House, that issues arise from unfortunate handling of all sides. No one is over-responsible here - to be clear, otherwise less - and no one personally expresses the original function of the House. There are institutional roles. No objections. However, the way in which we conduct ourselves - and I refer to all the wings and to all the sides - I do not take anyone out, with their rankings - is a way that little honours Parliament and gives a signal to the public that promotes what we call 'policy depreciation effect'. Others have expected people to see from us today, another consensus and consensus to have more effectiveness in dealing with major social and national problems and not procedural disputes. That is why - I think other aspects and not just SYRIZA and the Bureau - I think that the Conference of Presidents should discuss and not prejudge procedural issues. We have to agree on an elementary procedure based on the Rules of Procedure and where there are different interpretations, because, unfortunately, creative ambiguity seems to be emphasizing in many texts, there is a debate and a conclusion to the Conference of Presidents. Finally, we must not give the impression that Parliament's function is like a Gordian bond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Friend. I would invite all the Members and all the Members to remember that the three functions of democracy are distinct and therefore it is important to safeguard the separation of powers. Mr Vorides and Mr Georgiadis have tabled the following document, which reads: 'Incidentally, Rule 67 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure'. "The debate was closed without the list of speakers having been completed and without the consent of the House and without giving the floor to the opposition parties following the speech of the Prime Minister. The MPs Makis Vorides, Adonis Georgiadis.’ In accordance with Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, in particular, intervening issues such as what you are trying to put forward are: Firstly, a violation of a specific provision of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. You do not invoke any specific provision in the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, the reason for not complying with the order of agenda. You do not plead that the order of agenda should not be respected, given that there was a unanimous decision yesterday in this House. I don't know if you were or weren't. So yesterday the House unanimously agreed that yesterday's debate would continue today. Don't worry about him, Mr. Athanasios, because he won't hear!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u125	He doesn't want it, Madam President. Where the legislator so wishes, he clearly defines it and develops it orally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u126	So the House accepted that yesterday's debate would continue today until 12 p.m. We would conclude and hold a roll-call vote. So you have no objection to the agenda. Thirdly, we need the proposal to postpone the debate on any matter. You don't have a deferral proposal. And, fourthly, there is a need for the proposal to discuss other issues on the agenda. So, Mr Voridis and Mr Georgiadis, what you raise is not an incidental matter. However, I will give you the floor, even out of the Rules of Procedure for three minutes, but I would point out that we are not acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 67. However, I am giving you the floor because you have tabled this document and because I have explained to you why it has no force under the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, the order of things - to be familiar - is this and is defined by Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which you so love: Firstly, when an incidental issue arises, the debate on this is preceded by the debate and the vote on the main issue. This means that the debate is suspended at that time to consider the incident. Secondly, there is no point in answering before you hear, because otherwise you are replacing this House in its judgment, which you often do. The incident arises from the one who puts it, is raised in the judgement of this House and the House decides whether there is or is not there. Otherwise, it wouldn't make any sense to put it. We'd stay in what the president says. Of course we could leave and let you do the procedure yourself. Thirdly, you say that we do not invoke a specific provision. If there is an infringement of an order from the report of the specific circumstances raised in this matter, there is an incidental matter. In this case, it is the provision which lays down how the debate is to be closed and when the vote begins. This is the provision and it is clear what this report suggests, obviously the non-referencing of this article does not create a coma. This is also known to you by a number of provisions. But we are actually moving on to the point, which, Madam President, is very simple. You have decided that there will be an end to a debate on an issue that all the wings say should be synthetic and unified. A debate had to be closed by saying that "it has been rolled out on a roll-call vote". The list of applicants for the roll-call vote was given and were not present. Unreservedly present, the debate should continue, since there is no reason to stop for roll-call vote. You say - do not interrupt me - 'I believe that there should be a roll-call vote.' Now, why did you judge it and how it all happened, I don't know. That certainly caused the menin. But the major thing is this: has it happened before, ladies and gentlemen, in Parliament, that the Prime Minister should be here to speak of an important bill, that the Civic Opposition, the opposition parties, should not speak about the Prime Minister's speech? Can the debate be declared obscured, brought about by this reason an inconvenience and a withdrawal from the House? To return to the resumption of the meeting, after the adjournment, to ask the parties provocatively and inevitably 'what are you going to vote', to be blackmailed so that the major issue is not raised? What's that? We will not come to the Chamber, Madam President, to hear the Prime Minister's speech, to applaud and then leave. That's not how it's gonna happen. There will be normal parliamentary debate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the question for us - and I say it for my fellow Members, to put them on the incident - is that we have to accept the incident, to consider the vote that has been taken unborn. Parliamentary representatives will be placed on the issues of the bill and a vote will then be taken. If this series is not complied with, then there is a brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure and of the most central right of speech and of the equivalent, given in the Civic Opposition. We will not make that tolerable. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u128	Mr Vorides, as I have said, what you have to say does not fall within the meaning of the incident. The feeling of the Bureau was that, following the proposal made by the Bureau, adopted by the former President of Parliament, Mr Meimarakis, who was also kind enough to say that he voted for it - he made a personal roll-call vote - the position of the Potamian Parliamentary Group which accepted it, the position of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, who accepted it, understood that we are all accepting it and thus interpreting the feelings of this House. That is the possibility of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not disgusting, but I'm interpreting the feelings of this House. I therefore understood that the House accepts this solution, that it prefers to register and list the majority of any parliamentary group that wishes it and that during the vote its position was not clear. If that does not cover you - why you are now different from what Parliamentary spokesman Mr Brutsis and the former President of Parliament, Mr Meimarakis - please have the opportunity and personally to say whether you are voting for or voting against the bill. I give you this possibility. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u129	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u130	For the vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u131	I am asking for the floor for what I have told you about the incident. I have nothing more to say. There has been an incident, Madam President. There is a procedure for the incident.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u132	I gave you the floor to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u133	You don't understand, I think. You won't tell me what to do. You don't understand. You're messing with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u134	Totally!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u135	Here we are MPs and you are insulting all Members! You don't understand. You're all hurting us! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You don't harm the New Democracy or me, you're harming us all with this behaviour. So there has been an incidental issue. Read the Rules of Procedure, to see the procedure, if you don't know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u136	What you're putting is not a step in the right direction. You're asking to vote again. That's what you're asking. I'm telling you she's born. Even for you who didn't vote, unless you want to vote for something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u137	You're not deciding for yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u138	He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u139	You're not deciding for yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u140	Sit down, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u141	The parties weren't placed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u142	The parties were placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u143	In the House, they are the MPs, they are not the President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u144	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u145	Madam President, those of the Greeks, who are poor or not, are following the meeting what they might think when they hear the colleagues of former co-population who, a little while ago, wanted to make them a tutor of what they would do to them? And did they say to Mr Venizelos 'will you vote unilaterally'? After all, you know that very well, the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy has been placed in public and said: 'I will not vote'. Perhaps, Madam President, there should have been a roll-call vote. Proof of the procedure. The vote, however, took place. For those who were young - when they kept the pelvics, which were in other places, out of here - I mention that we happened to be here - it was not by the vote of the people - and speakers were here when Athanasios Tsaldaris chaired. What did he say? ‘Most of them have obviously been raised.’ Who does not remember this phrase by the President, who just mentioned it - and rightly so - Mr Venizelos? Mercy to that hypocrisy! Mercy! From there on, no one can think that the vote was not completed at first. Madam President, you know, today some people want to hide in all these procedural procedures. But they don't fool anyone. They may be afflicting the House. But they are not fooling anyone, because they have unfortunately taken - and I am really sorry - a position. Besides, joy won't leave them! He showed who they were applauding and who they were applauding, on what points, the adversary of the voice of foreigners, the one who today is recorded on all the front pages, that we have no right here to vote as the people have told us. As the Prime Minister said, it is an impotent challenge, which is being made in this House today, to do what some people have done, who are now coming to ask for the floor. What did they do? They voted for doses and then they got them back. They think we've already forgotten and came to tell us today 'Look out for you to take them back', why do they think everyone can accept what they have received, the humiliation? We heard the OECD apology. What should they tell us? Don't you remember what the Minister of Justice of the Government of Samara - Venizelou, the DMAR coming from, on a TV broadcast in the morning? "The foreign bills are ready for us," he said to Mr. Papadakis. The Minister of Justice - remember, I imagine - your predecessor, Mr. Athanasios! 'And if', he says, 'we don't like it, we're stuck on the neck.' And no one quit! They thought it all was perfectly normal here. So, today all the arguments developed were to get them back, because we will do very great harm, because there will be a conflict, there will be a break, there will be a credit event. We must take them back, because otherwise they are unilateral actions, they have also been told in the Chamber, but they are said to be, and where they are, in the channels that have been holding them all these years. Madam President, Mr Voridis wanted to remind us and the Greeks, who are now being followed by us, that there were no majority meetings and that there were serious bills, not for the poor and weak, as today - for which we should not be mitigating - but for the few. And they know and let us not be provoked. What'd he say? What if the Prime Minister closes? Uh, of course, isn't the Prime Minister closing? You want to talk about the dominating meetings? Which one of you doesn't remember - whether he's young in this House or he has twenty-five years that I have - what is customary about? Let the Greeks bear in mind as many times as they saw all the Prime Ministers. How did the conversation close? Did the conversation go on again? Wasn't he closing with the vote? Didn't he close with the Prime Minister's speech? What else happened today? Please do not cause us any more, Madam President! If they want to hide behind their fingers, they can't hide. It's gonna be a long time. Because now the dominance has come to meet ridiculousness, because that is what it is. All these terminologys and tricks go back to the subject we are discussing today. Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u146	Aren't you overdoing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u147	I didn't hear what you said, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u148	Aren't you overdoing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u149	What point? When you say we have to do what strangers want, what's it called in Greek? Mr. Butiss said it was voluntary. Tell us, Mr. Panayotopoulos, what's his name?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u150	The fairy tale's evolving.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u151	Your grandchildren will tell you next generations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u152	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u153	To you, shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u154	We thank the Parliamentary Representative of Independent Greeks. The President-in-Office's judgement is that there is no way forward. However, as Mr Voridis has been questioned, I shall put it in the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore ask the cameras in the Chamber to show why we will not do what has been done in other proceedings, to register others in the Chamber, and to do so by the President. So show the cameras in the Chamber and please those who believe that there is an incidental issue to rise. [[At this point, the Members of the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection raise their questions.]] Eighteen MPs were raised in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u155	You didn't count Mrs. Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u156	I count Mrs. Manolaku as well. A total of eighteen MPs from the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami and the Communist Party were thus raised. It is clear that eighteen Members do not constitute a majority, and therefore the request for the intervention, which was in any event unfounded, is rejected. Finally, now at only four or five, after a two-hour procedural debate by those who yesterday said that we need to propose the rapporteurs, we will enter the rapporteurs. I call on SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Kostas Zacharia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u157	Would you give me the floor? I've been asking for it for an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u158	Mr. Kegeroglu, you are the rapporteur for the seventh party. You'll speak seventh. PASOK's seventh in a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u159	We're not talking about the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u160	Now SYRIZA's rapporteur is talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u161	I've been asking for the floor for an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u162	You don't have the floor. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u163	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u164	You'll speak seventh...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u165	You let us talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u166	You'll speak seventh in your turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u167	You let us talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u168	Mr. Zacharias precedes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u169	It doesn't lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u170	...the following is followed by Mr. Panayotopoulos, then Mr. Panayotarus...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u171	The procedure is in principle ahead of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u172	...after Mrs. Lyberaki, then Mrs. Manolakou, then Mr. Haikalis and then Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u173	Understand? The procedure is in principle ahead of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u174	You're seventh. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u175	Understand? I raise my hand an hour to talk. Would you give me the floor to speak? Are you all right? Are you tired and need to rest? Please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u176	You don't have the floor. At Step is Mr. Zacharias. You're PASOK rapporteur, you're seventh. You can't talk first. The order is determined on the basis of the parliamentary order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u177	You're a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u178	You will speak seventh, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u179	You're a disgrace. You're comin'!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u180	The speaker is already in Stepma and I want to tell you that you are being exposed. I could take disciplinary action.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u181	You're out there. Three hours now you're out...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u182	I could take disciplinary action. I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u183	...and you haven't figured it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u184	Calm down. Get out of the Hall. Get out of the room to calm down and you'll come and talk seventh.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u185	Will you give me the floor to place me in the first place?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u186	Mr. Zechariah, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u188	He didn't ask what we're voting for!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u189	Please, the President gave me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u190	What have they written?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u191	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u192	I respect that colleague, but he gave me the floor, Mr Kryiazidis. Please. Please. I need to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u193	Can you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u194	Sir, I'm not making a decision. It is up to the Bureau to decide. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u195	Can you give me the floor, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u196	Madam President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u197	Can you give me the floor, Madam President? I'm requesting the floor for an hour now. Don't you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u198	I'm revoking you to class, Mr. Kegeroglu. Have a seat!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u199	Can you expel me? It's not enough for the revocation! Can you expel me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u200	Are you inviting the Bureau to expel you from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u202	I won't expel you from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u203	Aren't you expelling me? Then you can't squeeze me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u204	I will give you the opportunity to restore the dignity and self-respect that goes to the Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u205	Your purpose was from the outset not to get the bill unanimously! That was your cause!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u206	Sit down and you'll talk seventh. Come on, Mr. Zacharia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u208	Can you tell us what we voted to know, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u209	In this important draft law on the articles, I would like to note...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u210	Was there a party that was asked? Was there a party she voted for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u211	We've put up with you! Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u212	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u213	Mr. Drivelega, sit down! I'm revoking you to class! Sit down, Mr. Drivelega!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u214	What we voted to ask from the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u215	You don't have the floor. Sit down and let the speaker speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u216	What did we vote for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u217	Sit down! Don't you know what you voted for? You ask the Bureau what you voted for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u219	You interrupt to ask what you voted on? You don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u220	What did you write?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u221	I'll give you the floor later when it's your turn. If you don't know what you voted for, find out and let us know. Come on, Mr. Zacharia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, let us go back to the bill. It's really great. It's the first bill to be passed by the new government. It's the first bill. It is important and gives a universal answer to important problems that concern even the nomadic article of the Constitution, already two days now that some are intervening and questioning the Greek Parliament's ability to give answers, to vote for bills and to be sovereign within his country. So, speaking on articles, I would like to say that I distinguish between the three chapters, which are distinguished by the title: the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the government bodies for the fight against corruption and the restructuring of the government's institutions and the other urgent provisions, with measures concerning the indirect or indirect and the first two chapters. The articles on the humanitarian crisis, namely Articles 1 to 5, have been discussed in detail, I believe, and in plenary. However, a number of questions have been raised on which we can put ourselves. One of these issues is the determination of the limits and criteria of extreme poverty, which I believe are not expressly mentioned in the articles of the bill, but it is clear that they will be delimited by the joint ministerial decision, which will, moreover, be effective. I would like to say here that extremist poverty really is recognised by many, it cannot be precisely defined. On the other hand, it is neither a statistical matter nor a numerical nor a financial issue, if you wish. It is a matter of political imprinting and, I think, it is also expressed in the articles of the bill and in the debate that has taken place and will of course be defined by the joint ministerial decision. Another issue raised by many colleagues is the valuation - I believe the policy at this stage - of the minimum guaranteed income, which has just begun to apply for a short time. I think that this has been the answer. The institution will be assessed, its course will be assessed, which is applied to a very small geographical part, without clearly defined criteria. The criteria applied and the cities selected cannot be said to have been clearly defined. Are they the ones who were most affected by the social crisis? Are they the ones who have layers of workers who need to be careful? Are these cities, which reflect Greek society? It has not been clearly identified, which is why I believe that an ex-post evaluation is needed. On the other hand, it is also the huge budgetary issue that there is no provision either in the budget or in the commitment of European funds to continue this institution. So the government must find and determine these resources so that they can continue and, of course, we can also discuss the substance of the minimum guaranteed income in the sense that the sums given to them cannot in any way question the resources allocated mainly to supporting work in our country. I would just like to point out, Minister, that Article 1, and I propose it as a legislative improvement, in order to create a sense of recognition of social demands which have a solid basis for being included in the beneficiaries of the free supply of electricity and the patients whose treatment requires electricity connection. It could be in the joint ministerial decision, of course, but I think that their imprinting in the bill, because it has also been discussed with the institutions and a lot of Members have been mentioned, would be better. Article 4 refers to the legislative improvements made by the Minister, the synergies of social programmes and actions along with current regulations. It is something that covers us and so all the programmes, all the actions can be a network of social support and solidarity, which will also be decisive and active. However, it has been mentioned here by many of the previous governments' colleagues and actions with the introduction of PPC's social domestic tariffs and municipal committees, which have faced some power cuts. If they were - retrospectively, as we see them - effective, they would have been covered and not, as we have seen, would have done - I do not know the exact number, but there was indeed, dramatically, we recorded it, with deaths, and the power cut. The social tariff is currently maintained, with the discount it provides, automatically enters the beneficiaries regulated by the first article directly on the social domestic tariff for their extra consumption or if they regulate their debts and discuss them. With the regulation without paying them back, they can enter the social household tariff. As for the municipal committees that have actually done a project - the number of eight thousand reunifications has also been mentioned - it is clear that there are much more needs and that these are addressing this bill. I hope that specialisation with the joint ministerial decision of the co-legislators will not be bureaucratic, will be immediate and will allow this part of the humanitarian crisis bill to be implemented and immediately relieved of those in need. As regards the second chapter on corruption, in Articles 6 to 15, there was really a debate on whether economic crime is part of these articles on corruption. I think it is abrupt or, in any case, one can discuss the cause and cause. But it is obvious that corruption and economic crime are going together. It is under the jurisdiction of the Minister of State for Corruption and for Economic Crime, and it can coordinate through the General Secretariat its response. The explanations were given in Article 10 and therefore the independence of justice and, in particular, the administrative dimension between the Government and the judiciary is truly guaranteed. There is therefore no problem in voting for it. With regard to Article 15 and the debate on the national coordinator, we have been told by the national coordinator, Mr Tendea himself, that he has certain reservations about the abolition of the principle of technocratic and independent nature, as he has today, and on the prevention of corruption not included in the articles of the draft law that we are debating. On the other hand, I would like to note that the fight against corruption is a top political commitment for our Government. It is clear that no intervention will be made in the independence of the authorities or judicial authorities in this regard. I believe that the twin set up by the Minister of State and General Secretariat adequately complements the National Coordinator Authority and, on the other hand, can actually express the content that Mr Tendes has given in the prevention of compliance with legislation, the strengthening of intermediate institutions and institutions, education in the sense of society education, vocational training and communication programmes for workers, as well as the dissemination of information in society. I believe there is no problem in this. Therefore, the national coordinator may be abolished without any problems in dealing with corruption. I would like to point out that in the part concerning the reorganisation of the governmental bodies, with Article 24, which says that voluntary ministers from the ministers will be distinguished scientists or specialists who will help voluntarily and freely the government institutions, there is no problem either in the process of their employment. They don't have to be paid for it, of course. They're volunteers. But, on the other hand, they have their jobs, their work, their work. I shall speak directly about the ministerial amendments, some of which have been analysed by the ministers. The first amendment, number 4 and number 4, concerns the feeding and feeding of foreign immigrants who remain in detention centres. We need to deal with it immediately. The tender procedures have not expired, and that is why the money is given by a code from the Greek Police, which is for prisoners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some time, Madam President. This is extended until these tender procedures can be completed. However, the problem must be addressed immediately, because the food of the detainees has actually been very degraded and I think it is a disgrace to the Greek society. On the other hand, I believe that the statements made by the former Minister for Civil Protection and the comparison made between the diet provided for in the amendment and the arrangements of our humanitarian crisis bill, are not in the right direction and should not be made. As regards the amendment on the arrangements for payment of tax debts, I would like to say that they are supplemented tomorrow and with the draft bill. On the other hand, the reimbursement of the financial resources of the Financial Stability Fund is a direct need and a budget, as is the use of the funds of the legal entities governed by public law and the insurers, without being breached - and there is a commitment to this in the amendment - neither the rights nor the same funds from the insurance funds and legal persons. For workers from the Maritime Reconstruction Zone of Perama and Elefsina and EBRD scientists, lawyers and health, it is foreseen that they should be included in the provisions of Article 30 for an extension, without pre-conditions for insurance, because they really have no sign of workers, young scientists do not have a job at this time, and they must be covered in health. On the amendment to the National Electronic Procurement System - the Minister spoke to us earlier - I think that it really needs to be extended by the end of the year and it must be implemented, because only in this way can there be reliable monitoring of public procurement. For NERIT and the arrangements will be submitted. On the other hand, the supervisory board is withdrawn. It is a government's choice that there should only be a board of directors and we agree. I conclude with the Ministerial Amendment for the Assistant Doctors, which provides for an extension - and it is necessary at the moment to support the operation of the National Health System with regard to both hospitals and primary health care. It breaks down the national system. There is a functional collapse, because indeed the doctors who work have reached their limits, not only the operating limits, but also the age limits. We have to support her. Finally, there are two amendments which I would like to put forward. The one - late, I put it, but the Attica Region has recommended it to the bodies - provides that the regions may also conclude programme contracts with public enterprises and public utility organisations to implement social policy actions. The amendment - with which I agree - to unify the wage system of workers in the centres for the prevention of dependency in the context of normalisation of the functioning of these structures. To conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the vote on the bill, and on its principle and articles, will strengthen our democratic ties, strengthen the democracy and sovereignty of the country, close the mouth either inside the country or abroad, what can call our national sovereignty into question. That is why we must decisively vote on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Zacharia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the Elementary School of Kos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform you that a document entitled 'Protest to vote' has been tabled to the Bureau on the Kostellos statements during the debate in the House on the humanitarian crisis bill'. It contains the following contents: "We Members of the Greek Parliament complain about the statements by Declan Costello, Director of Financial Affairs of the Commission, which were made known to us during the plenary session of the Parliament on 17 March 2015 on the resolution on the humanitarian crisis. The House is the leading institution of expression of popular will and is an insult to all of us any intervention in our legislative work, coming from institutions that have not been elected by the Greek people." Mrs Baguea proposes that this House vote on this protest. I, too, recommend that this House vote on this protest. We shall therefore put it to the vote during the vote at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u224	The rapporteur, Mr Panagiotopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u225	Thank you, Madam President. All of you are now wondering whether I will now start to sit down, whether the wording of Article 10 covers us or whether we are covered by the legislative improvement of Mr Skourletis who is now speaking about distinguished scientists and not about the IP or IC or unskilled as regards the voluntary advisers who will be recruited at the Prime Minister's offices to work voluntarily, but who will be rewarded. Also, you may wonder whether I will also be placed for other similar purposes, such as Article 3 of the bill concerning the feeding allowance, the discount coupon or anything else that will cover a hundred seventy thousand households or a hundred fifty - three thousand households. Is that what you expect from me now to analyse in front of all the things that have taken place so far? Is that what you expect me to analyse in front of this deluge of parliamentary procedure, in which the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative was not given a prior right to speak, as is the right for us to express our opinion? Because the President, while we were native, saw us unspeakable! We were running underneath the ground and in her judgment we were irreversible! So we must now start putting ourselves on the articles. Because I have the impression that by saying that we are voting for the bill, we went to "loss the soup". What should be done? Would it be preferable for some in here to say that we do not vote at first? Would it be preferable to do them a favor and prove once again the enemies of society? But most of the things described, we started them. And we have gladly agreed to vote on this bill at first, since we believe that the measures help and provide relief in a part of society. It may not be such a large part of society as the original designs were, but it is a relief. And that's something we're supporting. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Or did this plan have to be served, which gives us the image of the friends of the Germans, the troika, that is, the institutions, namely the Brussels Group - that is, choose and take - or take - the nations of Greece and the fact that we come and say 'yes' in the first place, how should we do it, go against this attempt to create an impression? But we had warned Mr Kostellos about the debate in the committee. Do you remember that? Well, then, Minister, I told you that if you are not more specific in the way you cost, you will have problems with the assessors. I told you! He's here! You got it! Behold! And that was not because we offered bad services at home, but because you were unclear about costing this bill. And if you were not unclear and gave an assessment of 200,000, Mr Varoufakis came by his letter to the Eurogroup and invoked other information. Perhaps he did not know, perhaps it had not been the case. However, the impression has arisen to them there that we here - I mean those who decide on the government - do not know the figures well. And anyway, this negotiation - say it what you want, but trading is - focuses on numbers. There's no other way. Creative ambiguity helps those who want to pressure us and not us who want to get away from this pressure. And to avoid forgetting it, the Parliamentary Representative of Independent Greeks spoke directly about donors. I tried, attempted, lifted my hand to take the floor on staff, but I was not given it, and I have to make it clear. I was a member of the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, which from March 2013 until today - of course long before today, since the last elections that the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Labour has handed over - we have said a very clear not least in the effort of assessors, the troika - tell them as you like anyway - to change the regime on collective redundancies. We refused, from the first to the political leadership of the then Ministry of Labour and we continued to do so as long as the life of the previous government lasted. This, Mr. Nicolopoulos, - you've gone - was a no. That was a result of a negotiation. That was a negative attitude to what they asked us to do and to the pressures they put on us. We were unable to agree on everything, but no one can question that we did not say yes to everything. It was an example of a tangible not from the place that Mr Nikolaopoulos later a week felt it appropriate to leave the Ministry of Labour and I succeeded him. Now, from there on, as far as the procedure and the friendly nature of the Members are concerned. It is also about you, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. I have the feeling here that we are in a parliamentary procedural purgatory, not 'cold' MPs, the memorialists, for all of us. Yesterday, on 23.10., five hours after the opening of the sitting had taken the floor six times as members of the government and five Members of parliament. Is that the 'protecting Members'? What happened today? How many listings have they spoken so far? No one from where the process was stopped to talk to the Prime Minister, of course, or from ten o'clock in the morning. Look, do you think this is just about us, the "coupled up of the memorial"? It's all about us. It's your business, too! Fifty-five. How many of you are here? You think you're gonna talk? They will start after a while to speak again because the system is this at the moment. We send five, six ministers to each process. It's the first bill! It's a consensual bill, no matter where we disagree! This is where we all consent! We are voting for it at first, although we have been deprived of the right to say so at a time when we had to. We were dealing with other things at the time! What about the hard stuff? What if tomorrow the agreement signed by the government comes to Parliament for discussion? There will not be a consensual climate, perhaps in your own bays, internally, not just as far as Parliament is concerned. What's gonna happen then? Is that how we're going to keep going? That's not how it's done. I'm telling you. We have every good intention of supporting a bill that gives relief to vulnerable groups. We have made it very clear at every stage of the procedure so far. We disagree on many of the articles. We agreed and voted in favour of the first part. We disagreed and voted against the second part. We have explained our objections in depth - I think - and I am very much aware in the debate so far. We agreed on all three articles in the third part. First of all, I would like to ask the President which of all is acceptable. There are also amendments which have nothing to do with what the bill says. We cannot support the amendments - for example - of the Ministry of Health which regulate certain loose ends in the recruitment and extension of subsidiary doctors contracts. Of course we support this. As we are of course voting in favour of the amendment by the Ministry of Labour which extends the health care regime to other social groups which have also been affected by the consequences of the crisis. So we say yes to cover for lawyers, engineers, all workers in the ship repair zone and Elefsina shipyards, etc. From there on, we need a little time to see what you are accepting, Madam President. Do you accept, for example, the amendment relating to NERIT? Is it so related to the humanitarian crisis or to government reform? You could accept the amendment by the Ministry of Interior to create a new special secretariat on the Presidency. I will not go into the essence of this provision, but I cannot say that it is not relevant to the organization - I would say - of the administration, because the government is not the Presidency of the Republic. We will also support the amendment to re-definition the food service framework for third-country nationals who are temporarily staying in the pre-repeal detention centres of the Greek Police. This is an extension of the contract. That makes sense. These are unfinished arrangements. We have no reason to accept them, but from there on we will wait until the end of the process to see exactly how we will be placed. In any case, however, ladies and gentlemen, from today we must all be very concerned about the continuation of the procedure here. I really didn't expect to get to this point and you're sure I'm a man who's not easily upset. I'm upset today. Half of the House has been in a state of nervous crisis, if not all, by these manipulations. And we're talking about a consensual procedure. The process of voting for a bill of social benefit has been blown into the air today - in a relative part of it in any event - which would be supported by all of Parliament's wings. And we are sitting here today and talking about all sorts of procedural, parliamentary and sub-definition regulations, and we are making the point out that "they cannot agree to a bill that actually gives some breath to a part of society that needs them." Okay, I understand the political dispute. You will say: 'What did you do when you were?' We will say: 'We did - and we prove it - things that you come and complement policies - and you are doing very well to develop them and improve them, Minister. We are at your disposal to help. We have discussed this very extensively so far, but from there on it is other issues. The major issue is how to operate in the House from now on, when the difficult ones come, because the difficult ones will come. We also tried to help in the negotiation process. We told you: 'You are costing in particular so that we do not have any confusion' - 'good money' - I said in the debate in committee at the time - those who will probably come in bad faith or blackmail to raise some pressure on which we are giving them the right to escalate it with ambiguities and omissions. And it's not a matter of memorial or antimony, docologists or overpatriots. It's a point of order. So let us stick to the procedures. As I said in the debate on the articles, we will stand up and stand up for each and every right thing, in danger of losing the street, because I do not know today what the impression will be if we seem to be defying the objections to unilateral actions and defending the bill. But the question is how to operate from now on. We will support the right ones, we will highlight the mistakes, we will vary where we need to, above all, put the interests of the country, which has come - and as long as the time is right, because time is running and the pressure is growing - in a difficult, very difficult position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u226	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u227	Do you want time for a speech or a small intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u228	Not for a speech, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u229	Just please, Mr Voutsi, because I have measured that there are sixty colleagues who are still speaking, plus the special speakers, plus the parliamentary representatives, and I have seen how many minutes they need, we are over 0.30', 1.00' to speak. You have the floor, but I would ask you to have small intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u230	Yes, Mr President, I said that neither in the first phase nor now will I speak for a speech. On behalf of the Government, on the occasion of the relocation in a positive direction which has been carried out by the international community, through the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Moscovici, in connection with so-called unilateral actions and Grexit, etc. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I do not mean recently, but since yesterday's debate - I would like to point out that this debate of the House which was mature - on the fundamentals I mean issues and not the formal and procedural arguments which have unfortunately been overtaken by time - and the catalytic speech and messages sent by the Prime Minister, with the broad consensus reached in the first vote, show a positive environment for the political negotiation which is on the table and for the further implementation of the agreement by voting and the other drafts that will implement the government's programming declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u231	Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor. By the time Mr Panayotaros comes up, I would like to make it clear that for ethical reasons, as I know he is an old MEP, who is in the Bureau's seats, I did not get up on the point raised by Mr Voridis. If I was in the Chairs down, however, it is obvious that I have the view of my party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard a lot in this Chamber before, there have been many tensions. The president of PASOK gave a speech and said a lot of interesting things. I have noted some of them, such as 'you have made the House an honorary staff'. You have probably made it your personal honour and wish within Parliament that only those who agree with you, because whoever disagrees with you politically, send him with alpha or beta way to prison. You have spoken of the achievements of the institutions and of institutional ridicule. Who's talking about institutional ridicule? The inspiration of the colour ballots in the 1985 presidential election - the older ones remember. When today's applause yelled at you, they cried, they took the call, they left, and they did things. But, you see, it's time to shoot, and as long as the weather goes, it turns out that the two major parties that govern the country from 1974 to early were the two sides of the same currency and nothing else. We have heard that Members are voting in a conscious way here. To some Members, however, to a party leader, they are not even allowed to vote because that is how some have decided. You have often said, like other speakers, that 'the Rules of Procedure of the House', but always the Rules of Procedure refer them to him, you use him, you apply him, a card, whenever you want. Because Parliament's Rules of Procedure provide for the House of Three hundred and not the two hundred and ninety-four, because that is how it is to you. You are expressing the whole of the counterpopulation. We do not know whether you are expressing the whole of the Opposition, but certainly your strong applause was aggregation of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. That is what it says a lot about some who, for many years, voted for one party or another and thought that they were giving races and going by saying. You said that the country should be expressed in a generous and generous way, just like you who have literally leveled the institutions, and which some of you are covering either the submarines' business or other assumptions, such as the Lagard list you didn't know where, how, when, and what happened. As in the case of when you were Minister of National Defence, who had classified documents in your personal drawer, as if the documents and any papers are relevant to that state, this country can do as you wish. You also urged the President of Parliament to be President of all Members except Golden Dawn. This is what you want and every time you try to do or impose it. We have also heard comments about the Baltaku video, on the other hand, but no one is talking about the tank. What does this Baltaku video say? What does this Baltaku video, which proves to be a pretext for the construction of the Golden Dawn by specific politicians and offenders? Hello, Mr. Athanasios! What are you doing? Are you all right? Because you're a protagonist in the Baltaku video! And the Baltaku video will come out. And the Baltaku video is legal. And we'll see what you say. And it will break the abscess, Mr. Athanasios. Remember that, because you'll be accused.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u233	No personal reports, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u234	We don't personalize. We're talking about what's going on. The Baltaku video says that in it. The government's Secretary General, your man, who you went and ate in Penteli all the time, even beforehand. Normal House with two hundred ninety-four Members? How is that possible? How can you two hundred and ninety-four Members speak of a normal House, Mr. Venizelo? It can't be done. That's why you're seventh and you're eighth and you're not gonna be anywhere soon. Of course, some "did" early and went to SYRIZA. Of course the Chief of Golden Dawn would like to be here to talk about this very serious issue, but it is not allowed, because a low-ranking prosecutor has literally ridden the whole Parliament and something he wants. And he does not clarify and he does not justify, as you have said and say, all his decisions, because he wants to. And the rest of us, because you don't cheer us up, and you don't like us, you're happy. Others say it out loud, others don't. What can we do? The Greek people voted for us and classified us as third parties, whether you like it or not. The President of Potamius said it was the third democratic force, as if we were another priest gospel. What can we do? Three consecutive times in three years he puts us in the Greek Parliament and ranked us third parties, whether you like it or not. If you could have passed a law, such as the law on cutting and suspending the funding of the Golden Dawn, the only party. If you could have passed a law that says "on fire the Golden Dawn and whoever votes Golden Dawn", you would do so with great pleasure most here in Parliament. But what do we do? The greatest judge is the Greek people. There's no one of you, no judiciary, no politician or any other. That's what you're gonna have to take off whatever happens, so we know what's going on. It will speak to us of democracy and of institutions, which have fifteen ministers confiscated, seized or followed very briefly no matter what you do. Tsukatos took the hatreds of "SIEMENS" and put them in the offices of PASOK. And you have a fund that is 120,000,000 euros minus, and when sworn accountants entered, you gave them napkins at costs to justify what you had eaten from the Greek people, the money you took in various ways, with illegal loans or with anything else. And you dare talk about Golden Dawn, the first thing you did was send the ILO, the financial services, and they blew us all up, the party, the Chief, the MPs. They didn't find anything at all. We're spotless. Golden Dawn is the only party that has books class III for those who know what this means. There's no second category that can be cooked or anything else. We're spotless. And we have said on several occasions and we say: where is the monitoring of the other parties to see what is going on? For everyone to laugh at certain political parties in particular and to see what happens. You have voiced and raised a whole question about the proposal by Members of the Golden Dawn to hold a roll-call vote and said "so or whatever" or anything else. They have no possibility for six Members to be here, because someone, not even the prosecutor today - I correct the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative Artemis Mathaiopoulos - but an official called and announced rejection. We are talking about ridiculous things, things that are not happening in Banana either, but they happen where there are wrongful circuits, which continue to intervene in any way. But I repeat that the abscess will break and then it'll all come out in the fore. I want to comment on today's terrible news that former Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras was listening to voices on his cell phone, and so, I guess, someone might have been watching him. You know everything, you've got it all. You were the ones who controlled the NSA, controlled the state services, watched the phone calls of the Golden MPs and not just. Articles, publications, information monitors, executives, political leaders, journalists, everyone. And what's going on? We have said so and we will also bring it to the House: let us check to see who has these missing bags. Is there a political party that has suitcases and watches others? Are there any businessmen? Are there others? For who? For whom are they doing all this? Let's open the phones, let's open up everything to see, see who's been taken and manipulated by judges, politicians, prosecutors, anyone for this disgrace that happened at the expense of Golden Dawn. As the rapporteur of the New Democracy said: 'What do we now talk about this bill?'. But you did all this. You have humiliated Parliament, with the culmination of what has happened over the last eighteen months in this House. Don't ask for an account and a change from others. But let us also come to this bill, which the Golden Dawn voted for at first to show that we - and above all we - have proved it in practice - support all efforts to halt the humanitarian crisis. Of course, for the humanitarian crisis caused by the Memorandum, there should be a total attack on the Memorandum policies, the Memorandum of Understanding and the Memorandum of Understanding. In the first chapter of Articles 1 to 5, we are voting in favour of Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4, concerning only the humanitarian crisis. We are not voting on Article 5, because it is not possible to leave to future ministerial decisions how we deal with different cases, namely pig in the bag. No, we're not voting for it. The second chapter, Articles 6 to 28, is against it as a whole, because it is, first of all, irrelevant to all the chapter on the bill, which reads: 'Agreements to take immediate measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, to organise the government and the governmental bodies and other provisions'. The issue is the humanitarian crisis and not the rest. Furthermore, the second chapter has to do, because it has been said and - if I am not mistaken - the SYRIZA rapporteur in his speech yesterday, willfully. So when you're willing, you don't look at the guys, you look at the substance. You're not looking at changing names of services, ministries, secretaries, changing positions, charging the state budget with extra money, while there's no money to build, institutionalize these positions. In Article 10, which is about corruption, this is where we laugh. We don't have to say anything. We can say a lot of things about what happened and we repeat it that if there is a will, corruption is directly, easily and without the need for institutionalised changes. With regard to the third chapter, Articles 29, 30 and 31 we are voting in favour of them, because that is also about the humanitarian crisis. We could not do any more, even though, as we have said, all this is not even half-measures in front of this neck, which comes, as soon as we need new measures for those who will be subject to the hundred instalments tomorrow, for those who will get a hand, because they will simply be in a worse fate, since you have a completely different philosophy than you should have for the crisis. With regard to the amendments, in Amendment 18/18, the Government allows the Minister of State to change the regime for the selection and appointment of the board of directors of NERITA while abolishing the supervisory board of NERIT. This is done on the grounds of the need to ensure financial control and direct rationalisation of NERIT's expenditure. On substance, the Minister of State, who is responsible for public service broadcasting, asks for a white cheque to do what he thinks he wants and what he wants with NERIT, starting with the state of the board. We are voting against it because we would in no way allow this Minister to do what he thinks with NERIT without prior information, planning and programme. Furthermore, the fact is that we would in no way allow the end of NERITT to increase in PPC's accounts, these accounts that we have inflated them with various at the expense of consumers and the cost of any changes. For Amendment No 24/24 on the subsidiary doctors' institution, we should stress that SYRIZA, when it was opposition, said in every direction that it would change the status quo. That's not true. We believe that the system for subsidiary doctors does not solve health problems and degrades the medical service. Instead, we see that the government does not make any changes and in fact goes on with a need solution giving some temporary solutions to the operation of hospitals. However, the issues that exist with regard to subsidiary doctors are not effectively resolved. That is why we are voting 'at present' in this amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. For Amendment No 17/17, as we have already pointed out in the resolution n. 48812014, so today we will highlight the simple and necessary one to ensure the transparency of contracts: the abolition of compulsory publication of public contracts in the regional press is a major blow to the general public's publicity, good administration and effective information for citizens, and therefore to the transparency of contracts and to the orderly functioning and sustainability of daily and weekly regional newspapers. It is a pity for the government to bring unreasonable amendments to the bill we are debating to the vote, but above all, we find it disgraceful to update regulations and provisions which, when they were brought by the previous government, the Memorandum of Understanding, SYRIZA was a political reason. That is why we are voting 'in euros'. Amendment No 16/16 is in the right direction. It gives a solution to the issue of workers in the ship repair zone of Perama and Elefsina shipyards as regards health care in kind. Given the situation in the shipyards, the unemployment and the wider issues involved in the operation of the shipyards, their workers and their families had in some way to be covered in terms of their care. It is considered positive and the extension to the members of the Legal Fund is also considered to be positive. After all, this is something that we in the committee have proposed, as has been done with engineers, that is to say, health care cover. It is not in 2015 that lawyers who, as a branch, have been particularly affected by the crisis and the memorandum and have lost their insurance capacity, have not been cared for. We are voting 'yes' and we think that other categories of people should be included. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to Amendment No 15/15, with two months' delay in the end, the Government will put an amendment of a social nature to the vote. The full exemption from surcharges, interest and fines for those who choose to pay a certain debt to the tax administration is, however, a favourable measure, the minimum of what the government has already announced in an election. However, it is not understandable that the wording of Article, according to which criterion the taxpayer will choose what a certified debt or part of it is to repay. It is unclear now on the basis of what criteria the administration will judge if the citizen or the company is in real economic weakness and what this weakness consists of. We believe that this could come along with what comes for discussion tomorrow in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and join it, because it is directly integrated. That is why we are voting 'at present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u235	Mr. Panayiot, it's over. You got two and a half minutes extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u236	Yes, sir. I spoke five and a half minutes less yesterday. With regard to Amendment No 14/14 on post-call officials from the Presidency of the Republic, we are voting 'no'. Instead of lowering costs, even by semantics, it is increasing. With regard to Amendment No 4/4 on the fact that EUR 12.5 million should be financed, which are legalised as expenditure retrospectively and for feeding illegal immigrants, we are firmly opposed. The sums are huge, they are at the expense of the Greek citizens and they are given in a completely non-transparent manner and not legal. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 26/26, we are in favour of accepting it, because the regulatory conditions of the national collective labour agreement which ended and has been denounced continue to apply for another six months and to the workers employed during this period. Since this amendment does not give rise to budgetary costs, we are therefore voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u237	I would like to make it clear that from what I have heard from my colleagues in the Bureau, the ministerial amendments have been accepted for discussion. Whether or not to vote will be decided at the time when the articles are voted on. However, those of you who have signed parliamentary amendments, and you are speakers, have the right to speak briefly in your own amendment when you are summoned to the Stepma. When the time comes, the President and the Ministers responsible will first say whether they agree to be introduced and then whether or not they are voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u238	Has the process become unified?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u239	Mr Kegeroglu, on the ministerial amendments, to obtain time for all colleagues to speak. I understand what you are saying, but otherwise not all colleagues, who of course want to talk. Mrs. Libertyraki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. I have been following the debate since yesterday and before the committees. But in plenary - perhaps because I am new in the House - the truth is that I am very far from being discussed. I thought my first comment would be a very good comment that nine out of ten speeches I heard from fellow Members were based on the central idea 'Look who's talking'. In other words, depending on where he was, SYRIZA said "Look who speaks", when they spoke representatives of the New Democracy or PASOK, apparently meaning their catastrophic results as government, New Democracy and PASOK, when they spoke representatives of SYRIZA, they said "Look who speaks about mine". I would like to tell you that on no subject, but much more on tangible, pressing and important things, we will not get away from the logic of 'Look who's talking'. In the final, we know who the Members of Parliament are. It is given the power of the parties that went down to the elections and went through the bar of entry into the parliament. "Look who's talking" could have been the permanent inclination to any subject. I find it extremely disappointing that, from the 'Look who speaks', we then go to broader either historical or ideological, abstract wordings on where people go, how ideas go, how the powers of light and darkness go. In the end, we are not talking at all, but at all, apart from saying that we all have very good intentions, about the most effective way of dealing with the phenomenon of extreme poverty, which is the front of this bill, despite the fact that it is only a very small part of it. I would like to believe that this negotiation is exceptionally unsatisfactory, because that confirms precisely all the concerns which have been raised - and I have often avoided - by society, that is to say, that it is in some way pretext to invoke the issue being discussed. Whether we are talking about poverty, whether we are talking about maritime transport, or about prehistoric monsters, we will eventually end up talking about neoliberalism, memorials, bad, good and ugly. I think that especially when such a terrible attempt is made to formulate a better intention than the extreme consequences of the crisis in recent years, I would expect greater concreteisation and greater anxiety about this. We, as you can see, don't mind that. We are a new party, we did not participate in the destructive governance, nor in the barren opposition, so in a sense we could rub our hands and say "ha, ha!", but we cannot say it, because it is about how we see the useful political role of Parliament and of politics. I think that there are three issues which I would like very quickly to mention before I tell you very quickly how we are voting on the articles. In many speeches by SYRIZA colleagues, I have heard the view that anyone who does not support this bill or who criticises this bill - because by that time perhaps it was not exactly who supports it and who does not support it - is against the poor, is full and enlightened. This is a - let us say - pre-adolescent simplification, according to which anyone who disagrees with one particular thing must be the vehicle of absolute darkness and of absolute reaction. It doesn't apply here. We are also making concrete efforts to improve the effectiveness of measures to tackle extreme poverty in the committee, both in the debate, and in the debate here in plenary. We are fighting for how to determine the criteria, how the mechanisms will be defined, how the tools will be available to share the services and the money they are to share. This is a real anguish and is not allowed to anyone - but no one! - interpret this anxiety by saying 'You are full' or 'you are friends of the rich' or in any case 'you are indifferent to the poor'. It does not do good to anyone, and certainly does not do good to those who need help. Our great objection to this package to deal with the crisis was that it leaves the most crucial issues vague, and that eventually leads to a debate that works a little bit like a fireplace. It enlightens the politician who introduces it and leaves the poor in cold and dark. We would not like it to be that way, we are not happy to make this criticism, and we certainly do not tolerate being treated as if we were pre-standardly stuck and narrow-minded. Surely there are ways to improve. I think that at the cracks in the debates and opinions I have identified several points of agreement, which are conquered a few - very few times at times by Mrs Fotio, but - I must say it - by the SYRIZA rapporteur now the second time. Many of the issues discussed well went in. There is no reason, therefore, for this kind of treatment. The second issue - and it is really a sensitive issue, and I want to be careful about how I am going to formulate it - is that we are really concerned about the way in which this escalation of tension in our relations with Europe is created. We are very concerned not only for the reason I mentioned yesterday in my speech, that in the event of an accident, and if we are taking the river, the poor and slick people will pay the greatest cost, but also because I think it is not more sensitive and more effective, a policy or a debate on how to deal with poverty, if at the same time we are fighting with dark forces of globalisation and neoliberalism. The representative - Mrs Vageias and a proposal - to vote for the complaint by Mr Deklan Costello - of the Commission, which the Commission is more reasonable and cooperative at the moment of difficult relations with Greece, in the finale of an Irish, not, that is, a Scandinavian - I read the statements as they were, if they were, at 'CHANNEL 4' - said there was no debate and information about your intentions in the first and second bills, without any assessment of whether there should be any policy against poverty. I am telling you this because the need to address poverty policies is a acquis communautaire. There is in all the countries of Europe, except Greece, which we do not put the minimum guaranteed income. I do not want to go into the debate if it was Mr Kegeroglu's good or I do not know whom else, but I would like to say that, if we could reach an agreement on a matter with the institutions, the issues of dealing with extreme poverty and the creation of a social security fabric at a time of recession would be the first with which we would be very easily in agreement. If we are able to achieve what we agree with, make them a flag of war, this is very bad news for the country as a whole, but above all for those who are most in need. Finally, let me make a small point about the technocrats, to whom nine or so times completely deceptive, the Prime Minister has been mentioned. You know, maybe I'm the House's procedural procedures - all that has happened - not to understand them, because I'm not a lawyer and I haven't been a MP. With a poor technocrat in my life, however, I must say that if I have to choose someone to implement a mechanism to distribute piles in order to decide which families should not be cut off or have a few more free kilowatts about what shapes, which households, as a matter of priority, will receive a rental subsidy - because they cannot all - I would prefer it to be a technocrat, who will follow some rules that politicians have given. I would not like it to be a priest or the lady of the association of ladies and gentlemen, who is stuck with the traditional families, or my cousin who is stuck - I mean whether there was one, not the one who is in this House - with the immigrants and who is against all other religions. I would not like all these people who are entitled to have groups, to be activists, etc. to deal with these issues. I would like them to be cold technocrats, who put down the criteria and apply them outright. That is why we, while voting on the first four articles on the treatment of extreme poverty, cannot vote for the fifth report because it is not, as the Scientific Committee of Parliament's report says, precisely the task of the Minister or of the Ministers to decide the criteria and procedures and procedures and the identification and procurement of private and public bodies for the implementation of these things. From there on we vote 'no' in Articles 6 to 10, 'yes' in Articles 11, 'no' in Articles 12-13, 'yes' in Articles 14 and 15, 'no' in Articles 16 and 17. Does it make sense to make the listing? I imagine - I have never done so before - that when the vote is taken it will be in writing and we will say 'yes' or 'no'. Is that right, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u241	That's the way it is, but if you want you can and now you can tell them to be recorded, just a little soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u242	I, in order not to abuse your time, and because I think this House has been too tired of a obsession with procedural issues, with masturbations and a lot of irritation, which certainly do not benefit the purpose we have here today, would like to speak only of an amendment that we do not accept, and there are many others. This concerns the little piece of the reform of NERIT or ERT that comes to this bill as an amendment, and this bill is almost ready. The reason why we are not accepting it and not voting for it is, in particular, the unilateral way of defining the administration by the Minister, that is to say, a way without calling for interest and, above all, without any suggestion to any other institution that it proposes. I think this is a sign of writing from which I hoped our country will slowly move away. Really with pain and trouble I see he's coming back. Just to say, if it was not understood, that we voted 'at present', that is, we did not vote in favour of the drafting of the bill at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty-one students and students and seven educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of the Excellency of Florina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has the floor. It is a good request, because we are in the debate on the articles, that the rapporteurs - who have spoken in principle - should speak specifically about the articles. They usually remember it in the last two minutes and then ask for tolerance from the Bureau. I will not show any tolerance from now on for the Members to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u244	What to do, Mr President, we have had developments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u245	Mrs Manolakou, this is none of your business. You're always within time, I remember you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u246	It was proposed by the President-in-Office. I would like to remind you that resolutions are not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, for the simple reason that the House is legislating. In addition, each party expresses its views and raises its views on each issue. We call on the President not to continue being arbitrary. I'm going to the bill now. The following question was raised by Minister: did not poverty deteriorate, do you not recognise extreme poverty? Of course, poverty has been spread in depth and to an extent. But you, the term 'humanist crisis', are consciously overshadowing the nature of the capitalist economic crisis and its effects on the popular strata, which stem from this very character and not from the form of its management. You even called on us not to sit at the corner, but to contribute to changing the correlation. The fact that we are not sitting at the corner seems not only from the day-to-day action of the JRC in and out of the House in order not to make the lives of the people worse, to claim what is depriving him of against the anti-Christian policies of the European Union and urban governments, but also today and last night. The JRC's parliamentary group, with its announcement, revealed and denounced the Bureau's conduct and attitude, but also the climate of tolerance to the criminal Nazi organisation of the Golden Dawn and called on the Government to take responsibility for such situations. You're calling us to contribute to a change in the correlation. To take the side of who? The working class and the folk layers or the capital? Because you negotiate how to save resources not for poverty the cursed or the replacement of losses, but to fund the recovery of investors and their profitability. That is why you have the support of both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the Golden Dawn. It is the strategic objective of the previous government, that of the European Union, with a different mix and different words, of course. The lenders, you pay them back. For the people, however, a mere life. Look at what the students of the CNN say and some of the questions they ask: Why are our schools and homes cold, while shipowners take duty-free fuel and industrialists give cheap power? Why while the supermarkets are full of food, are there people hungry? Why, at the time that they constantly reduce funding for education, give subsidies and tax exemptions to industrialists, bankers and shipowners? Of course, they give their brochure and information on poverty, unemployment and the millions of young people who do not have a job and ask, why and how many are all equal to the four hundred and eighty-two billion people present in the European Union? And it concludes: the present system strengthens the few, tormenting the many, ensures the parasites that have luxurious and luxurious life. This is what the European Union is serving. This, then, is the pamphlet for the youth and the students of the CNN. But this policy of the European Union also serves you. And you think it would be unnecessarily advisable for the country to remain in the European Union. And your bill, of course, was not translated, as Mr Tsipras said, because there was a copy of the European Community's management programmes for the most impoverished, with the money of the poor to go to the impoverished and not the rich. Therefore, most of the bill follows the laws of the previous government, mainly provisions which are extended over time. The same applies to most of the government's amendments. Prolong the Memorandum four months, but extend also the implementing laws, through such extensions of anti-grass measures and, indeed, for a longer period of four months. And then you get the misunderstanding, because we're tracking them and revealing them. At the same time, however, you have restrictions on suffering to approach these little crumbs. In this sense, we consider that it is not a breath of relief for those who have been struck, because the policy of the European Union and the constant memoranda continues from today's conflict, with the well-known methodology, but also the work of the European Union's 'new dose of new measures', with intimidation of the people to accept and not to react to the extension of the memorandum, with evaluation and troika, the institutions, namely, an extension of anti-population policy. And to come to the articles and specifically the first chapter with the five articles: in Article 1 few are the kilowatts you give. Where to get there? We're talking about basic needs. And also, the impoverished man doesn't have to pay past dues. However, we shall vote on this article, even for those few who have access. But you will accept the JRC's amendment. It improves enough to have more poor access. As far as rent is concerned, although it does not cover the number of households unable to satisfy housing needs, we will vote on it. However, for the unemployed who have zero income, there must be a subsidy of 100% of the rent. As far as food subsidies are concerned, this money is humiliating. Here he has to choose whether to buy milk or bread. It is shameful today, when science and technology have jumped and so few gather so much wealth. It's an inhumanity of capitalism. We ask in and in our amendment at least for a meal to be established at every school, with the responsibility of the state, without the involvement of NGOs, small and medium-sized enterprises and private individuals. Article 4 has been corrected and you have done well and we shall vote on it. We are, however, voting against Article 5. You are essentially asking for income and assets in white and you are adjusting them to the crumbs you want to share. On the second chapter on corruption, of course, corruption must be fought against it, not tolerated. The Independent Authority, the National Coordinator, the Special Prosecutor of Corruption, programmes such as "DIAGY" etc. have been and exist for the fight against corruption. However, despite all these institutional measures, corruption is growing, as the Citizens' Counselor points out in his report. The same is true, of course, in the other Member States, Italy, France, Spain and Britain. It's corruption like Lernaia Hydra. It's not a personal problem of Tent or Nicoludis. They'll work. Why isn't it a personal problem? Because the real aim of combating corruption in these forms is to contribute to the uninterrupted investment and development of large capital on issues of privatisation, public works and so on, without any obstacles, delays and, above all, uncontrolled interference. Everything is being legislated. Moreover, in Memorandum 2, which expressly referred to the creation of the national anti-corruption plan, it was not accidental. You keep this in the explanatory statement with a copy of Mr von Wogau's report. Date of birth: 4152/2013. That's how it's done. Business groups want full control and sharing of profits by rules, without interference. The Minister assures us of the operational action that will be developed and we believe it will be done. But no matter how many cats you put on the weak mice you'll catch. For capitalists are left untouchable, protected under the laws of their governments, with their provocative tax exemptions. After all, capitalists have no problem talking about poverty too when it is overflowing. But what are they doing? Do not talk about the system itself that gives rise to poverty and inequality. We shall vote 'present' in these articles. As far as Articles 18 to 28 are concerned, the civil state is concerned. We do not consider them to be essential. With regard to Article 29 in the third chapter on the problems of the transfer of pupils, in recent years 2 billion has been spent, but the transfer of pupils has not been guaranteed, it is within uncertainty. We're asking to delete the debts that the school committees have - TEI in light, water, telephone. With regard to Article 30, Mr Voutsis said that the most tragic, the most vulnerable group are the forty-five to fifty-five years old. That's right. But you exclude these people from free health care, because you have a condition to have fifty brands. In Ministerial Amendment 16 you have tabled and which we will vote on, you are giving access to unconditional health care and conditions to the persons of the EIF, namely engineers and contractors. Right, since the industry has been severely affected. But isn't builders in the same industry too? Why do you put the 50-pound limit on them? And so are the insured of the OAU, who are uninsured, poor people who have closed their shops, who have no payment. We therefore ask for our amendment to be fully and completely free of charge for medical treatment, without terms and conditions and with particular priority for the unemployed insurers and the members of their families. As far as Article 31 is concerned, we shall vote on it. I can't explain why time is not enough. We are also voting for the amendment to extend the term of office of subsidiary doctors and other sectors, so that public care for the people is not further aggravated. But there is a need for a permanent employment relationship. I conclude by saying that these poverty-management policies are, in fact, policies to maintain the problem in the adolescents and cannot give an answer to the crusts, the steaks. But the system seeks to get used to workers in reduced demands. This is done in circumstances where the development of productive forces enables the widest satisfaction of social needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u247	Here, Mr. Haikalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the first bill we are discussing today is a clear message from the government and from outside the country about politics, which it promises to follow, with regard to the first chapter which aims to normalise to a certain extent the effects of the policies of the former Government of New Democracy and PASOK, with a view to offering a minimum level of decent living. Thus, Article 1 provides the possibility of providing a free supply of up to 300 kW to households with extreme poverty. Article 2 provides a rental subsidy of up to 30 000 households. With regard to Article 2, I would like to stress that because there is a risk with the somewhat vague wording of paragraph 3 to circumvent this subsidised policy with the virtually consensual presentation of leases with more than one single family living in a building, I think it should be made clear that more than one family is not allowed to rent space. We have also asked the committee for it, but we are saying it again, because it has to be made clear. It must also be made clear that the beneficiary of the allowance is the lessee and the collector. Article 3 provides a food for those who experience extreme poverty. It is a work that finds us interns with the Church, as well as the municipalities that have helped most of this issue. However, as regards Article 3 and paragraph 3, since the Citizen's Card is used, it should be clarified that it has in no case been electronically identified by the person or biometric data other than its blood group. Because there is a risk that the phenomenon of receiving a subsidy from a natural person who is coupled, and the spouse or wife having enough income to live for both, it should be cleared and added that the annual family income of these persons, if they are coupled, should not exceed EUR 12 000 annually. I consider it particularly positive that the Minister responsible for income criteria for people with disabilities, confirming what the Independent Greeks have also proposed from the first debate in committee, so that these should not be taken into account when providing what is stated in the first chapter. The second chapter consists of the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption and also provides for the establishment of a Secretary-General to assist the work of the Governing Council for Economic Policy. I believe that this is a chapter that our partners will also welcome, since the fight against corruption is also in the priorities themselves, especially because nothing has happened since the previous government. Of course, corruption is a time-consuming wound to the economy, but also to the political life of the country. The fragmentary measures taken by the governments of the past have probably exacerbated the problem, despite fighting it. As far as this chapter is concerned, it is true that there has been a lot of talk about whether this legislation creates confusion of powers. But the substance remains. We must create those structures that will allow the system to operate in the light of transparency, and it will make it much more difficult to cover up phenomena affecting public life. On this essential issue, there is, I think, no one who disagrees. That is why I call on all Members to put forward any concerns they may have, but also to support the provisions of Chapter 2, because they are a serious step towards resolving a chronic issue that destroys both the economic and political life of the country. After all, it is the responsibility of all Members of Parliament to monitor the work of a government and to react where they see that things are fleeing from the objectives set. In Article 9, it should be clarified that employees of legal persons under private law who are seconded or transferred belong to the wider public sector. That is why a drafting amendment is proposed so that this can be made clear. At least we Greeks, that's why we're here. We will support what is positive from now on comes to a vote, but we will also criticise where we see that there is a need. We will also put forward proposals so that the legislation that is being passed is as far as possible and that we do not need to step back in order to correct errors and omissions. In the third chapter we are first of all giving a solution to another thorny issue that has been troubled by parents and students in recent years and has been related to the transfer of pupils to and from school. With the extension we earn enough time to focus on finding resources so that the necessary funding of these actions can be obtained from next year and an end to the suffering of all the parties involved. Sickness benefits are also regulated for unemployed, underemployed and other weak social groups. The proposal to complete fifty days' insurance is a significant relief for our fellow citizens in order to consider their health books. This is a measure which relieves a large number of underemployed workers because of the economic crisis and the high unemployment rate. The same applies to the proposal for persons insured in OAUs, ETAs and OGAs, who, although they have debts, will be entitled to sickness benefits and protection, taking into account their income. In addition, according to the statements made by the Minister responsible, Mr. Army, these benefits are extended to doctors and lawyers. As far as the workers at Elefsina and Skaramaga shipyards are concerned, they will receive medical treatment with no insurance days limit. However, I think it is necessary to take care of the sickness benefits in kind, to the unemployed and to the rest. In this paragraph, paragraph 3, care must be taken to ensure that the provision tends to grant an appropriate time limit for insured insurers of the AIFM, so that, on the basis of the new legislative arrangements, they regulate their debts, as the old unacceptable arrangements for debtor traders and professionals are still in force. I already think the Minister has seen it positively. I think it will quickly make a ministerial decision to resolve the problem. Finally, Article 31 in the first paragraph proposes the three-month extension from the end of the three-month period for requests for the recognition of the working time of school guards, as it has been found that problems have arisen in its implementation and clarifications are required to be made to insurers. The second paragraph provides for the extension of the deadlines of up to 30-6-2015 for the decision by the funds of the uniforms for their compulsory inclusion of the subsidiary insurance industry into the EIF or for their conversion to professional compulsory insurance funds. I would like to assure the PDO - as I have said in committee - that the extension is given in their interest to give us time to discuss with them, in order to ensure that after the abolition of the application of a zero deficit clause and the suspension of Article 220 n. 4281 to be able to satisfy their fair demands. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we all understand the historical moments that we live in and the responsibilities that we are to blame. Our homeland is tested as much as in its post-political history. It goes without saying that we will not be able to agree on everything. It is, however, necessary to agree on the change of attitude that the entire state and society need to pass through. The times that only two parties decided on the fates of a people with one party voting against what the other proposed must end. The country's historical need for development requires all of us to leave the micro-political aspirations and show the greatness of the Greek soul to all the lengths and backs of the world. The only way to ensure the recovery of the economy and the path towards a modern Greece is by the way of harmony, mutual support and common assumption that we must leave behind the attitudes that have brought us here until we have set a unique goal, that we all become proud again as Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of this bill, both at the outset and in writing, which is a starting point for a relationship of confidence with the world that is currently watching us. Looking at them in the eye, we don't give them the solution they'd like, but this look is a contract that smiles come. And the smiles will come after a long ride that we all have to watch together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u249	Mr Haikalis, thank you very much, and why you didn't cover all your time, but why you closed down in this nice way. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Kegeroglou, I would like to inform you of a letter sent by the President of the PASOK to the President of the Greek Parliament Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou: "My lady, following my 6-2-2015 and 13-3-2015 letters of this kind, I know that according to Rule 17(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Representatives (deputies to the President of the Parliamentary Group), are appointed by the Members, 1. Ioannis Koutsoukos and 2. Leonidas Gregorakos. Yours sincerely Evangelos Venizelos".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u250	Before giving Mr Kegeroglu the floor, I would also like to address my fellow Members with a proposal to ensure that everyone speaks before 00: 00. Ladies and gentlemen, you have eight minutes each, as originally set. If, then, you accept to be six minutes, then we save two hours, so that it is a hundred percent sure that you will speak for all sixty registered Members. However, I am not addressing the parliamentary representatives, but to colleagues, because twenty-two years in this Parliament, I know the poorness of the Member. So if colleagues agree, let us do so, so that you can all speak and not have ten or twelve colleagues who will not speak at all. I see that we agree unanimously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u251	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u252	Of course, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u253	Mr President, in my opinion, there is a systematic abuse of time particularly by the parliamentary representatives. And every time Members talk, we have time cuts. I understand the need for everyone to speak - I am the first to support it - but because I have suffered it twice and personally, but other colleagues too, I think that should be applied for ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u254	Mr Colleagues, this is what happens when I am in Stepma - because I agree with and overshadow - as I believe other colleagues do. Of course, I must remind you that yesterday we were reducing the time to the parliamentary representatives. However, you are absolutely right, because I told you that the old people know poorness. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the closure of the debate on the debate at first reading. We know what we voted on. In addition, I, as rapporteur, placed myself politically and specifically, like the parliamentary representative, and the President of the PASOK himself. So we know what we voted for. The question is what has been recorded in the Minutes and whether we have understood what we have voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u256	That will be guaranteed, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u257	Obviously, a procedure that started with the best omens in the committees, because of the personal responsibility of the President - in the way he handled the issue - had a negative development, but it has nothing to do with what has to do with Parliament alone. It is neither procedural nor legal nor personal. Because it may indeed, as I said, the President is tired - she works long hours - and she needs to rest. But it wasn't that. This was a deeply political issue, since Parliament's unanimous decision was linked to the negotiation. And that was something that at least personally gave me the impression that the President wanted to sabotage it, which he did. From there on, as I have said, it is not just a personal matter, it is also a matter of the majority which the President has proposed to see the matter of Parliament's operation. I have nothing else to say about this, as there is no other dispute with the face and the irregular procedures at all times. Mr President, I think that the creative debate that has taken place in the committees has raised two major issues. One is the scale of the problem and the depth of the problem, and the other is the need for synergy, cooperation and co-responsibility of the state and of civil society and all those who, through their decisions, play an important role in the area in order to have the greatest effectiveness. The institutions expressed their deepest conviction that if this cooperation exists, it will be better. And that's what we need to do. In order to achieve this, there should also be political consultation. If there is no political and party consultation in Parliament, then we will ask society to consent and have synergy with some who cannot agree with each other. You will tell me: 'But there must be unanimity?' No, of course not. Because everyone has a different ideological and political starting point and their opinions differ. But we end up with something that has a particular purpose and purpose. We agree on this and we all help with the effort, especially when things are about our fellow citizens, people who experience extreme poverty. Look, it's a European thing. Europe is really bouncing. I mentioned examples: for metro, under the bridges. I have mentioned problems that exist throughout Europe, problems that have to do with people who experience poverty. The European acquis has essentially been called into question. It must be demonstrated by Europe in its decisions and policies that it can review and upgrade its policies, particularly those concerning the social state, so that it can respond to the new reality. The basic principle we support PASOK, the Socialist Party, is that economic recovery, economic policy in general, the prospect of growth should be directly linked to social progress. Economic recovery and employment must be the two sides of the same currency. Development and social policy should be directly linked and mutually provided. Development can give us a strong social state and a strong social state can feed back development because social cohesion is a prerequisite. It is conditional upon one point thereafter. This has to do with the whole of Europe, and it has to do with our country, particularly at the time when we are experiencing the crisis in its larger dimensions. We have talked many times about the 2010 difference by 2015. There are two realities. There is an economic reality for public finances, for what we call a'state', which is completely different from what was in 2010. In 2010 we talked and disagreed about the annual deficit of 36 billion or 34 billion and in 2015 we disagreed on the amount of the surplus. It's a huge difference. But that was to be achieved, it had social costs and social costs were mainly passed on to the weakest. This second reality of the weakest is immediately called - it was called yesterday - to deal with the state. It will do so in two ways: it will directly by means of direct action in a social protection system which will act directly and, of course, in the medium-term political connection of the prospect of economic recovery and development with the creation of a new social state. I have to say here that in the public debate too many opinions on reforms have been expressed. There are those who say that nothing should change because everything was working well and all that has to be done is to have better benefits lists. Only they say that when they are in the opposition and when they are in the government, they understand and say "hey, we can't do it now, we'll do 10%". So the three hundred thousand are 30. That's the one point of view. There is another view, on the other hand, which says that we need to save money through horizontal budgetary cuts, which can also be used for fiscal adjustment, but possibly for dealing with problems relating to society. Both are deeply conservative. Both views bet on anger. One bets on his anger of the citizen, who takes care of any reform, of course, following the distortion of the concept of'reformation', which has suffered too many injuries over the past period, and the other bets on those who think there should be no social transfers and the tax they pay should not be used to support the weak. We must understand that the view expressed by us and many others have embraced it regardless of ideological position. The view of social democracy, that the social state must be constantly reformed in order to respond to increased needs, is what we need today and as Greece. And that cannot be done by individual measures. We should have a comprehensive plan. That is why we have tried - not to say that we did everything - and we have brought together all the individual views and created what we can call a 'national policy'. A national social protection policy which clearly has to have oxygen, finance, must have a political will to be activated. It has been largely activated since the previous period. They have now ceased to be the individual political fragmentary and individual measures. Are these connecting parts of a strategy that he says? It says that due to the acute problems a part of the population experiences, 5-7% that we say belongs to extreme poverty, there should be a specific policy for this area. The second is that all citizens belonging to about one third of the population should ensure that they have access to social care, welfare and, more generally, to services that help the standard of living. And thirdly, let's see how through the individual national projects for disabled people, for the homeless, for the Roma, for all categories, we complement a set of actions that will actually bring results. Family allowances, new children's benefits in what policy do they become? They are about families with children of one third of the population and they are part of the support of families in order to cope with extreme poverty, but also with relative poverty. Six hundred and fifty thousand families are supported, the weakest finances in our country. It is a basic policy. The other axis for extreme poverty should also be moved on with the proposal that we have made on guaranteed social income, in which we all agree - we disagree on the procedure and who will say it his own. We don't claim that we first said it. One sentence was tabled in 1994 by one group of Members and later by another. That's not the point. The question is whether we need to implement it today. If what we have agreed with our partners - which is this policy - is easier to implement, because synergies also exist. Guaranteed social income enables both financial support and the provision of services as referred to in Articles 1, 2 and 3, which we are voting on, but also work reintegration. So I think that, regardless of the fact that the government refuses to accept this amendment which various parties support, it should open up a debate afterwards. After all, we agreed with the evaluation that we should go to a substantive debate to see how it will be implemented. I would like some more time, Mr President, for some amendments and articles, in particular. We are voting for Articles 1, 2, 3, although the income - which concerns the people who are to join - said that disability benefits should not be included. You've only put it in Article 3, in the other two, you haven't put it. We are voting on Articles 4 and 5, and we are voting on the articles in the provisions on corruption. Although there are individual disagreements and comments, we are voting on them. But we are not voting on Articles 16 to 26. In particular, the article on the creation of new Deputy Secretarys-General has not been ensured that the number is reduced and the number is not increased. And of course we do not vote for the abortion of the volunteer, who is not a volunteer, because he abuses the notion of a 'employer'. The volunteer if he wants, is accepted. He has no right to veto him the one to accept him. That is the concept of volunteering. The concept of volunteering is being abused here. He's not a volunteer. You must put at least a limit, do not take a road and say where he will be insured, because the insurance he has in his job and the accident that will happen at the Ministry is another. That's where he's uninsured. Watch it. It's about his life. Don't tell him to make private insurance. If you don't put these locks on, you'll have problems yourself. So that is not what we are voting for. Now, amendments have been tabled which are worth mentioning two, three things. For the amendment to the National General Cooperative Convention, we have said politically that we are calling for it to be mentioned in all the collective agreements that have been in force or have been in force in the recent past - that is, within three months - so that we have an integrated intervention. The second amendment, which concerns medical care, is of course adopted because it complements the existing provisions and which we are voting on anyway, that is to say, Articles 27 to the end. But we have tabled an amendment, which is two provisions, and it says that those who are not covered by what this article says or other provisions in force will be covered by the uninsured booklet. And we also made an improvement of what 'insecure book' means: it means full access to the EDPS, the ESS and the services of the EEAS. An amendment on Syriza has been tabled by Members, and we support it if the Minister accepts it. We support it because it will save an institution. I had worked her out, too, but I hadn't been able to walk her. It is now another amendment concerning the regions and conventions. She doesn't need to. These contracts, as provided for in the Act, may be concluded by the regions under Law 3852. So this amendment tabled by Mr Zacharias does not need to be accepted. There's something else. I don't know what. Explain to us. There is also the amendment concerning the subsidiary and I would like to make two comments. Madam Minister, the amendment brought by Mr Xanthos covers the subsidiary in hospitals - and doctors and doctors and medical staff - but it does not refer to social care units. If we add the social care units - which ended after the House closed down and could not legislate - you will have no problem next time in social welfare centres...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u258	Mr. Kegeroglu, I've given you four minutes. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u259	I'm closing, Mr. President. Mr. Blonde has removed the payment of the newspapers. I don't understand why he removed them. It's important. They are in trouble, indeed, hospitals. Mr President, we shall be voting on the others, and I thank you for the tolerance. He had given me, of course, Mr. Haikalis his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u260	I gave it to you every year because you were right when you yelled. You saw, when you calm down, how nice things are. Mr. Haikalis didn't give it to you. As you referred to Mrs Fotou, I would like to congratulate her on her personal congratulations of the President-in-Office, because she has not missed a minute in the Chamber. From there on, what can Mrs. Fotio answer you? Mr. Blonde should have been there. The President said that those ministers who have tabled ministerial amendments to be present to answer what they accept and what they do not accept. Mrs. Fotio cannot answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u261	And NERITT wasn't the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u262	I think the ministers will be here late in the evening and you'll get answers. Well, thank Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u263	Mr President, thank you for your kind words. It's our duty to be here all the time. I'll tell you later how much we do acceptable. There doesn't have to be anyone else. Don't worry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u264	That's not what I meant. The amendment has been accepted. Whether to extend to the structures he has said you cannot give an answer. But write it down so that you can inform him until it is time for the vote. We are now entering the fellow speakers. The first speaker is Mr Athanasios. Here, Mr Athanasios, you have the floor, either from your position or from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I will only refer to the second chapter over time. Before I refer to this, I would like to remind the President of this House, Mrs Constantopoulos, that she is not here now, I would like to have been here - to take a look again at Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, in which the powers of the President of this Parliament are strictly deleted. If the President of Parliament wants to make comments, comments, ironics or promote government work or take a stand on it, he must leave the Chair and go down to the Members' seats. I would like you to pay attention to the second chapter that I am going to develop from the point of view of law and law, because it is of great importance. The second chapter of the draft law therefore seeks to create a centralised government body, which will direct, plan, plan and coordinate the actions of all the agencies and independent authorities in the context of the anti-corruption plan. In short, there is an attempt to control everything by the government and especially by the Secretary-General for Combating Corruption. Therefore, recommendations will be made and instructions will be given on how, when and what to do or not to do. So we lead to dangerous perverts, since there will be potential for who to control and who not. In other words, the operational competence of the existing control and fight against fraud is being dismantled. In fact, the independent bodies, especially the independent bodies, the independent authorities, have to incorporate their action into the draft coordinated actions to be carried out by the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption, and they are also obliged to be supervised by the Secretariat-General. I am referring to Article 12(1)(b) of the bill and I would ask you to look at it. Listen to why they're doing this. I read the rapporteur's report: 'This is what is done to achieve uniformity of methods and practice'. In other words, all control mechanisms will wait for orders on how and when to act. But all the cases aren't the same. Others are infringements in the customs area, in the customs code. Others are the infringements that may be made by anonymous companies, whose form is the media. They work, as you know, in the form of public limited companies, i.e. private legal entities. Others are infringements to legal persons under public law. Others are TAT violations, local government agencies. Others, of course, are the frauds that are taking place at the expense of the European Union's financial interests and there are particularities in both infringements and dealing with them. Thus, everyone is transformed into administrative bodies, subject to administration. One key question now arises: Who will control the requirements of the administration, the plans of the administration, when they are irrelevant in exercising the functions of these bodies? I said to the committee, when we were discussing, that I am not specifically referring to the Minister of State, Mr Nicoludis, whom we know and his course is well known, and there is no way that he could tolerate any constitutional violations or issue, which would call into question the operational competence of these institutions. But in general, as a bill, I have to say it. I would now like to refer to the articles and do so, Mr President, because, as you know, I was the last speaker yesterday. I was going to talk to him at first yesterday and we didn't catch up with him. Today I was first, but because of the work of our party's parliamentary group I could not be here in time. In Article 10, as the Minister has amended twice, it was correct to intervene, and of course we do not raise the issue of unconstitutionality, since the aggressive definition of 'administrative' bodies has been introduced. Therefore, as I said, there is no reason for unconstitutionalism, since it was understood that public prosecutors in the performance of their duties would not be understood to be part of the hierarchical structure of the administration. But I said that the 'administrative' should be defined in the other articles where they refer to those bodies which are anti-corruption control mechanisms in 7. a, 7.d and, of course, 8. The same applies to Article 9. I told Mr. Nicoludi, who is not here now, but I imagine he will come and see the Minutes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, what I want to say is quite serious. In any case, now see what problem can be created. What does Article 10 say? Note: 'The General Secretariat is preparing coordinated action programmes to combat corruption'. Now see the confusion created by reading also Article 12: 'The Minister of State - now changes the verb 'drafts' - draws up coordinated programmes'. So here we have a match. It's changing the verb. Who will do it and who will go to? After all, let us see whether there is a difference, as in the bill between bodies, control mechanisms, control bodies, prosecution mechanisms and services. In other words, there is a repetition of the same term with different names. I don't see any difference in conceptual. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not have time to develop it, but I would ask you to see Articles 7(1a, 7(1)(d), 10, 11, 12(1a) and, of course, the report, which does not refer to bodies at all and only to bodies. This means that there will be confusion in the application of these provisions, depending on which service they are and when they will be able to give instructions and control over those to be checked. A few words, Mr President, about the coordinator. He said here, and Mr. Nicoludis said that we are not doing scout exercises, and Mr. Famelos said that corruption was rooted. This is a huge mistake and injustice. I inform you that in the last two years with the laws we have taken and the misappropriation of the offences of the rulings, but also the entire range of law, as we have set it, in conjunction with the Corruption Coordinator, our country in the international classification of corruption has risen to twenty-five whole posts, fourteen posts in 2013 and eleven posts in 2014. We received Greece very low and took it high. And I wonder, and the Prime Minister said that the measures are, he says, to hit corruption. But that is what we did, too, is due to the Minister of State, who is to fight dirty money and to the Coordinator against Corruption. So I do not see why there should be these expressions which only create impressions. It is a big problem, I said the other day, whether the Corruption Coordinator can be abolished. As I said, Mr Mitsotakis said the United Nations Convention yesterday. I would also like to tell you that the United Nations Convention against Corruption has been ratified by n. Date of birth: 3666/2008. The Coordinator Law was honoured to be one of those who processed it and predicted repression and prevention. This prevention legislation does not provide for and this is a basic principle. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, Mr Voutsis, I would like to say this and conclude, Mr President. The roadmap on technical assistance to Greece in the area of counter-corruption in 2012 recognised as priorities the establishment of a comprehensive corruption strategy and the strengthening of their coordination through a single coordinator, i.e. an independent body. Finally, according to the recommendations of the Action Team for Greece, in May 2014, the national coordinator enjoys independence in the performance of his duties. What will be the independence of the General Secretariat against Corruption, since it will be a governmental body? Control mechanisms must be independent and beyond governmental work. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u266	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u267	I shall conclude, Mr President, which is essential. But it is also a unilateral breach of the agreement recently reached with the 'compositions', as we now call the troika. In this respect, I would like to say that the troika is the representatives of the institutions. The institutions are three: the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Commission. The Commission's building does not come here or the Bank of Europe to trade. They come with their representatives, who are the three representatives of the troika that have come. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] He said the government's president said we were taking orders from them. I challenged him to name a case. There's no way. On the contrary, we had red lines that were never overrun. In fact, I wonder what you're going to do with the technical tiles that are coming. The technical tiles are nothing but the implementation of the agreement between the troika, the institutions - as you now say - and the Greek Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u268	Please make it easier for me. I don't like to interrupt. We agreed to talk six minutes. Either we keep the time and all colleagues talk or tell me to cancel it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u269	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u270	I'm right, but where should I find it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u271	You find it now! So I'm done. I just want to read what Mr. Varoufakis sent. Are you going to say that, Miryaco, that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u273	Well, Mr. Mitsotakis will say what Mr. Varoufakis' e-mail says on the issue of the National Corruption Coordinator, because it must be an independent body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u274	Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. You see the absolute degree of organisation of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, where there is natural continuity among the speakers. Before I come to the issue of the bill, I, Mr President, would like to make a brief reference to what happened in the Chamber a few hours ago. There have been two things which I, although I am eleven years of parliamentarians, have never seen before and I hope they will not be repeated in the future: firstly, the use by the President of a provision of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which actually allows the President to ask for a roll-call vote. There is this provision, but this is where the President of Parliament made use of the order, since it was found that the Members of the Golden Dawn were not present to hold a roll-call vote. This is something that has unfortunately not happened before. I am not surprised, however, that the selective affinities of the President of Parliament with the Golden Dawn are obviously known to all of us and are unfortunately confirmed once again. The second unprecedented thing, which has happened, is that the debate was concluded at the outset - listen to them, ladies and gentlemen, especially you younger people - without the parliamentary spokesman for the Officership. Especially if one takes into account the fact that the Prime Minister himself participated in the debate, it is always customary for the Prime Minister to answer either the President of the Parliamentary Group or, if absent, the Parliamentary Representative. That didn't happen here. I do not know whether the President of the Parliament wanted to protect Mr Tsipras from the adversary proposed by the New Democracy. You give that impression! It's okay, you're listening a little late. However, I fear that such practices do not honor a President who was elected by a large majority, although - I am sorry to say it - had a certain past as a parliamentarian regarding the non-compliance of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We trusted her as a New Democracy too. I hope it does not deny the confidence we have surrounded with. Well, he hasn't made a good start. I now come to the legislative issue, ladies and gentlemen. First, I welcome the Prime Minister's presence, 50 days after the government's inauguration, in the first bill brought to Parliament by the new government. Obviously, the Prime Minister felt the need to come here and explain how the government enjoys absolute legislative freedom and how it is able to implement its programme without receiving suggestions or encouragements from creditors. So let's see, ladies and gentlemen, if that's true. If the Government, Minister, had speeded up the extension of the country's funding programme to Parliament, we would probably all know better what was really agreed between the government and its creditors. One thing that has been agreed, in the communiqué issued by the Eurogroup dated 20 February, Mr Voutsi - which Mr Varoufakis signed and agreed - is that the Greek Government will not take unilateral action and will not revise previous reform actions implemented by the previous government, such as, Minister, will be assessed by the institutions "assussed by the institutions". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] For you to know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what the Minister of Finance agreed to. The assessment of what constitutes unilateral action is not carried out by the Greek Government is carried out by the institutions. That's agreed. Whether we choose here to provide support to a bill that moves in the right direction is another case. We do so and we do so for reasons explained by our rapporteur. But what you signed, Minister, as Greek Government, does not say that. And right now, we're on the easy side. But what happens when you're called on to implement more difficult reforms? In line with what Mr Varoufakis said, there will be a pre-election rhetoric, or what you say in private in the institutions? And in order to make it easier for the Government and the Members of the Coupling, who I imagine have an interest in knowing exactly what Mr Varoufakis signed a month ago, I would like to put forward a report on the Minutes - whoever is interested in it - the draft extension of the agreement, as it has leaked - and I stress this, Minister, to avoid misunderstandings - in the press. This plan, therefore, provides for an extension of the financial stability agreement for four months, is governed by English law, and obviously any disputes are resolved in Luxembourg courts. And I would really like the government to confirm or deny whether this plan is the final plan, which was signed by the Greek Government or not. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What are you afraid of, Mr. Voutsi, and you are not bringing the agreement to Parliament? How can the extension agreement be voted on by other parliaments and here it is not debated? What, really, are we talking about and how can we really know what the official position of the Greek Government is and what the commitments it has made when we are not discussing here in the House on the agreement that you have signed? And I wonder: What legal authority does the Minister of Finance return 11 billion from the Financial Stability Fund, the EFSF, without the agreement being ratified by Parliament? How exactly is this legally happening? I'd really like you to explain it to me. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that you are desperately caught in your election rhetoric. You cannot either break the break to start, which we are obviously all absent, nor take a step towards an honest and necessary compromise. At the same time that, unfortunately, all this is happening, the real economy is paralyzing, unemployment is growing, export businesses are unable to finance their exports, and we here are talking about words, about paintings, about whether the troika will be called 'institutions' and whether or not we should be meeting the technical steps and where. There is a sculpture with words by the Prime Minister and the Government, which ignores that the Greek economy is in a tragic situation today and really problems, unfortunately, you cannot solve. So - and I close with it - before you discussed this bill you had to bring to the House for debate and ratify, in my legal view, the agreement you signed, so that we really know whether what you are saying here within your audience is compatible with what your Government has signed with Mr Varoufakis abroad. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u276	The President of the House is sitting in the chairs. He has asked for the floor and will be given priority under the Rules of Procedure. I guess she wants to answer the reports on her face. Until you get to Stepma and because, Mrs Liberaki, you are here, I would like to clarify this and that is an answer both to Mr Kegeroglu, who was doubtful whether they have been written in the Minutes, as well as to the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami, who have taken this position, and if they so request, they will be counted by the majority. As far as the New Democracy and PASOK are concerned, it is therefore clear that they have already been counted by the majority. However, because you have heard me speak, if I am not mistaken, did you say that in the first place you are voting 'the present'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u277	I said that, at the outset, we are voting 'at present' because we cannot give a negative vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u278	That is what I wanted to hear, because I had heard before the President. It must therefore be corrected, because I have heard that you are finally voting 'the present'. Therefore, note here that the Minutes need to be corrected. Here, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. I asked for the floor because I watch very interestingly a game of disorientation and impression, which some have been exalting for a long time, knowing very well that what they display is not their distance from Golden Dawn, but rather their proximity to practices and logic...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u280	Who's doing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u281	Don't interrupt. At the end of the speech you may have received the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u282	Mr President, I would ask you not to be interrupted by you either. I would ask you to allow me to address an issue on which there is deliberate distortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u283	From whom, my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u284	Mr Kyriazides, stop what you are doing and let me sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u285	When you guys did it, did you see what it was like? What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u286	Please very much. Will we allow the debate to be concluded?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u287	Mr. Mitsotakis, I understand your bitterness because, as has been said, there is a discomfort that some privileges were in this building stop there. So I understand your personal discomfort and discomfort to Mrs Bakoyannis. Hang in there. I shall reply to you on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u288	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u289	Some people, therefore, are practicing revolutionary exercises in order to display supposedly in an area that is not at risk of fascism - because Parliament is not in danger of fascism - its anti-fascist position. This bill concerns the humanitarian crisis. It is about what millions of our fellow people have been tested from. It is about what had to be a project of the previous governments when they negotiated. It is about what is the core of the values of democracy and the European Union. It is about what we have to fight for, and above all about showing solidarity with the tested people. The Prime Minister of the country in his first speech to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - of which I am a member and as a member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group I am speaking now, so I am speaking from Stepa - addressed to the MPs and said that our first bills and that of the humanitarian crisis will be brought to Parliament and we will bring them by roll-call vote, because we are not afraid of the roll-call vote and no Member is afraid of those who support this government saying 'yes' to these provisions. And we will break this establishment, ask for the roll-call vote from the opposition only by the ruling MPs or by hearing hearings to vote. So this was the point of the President's judgment after the Prime Minister's speech that the roll-call vote must be taken and this crisis is confirmed by the following ones, because the following ones have shown that there were some who had difficulty in saying 'yes'. There were some - like Mr Georgiadis yesterday - who said that for our 'yes' you are responsible for it, because we do not take responsibility if we consider it a unilateral action. In other words, Mr Georgiadis said - and if I understood well by the signatory, Mr Vorides, that is the concept that they wanted to express - that they were washing their hands out of this bill. So the meaning of the need for the roll-call vote to be held was precisely that, not to have Pontius Pilates - people who ask them, "whether now, sit down, what do you say, yes or no?" and they say to you "there is a point of order" - but we have MPs who are consciously answering that, gentlemen, between the interests of lenders and those who are blackmailing and the interests of the people and those who are struggling, we prefer the interest of the people and say "yes" in the bill that tends to alleviate the humanitarian crisis. Anyone who has second thoughts at this level who is enough to be unable to vote for this basic draft temporary relief bill, because he thinks that some people will be sad - some who do not vote but perhaps another way of controlling MPs - then he, yes, should also take responsibility for this position in roll-call vote. The terrain that followed is miserable. And personal references to me as supposedly having selective relations with the Golden Dawn ignore, gentlemen and Mr. Mitsotakis, my personal and political path. You should have known - and now I am speaking as a member of the SYRIZA and not as President of the House - that with the Golden Dawn I have been in a position of responsibility, I have been confronted as a member of the movements. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I have crumbled, Mr Mitsotakis, not by the comfort of any ministerial office or prime minister whose use I am using - against the abuse of the premises of this House - I have also been colluded as a lawyer. In fact, you should have known all of you who are trying to identify that even five days ago there was a trial, in which I was against the imprisoned, temporarily detained MP, Mr Cassidy. So these attempts to create identities, which Mr Pretenderis first devised and, secondly, Mr Chrysanthos Lazarides, reveal exactly what thoughts are those who exalt and build these scenarios. But I want to tell you this. Despite this course and despite my consistent attitude to the difficult times - and at times when some of you elsewhere were placed - I do not find it hard to see what is about political controversy and what is involved in democratic operation: not to prevent them from coming to Parliament, regardless of whether they are political opponents. And for SYRIZA you know who political opponents are. And you are a political opponent and Golden Dawn is a political opponent, but that does not make it possible to pervert parliamentary and democratic processes. Those who attempt to draw legal conclusions from the parliamentary procedure are precisely those who provide arguments for undermining justice. They are precisely the same, who were talking about interventions in justice and have been recorded. He was your Secretary General, Mr Baltakos. So leave to me the lessons of anti-fascist, anti-antasist or democratic behavior. Each one with his example proves what he is, each one with his choices proves it. And you prove from every place you finally understand what you serve. What we are called upon to serve as Members of this Parliament is the interest of the people. You think that the interests of the people are being served by turbulence, with procedural issues from allegedly democratic sensitivity, when you had collapsed in the previous period, you bombed the Members with late night's amendments, when you closed Parliament to prevent Mr Venizelos from being controlled, when you closed the House every time it did not serve governmental manipulations, when the reason was not even given. The floor was asked and the floor was never given to a Member asking for it, contrary to what is happening at this time. These choices are that ultimately reveal that what serves and serves is neither the interest of the people nor democracy. It is not in the people's interest that his survival should enter the balance and the palanza when it is tried and negotiated as if it were a measurable size for survival itself, dignity itself, freedom, democracy and the rights of citizens. I say this to those who are very easily - and they also know as well - that this battle for democracy I have given it as an advocate and against judges who have publicly expressed themselves in an anti-Semitism and racist way - now choose to color a choice, which is clearly committed to the application of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that I have taken the floor as a matter of priority with the opportunity given to me by the Rules of Procedure. It is not my choice to use this privilege, which others have invented and established, and it is my commitment that I will not make use of this privilege. However, I cannot remain silent and unaware of this cannibal extremist distortion, but also of all kinds of games that some appear very willing to play or to which some appear very willing to take part in exile or protagonist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u290	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u291	Well, Mr. Mitsotakis has asked for the floor on personal grounds and I will give him that speech. But wait, Mr. Mitsotakis. As a Parliamentary representative, Mr Brutsis and Mr Nicholas as a Parliamentary representative, the floor has been requested as a priority. Mr Nicholas, you have asked for the floor to make your speech. Aren't you going to talk again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u292	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u293	Good. I would also like to address my fellow Members to understand what I told you before. Mr Mitsotakis has the floor on staff. Please, tell us what the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u294	I think there have been several references to my face, Mr President, to justify my request to speak on staff. Look, I understand the tension of the President of Parliament, because I imagine that it should not be very pleasant for the government itself to empty it and for her to withdraw the request she made...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u295	This is not the case, the opposite is true!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u296	This is true, that's what we understood, you can have other interpretations. So she is compelled to withdraw the request she made for roll-call vote after some internal consultations, which I cannot imagine with whom they have taken place, although everyone can draw your conclusions. So I understand why you have come to a difficult position, I understand both the tension and the emotional burden, but you have to understand that the responsibility of the President of Parliament is clearly identified in the relevant Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure. But in addition to that, you also have an obligation to try to create a climate of consensus and consensus in this Chamber, how much more so when Members themselves do not give you rights to be able to speak in such an extreme and political manner and to dynamise procedures that were given in the parliamentary minutes. You don't have that right, Mrs. Constantopoulou, to do that. And I'm sorry to say it, but right now, you're not enjoying the full confidence of the House, and at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u297	Is that personal, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u298	I'll come to the staff, don't worry. Ten minutes the President spoke, I have two minutes. I'm sorry to say this, but two months later you don't enjoy the trust of at least the Officerial Representation, and I think you have a little more time to convince us that we're wrong. I'm coming to the staff now. You referred to a number of privileges that I am supposed to enjoy as a Member of Parliament, but obviously escaped you, Mrs Constantopoulos, the fact that four years ago, on my own initiative, I sent to all my fellow Members a letter asking us to resign our parliamentary cars and not to be paid for our participation in committees, because I thought - and I still believe that - that these are excessive privileges to Greece in the crisis. Where were you then, when I sent this letter and voluntarily resigned from the privileges that the Rules gave me? So? You weren't even in the House. You may not even be in the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u299	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u300	I am also asking for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u301	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u302	Please, sir! Please. Please. Quiet! I'm talking! Quiet! So be a little careful when you are talking about privileges, at least know the initiatives taken by Members, but I imagine that this debate is not pleasant to you, because most of the SYRIZA Members have not even embraced the Prime Minister's view of establishing a privileged resignation. And because there's always been, you know, individual responsibility, I'm thinking of you where you've been so long when you've been a MP and you're talking about privileges. So be a little careful when you talk to a Member who, through his own personal journey, has the opposite...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u303	But don't make a new argument, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u304	I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. So be a little careful when you talk about privileges, because you talk to a Member who has proved through his own route how the privileges are understood. Now, for all the rest, it is your right, you know, to make the best use of the premises of this House. History will judge you for that. I consider this to be a minor matter. In my view, rather empathy and petty shows, rather than real disposition for excesses such as the ones that Parliament needs today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u305	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u306	Can I have the floor now, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u307	Wait a minute! I am now presided over to explain and have the Rules of Procedure here. I understand that Mrs Constantopoulos - I am not saying 'Mrs. President' because she speaks from the chair - has asked for the floor on personal grounds and will precede Mr. Brutsis, Mr. Nicolopoulou and Mrs. Gerovasilis. Mrs Georgiovassilis, as a parliamentary representative, are you asking why? Because here I see that Mr. Friends is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u308	As a parliamentary representative, Mr President. There's a change paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u309	Paper to me has not come before now, but at any rate, until the other Members have spoken, I hope that it will be here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we do not take our own eyes off the prerogatives. And I want to tell you that the speech since 1990 has never taken a car. For the first time I went and called now, do you know why? To answer the populists. After twenty-three years of parliamentarians, I went and took a car now, no matter how much I would drive it and no one knew that I had never taken a car since 1990. Mrs Konstantopoulou, on personal grounds I assume you have asked for the floor. You don't have to explain it and you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. The first thing I would like to answer, looking at you, Mr Mitsotakis - and I will not only answer for myself, I will answer for all the Members of the SYRIZA - is that, as far as I know, there is not a single member of the SYRIZA who has taken it from SIEMENS. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There is not a single SYRIZA MEP who would have been a "SIEMENS" gift for his office. There is no single SYRIZA MEP who has undertaken to carry on SIEMENS or to collect black money for SIEMENS and then vote for unsatisfactory compromises that are null and void to the detriment of the people's interests and the social interest and burdening the budget and enforcing the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u311	The personal speech, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u312	Why didn't you tell the truth today? What has most disturbed you is not, of course, that there would be a roll-call vote, although this has tested your limits and your selective relationships. What has bothered you most is that it will be under the aegis of Parliament's audit of the debt and we will see who has charged you, we will see how the debt is estimated today, who has taken the loans, and for what purposes and for what contracts of the haters. And in order not to'spray' on this, it is not a move by Parliament that conflicts with the government, it is a move of Parliament which is required by the people and society and which is absolutely in the direction of contributing to the defence of the interests and rights of society and the people, which the government defends. In relation to the other privileges, I was referring to the statements made by Mrs Bakoyannis yesterday, which linked herself to the use by Mr Constantine Mitsotakis of an area in the House in his capacity as former Prime Minister. For the same site it has been mentioned in the same media hosting your statements that you and Ms. Bakoyannis are using it. I inform the House, because there is a great deal of misinformation: there are three former Prime Ministers who do not have a parliamentary status, Mr Papandreou, Mr Simitis and Mr Mitsotakis. I asked all three of them by letter to leave Parliament's premises and to release these spaces so that Members can have room to read the bills. I would like to believe that the Members here in this House, in contrast to the Members of other periods, will not vote inconsistently, will not say 'I have voted', but I have not read it, as some Members and ministers of previous periods have read. The answers I have received - because others are published in the media - are Mr Simitis, who reminds me that he has been the victim of a terrorist attack and therefore put me before my responsibilities for the choice of changing office, Mr Papandreou, who accepts to change office and calls for another place to be designated, and Mr Constantine Mitsotakis, who invokes his parliamentary history and calls for me to revise my decision. I would also like to inform you that I have long called for any kind of removal from the House's buildings in any way in any way whatsoever with this House for too long and I have been informed that they have been holding offices in Parliament's buildings, Mrs Damanaki and Mr Pangalos, and I have asked for them to be removed from the House, and I have been informed by the leaving Secretary-General that they have been removed. I am informed by the media that they have not been removed and that they are now being examined whether they will be removed. All this shows that within Parliament some have created a privileged status of chestnuts and barons, which is inconsistent with and inappropriate to democratic operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u313	What does the Member have to do with what he says now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u314	So I answer you on the prerogatives - I answer you, if you want us to specialise it more and I will claim it, if you insist - that I have found that we have reached the point that we have come to use Parliament's services for electronic information and for the use of various services, which the House pays for, unjustly persons - we will specify this more if you insist. But these kinds of prerogatives, not the SYRIZA MPs and not the President of the Parliament chosen by SYRIZA, who said he would break this regime and that abstention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u315	Mr President, please, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u316	Mr Mitsotakis, it is reasonable, because it was a lot of beginning to place Mrs Constantopoulos and I cannot give you the floor, but personal things end here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u317	Mr. President, mercy! What are we going to do with it, Mr President, in order to read the bills when we are not speaking?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u318	I am ashamed of colleagues who have seen them sitting in the morning, that the hours are spent and that ten people should not be spoken here to talk about personal things. Mr. Mitsotakis, I give you the floor for only two minutes. From that point on, I'm gonna turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u319	I am sorry that you have fallen so low, that you have resorted to such unacceptable personal designations, and indeed, unfortunately, with all your attitude, you are confirming exactly what I have said to you before. On the issues you have raised I have repeatedly answered, but I categorically deny that I have taken them from anyone and withdraw now. These are unacceptable things and they are unacceptable things to be said by a President of the House, who goes down to the chairs only for personal controversy. And, in any case, in this Chamber, ma'am, there is no family responsibility. You should understand that. If Constantine Mitsotakis enjoys a privilege after sixty years of parliamentary service it is because the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament allow it. And, if you want, change him. But you won't connect family members to these privileges. Let me make this clear once and for all. Because I can also make references to your family path. But I do not, because I know very well that there is no family responsibility. I am sorry, then, once again that you have fallen so low. Unfortunately you have again confirmed the great reservation, which is addressed by the House as a whole - and I fear many Members of the SYRIZA - despite the valuable effort that you have made to take on your side. It wasn't your best day today, Mrs. Constantopoulos, in the House. Another bad day I'd dare say. But to know that such personal reports are not going to be accepted, let alone when they are not supported by any real given given fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u320	Mr Brutsis, you have the floor, and I hope, as a parliamentary representative, that you have the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u321	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on what has been heard just before the President of Parliament, who is now a Member of Parliament. By listening to its sensitivity to the democratic, spontaneously speaking I come the word "teacher you have taught and law you do not prevail". And I say this because, in my capacity as the Parliamentary Representative of Officers, a few hours ago, for the first time in the history of this House, I have been deprived of the floor. This, apart from unauthorized, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u322	Mr. Brutsi, you'll allow me a 30-second interruption, because the kids will leave - I forgot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u323	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, fifty-five students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Heraklion Crete (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here you go, Mr. Brutsi, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u325	The second thing I would like to say about the procedure, Mr President, is that there was a great lie - unfortunately, I was underneath, I could not speak, it was my microphone closed - that the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy did not ask for the floor in time and when he asked for it was about 1,000 minutes an hour. Attention, I had asked for the floor to the second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Mitropoulos, when Mrs. Constantopoulos was absent. If, Mrs. Konstantopoulou, you do not speak with Mr. Metropoulou, it is your issue, but your personal relationship cannot prevent the normal functioning of the House. So what happened? Ladies and gentlemen, the simple thing has happened: the Prime Minister spoke, the procedure of the House was automatically suspended and a vote was requested. I agree with the views that have been heard that there has been an orderly logic in driving a picture in general that the New Democracy and other parties do not support the national effort. It is a great lie, it is a great mistake, I restore the truth once again - the rapporteur of the New Democracy said so - to get things in place: The New Democracy at the outset had clarified its position, that it is not SYRIZA, its political and parliamentary function will be completely different, it will be constructive, it will be useful and symbolic, in this first bill, which has a special symbolism to unite Parliament, it would be positive. And it is good, despite the objections, despite the differences we have in individual articles, which we are voting on and others are not voting on. I heard the Prime Minister very carefully. There was no reason to respond at that time. Some objections to the political speech expressed by the Prime Minister are, for example, that, in a huge, triumphant way, Mr Tsipras for this bill said that he is facing the humanitarian crisis and for the first time comes a bill that will solve the problems of the poor, when the previous one, the completely unsatisfactory government, the parties that enjoyed it, never showed any interest in the vulnerable social groups. Really? Let's see the reality. The Prime Minister, too, was calling for a national consensus and agreement. Really? If the Prime Minister was here now, would I ask him the simple thing: Two and a half years has there been a bill that, as chief of the opposition officer, supported it? Because there were bills, which were in the right direction, and they were also for vulnerable social groups. Really, is it that will solve the problem of society and vulnerable social groups, the humanitarian crisis? Does the Prime Minister know that the costing of this bill is 200 million, which is still being mentioned today, which we are in the procedure of the articles, has not been clarified from where there will be 200 million? In fact, we are talking about an 'empty shirt' and a 'white check'. Is the Prime Minister aware - because he raised this issue and asked for the New Democracy and the other parties to vote on a hundred instalments - that a very short, four months ago, the previous government brought another bill with very good reason in terms of the arrangements for late and tax and insurance? And then the post of the opposition officer was negative, he did not vote for it. Indeed, I have heard - and in a particularly provocative way for me - whether there was a reform in the previous government. Because it is, I believe, and tiring, but it also violates the logic and intelligence of each of us to say that there has been no reform work in the previous government, I will quite simply repeat that the history of the future will show that the previous government was the government with the biggest reform work in the country's post-government history. One example: Today it is a maximum hypocrisy to discuss the social crisis bill of EUR 200 million and to break down the greater social reform of the minimum guaranteed income. Here is an example that the Prime Minister should assess. But in order not to leave things like this, completely without the criticism that I have to say to you simply: for your vulnerable social groups, we have handed over social actions worth EUR 1.8 billion in progress. For example, the social dividend of 450 million, for example family allowances of 755 million, for example the voucher for the private sector and the unemployed at 200 million, for the public job of 210 million, the electricity supply. Six hundred thousand families today are maintained through the intervention made by the previous government to have power, and today you do not even catch the thirty thousand. EUR 160 million was provided for nurseries. All this was done through management and 2014 and 2015. I simply ask: is there one of these social actions of 1.8 billion voted by SYRIZA as opposition? Not one, ladies and gentlemen. This is the great qualitative, parliamentary, institutional difference of the New Democracy. From that point on, we heard Mr Voutsi, the Minister, suddenly put in place, take the floor, when the Internet began to nurture a genius that there is a reaction from Brussels from ex-institutional centres, institutional centres, that this bill is being prevented from being voted on and that unilateral action is being taken. I simply want to tell you this - it has been said, but I think it is very important: on 20 February our country made a central agreement. It is incomprehensible for anyone who has spent so many days since that critical date, which you have been saying that there was an agreement in Europe and that everything is now going well for the country, and that this agreement has not come to Parliament and that New Democracy with its MPs is forced to call through the parliamentary process for the text of the agreement to come to the House and a moment ago Mr Mitsotakis to present the English text of the agreement with a leak of the "Bang". Is this a parliamentary procedure, ladies and gentlemen? And the most unacceptable thing is to have an agreement that we do not know who it is and who you hold in your hands, which you are hiding from both Parliament and the Greek people. There's probably a hidden agenda that we don't know about. For the country you negotiate and agree, not for SYRIZA. And come to do it in an exhaustive 20-hour process, as it is said, within your party bodies and even vote for this country's agreement. At the same time hide this agreement, Mr Voutsi, from Parliament, which is the place that we all had to discuss together. Look, too many things have been said. It has been said that the government today, SYRIZA, most of all, has a political issue to bring the agreement, because a large part of its Members will not vote on it. It's a point of view. There is another view, however, which says that within this agreement, which we still do not know what is, there are signs, commitments of the country, budgetary measures, measures which the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group does not yet know and which have not seen the light of publicity and which the Greek people do not know what the country has agreed. So this is a major political issue which does not end here, it will continue. We will continue to ask for this agreement. We need to see it, not only for the parliamentary process, for the functioning of democracy, but also for the Greek people to know about the bilingualism that exists, but also for foreign and foreign. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say for two reasons on the issues which have been at political level recently. I note a study by the government to move under words, words that want to create an internal division, to entangle the Greek people, to put dilemmas of morality, national importance, words such as dignity, such as patriotism. I do not think there is anyone who believes it has greater sensitivity or greater dignity or greater faith in patriotism. Some of you put it when you were a Dedicated Opposition. Now you've found another reality. But let's see things a little opposite. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] Is it really dignity, is it patriotism today, which we are discussing this bill on the humanitarian crisis of 200 million who have not been found, a partial attitude of payments to hospitals, cotton producers, OPEKEPE, in critical social areas? Is it possible for this debate on the bill today, at the same time, to speak of dignity and patriotism? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Is it worthy and patriotism to lose EUR 10.8 billion from the Financial Stability Fund and go to the EFSF? Is patriotism and dignity in this two-month period to have emptyd the insurance funds and come by provision of this bill and ask in an indirect way to get the money available? Is patriotism and dignity for the Greek people to declare that you do not want to get a loan - the 7.2 billion I mean - and to come today and say 'no, we want them' and at the same time to talk about a bill for 200 million? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Is it possible to talk about dignity and patriotism of the Greek people, when, unfortunately, we are all absent, because, above all, our country unites us, we are all Greeks, and beyond our political differences, we want the good of our country, here are our families, here is our country, above all, Greece, beyond the ideological references of each of us - it seems that a financial derailment on the issues relating to the fiscal sizes of the country, the income of the funds, the income of the insurance funds? Look, we have a course ahead of us. Greece must go together. Operating institutions, act with a real patriotic sense and never return to logic that you will show with your finger some - I think it belongs to the past - to show them as unworthy, as people who do not love their homeland. Another thing: Don't ever make the mistake again - now you're government - if you ever find yourself in the opposition, functions of the state's institutions to denounce them and create movements, such as "I'm not paying", as was done with the previous regulation, and we now have the opportunity to discuss it in the regulation that you bring, and it was the result, which in the last quarter of 2014 and in the first two months of 2015 took place inhibiting, solved and suffocated the funds and insurance and taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u326	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr Voutsis, then Mr Nicholas, then Mrs Gerovasili and Mr Mardas have spoken. Here you go, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u328	I just want to answer something Mr Bruts and Mr Mitsotakis said. Then Mr. Mardas wants to talk. The formal text of the agreement, from the day after, was in knowledge in all languages, with official translations in all of us. That's clear. The 'communication' brought by Mr Mitsotakis or the 'other texts' do not concern us. This agreement will certainly be discussed in the House. The most likely is that it will not be put to the vote because we are going for the transitional agreement, the bridge agreement, on the basis of which the country is heading for the June strategic agreement with the institutions. There will obviously be - and if there are - any commitments in a positive direction to debt and other matters and they will, of course, come for a vote in this House. That's well known. There is no question about it, because this House is applying this agreement. Its implementation started with this bill, it will continue with the other bills from tomorrow morning. Three more bills have been posted. In other words, the implementation of these reforms, which are very clearly mentioned in this agreement, goes ahead. Whether there are political conflicts and, on the other hand, what Mr Moskovis has said yesterday is understood by what he said yesterday. It is a question of political confrontation which is most acute, which creates an international and pan-European field, but also in the country, if there is a will - and there is a will - by the Greek Government to express and implement the government's programming declarations, with absolute sympathy and agreement with this agreement of 20 February. Therefore, not only are there no protocols that you have implied, budgetary and other commitments of the country which you have also suggested. None of what you suggested was implied by the partner lenders. Just some of them at times, headed by the German Finance Minister, have their own viewpoints, objections and interpretations, if you would like their own alibis, either inside or abroad, in view of a completely bankrupt and undead political austerity that has been implemented and want to continue to apply in Europe. That's the real stake. Anyone who wants to talk about this issue of austerity or the continuation of restrictive policies. Find the courage and courage for what we have been telling you for two days now, speak and say to extend for our country, for example, the ECB pact that Mr Draghi has already implemented. These would be brave gestures on your part to show you really are on this side at the critical risk of continuing austerity for the country. The other thing is a fairy tale, it's a fantasy, it's a memorial finally repetition with other coatings for both the inside and the outside. Finally, you realise that this policy has been bankrupt, that there is no return to this policy that you have implemented in recent years, that we will bring nothing that reminds you of your own policies. The'red line' is clear: no continuation of austerity at any level. Step by step, even more slowly than we thought, the policies and reforms included in this 'bridge agreement' will be implemented. We will go to an agreement that will open the way not only for the long-term government we said at noon, but indeed for the relief of the people and for there to be expectations and hope for the people from June onwards. These are the real issues on which you are invited to place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronics VENIZELOS" and after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-five students and students and three teachers from the 3rd High School of Heraklion Crete (B'). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u330	Ladies and gentlemen, just to strengthen the view expressed by the Greeks, I will tell you that I, too, wanted to speak before the vote - it was not just the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy - but 'not the Venice spear'. He spoke, he said his views now and, indeed, we heard that he is together - he says - with the new government and they support - he says - this national effort, although everything that was heard as arguments from the Step and from the morning barracks, they say that by following the course of the Tsipras government, we are going very quickly 'on the rocks'. How come one and the other? What can I tell you? That is why I said that from the nutrition it seems that we are now leading to paranoia or "the great grief of sorrow gives rise to insanity". And it was an insanity what we saw today. We have never lived in the House before, because they probably wanted to cover the first proposal of the Prime Minister, who said: "You know, today you have a bill made by the hand of Greeks." The Prime Minister said it and repeated it twice. Some believed that by doing these unnecessarily and cause unprecedented fightings would thus cover this new great, new starting point, with all its symbolisms. He said the victor of the Step "protagonist" in the tragedy of workers living: "We did well and better than you." It reminded me of that advertising of a detergent: 'It makes them invisible'. You made them invisible, it turns out, because the Greeks never saw them! He also said about the cotton producers - he didn't know - that they took the money. But he tells you, you're not bored, we're gonna say a word now. Let's call it. As Mr Venizelos said, there are no auctions and that he had solved this issue. And now came Thanasis Papachristopoulos, our fellow Member, from Luke, from the Peace Court where he had gone with other citizens and prevented it until - and it seems to be the 'until' of 'until', since he said and heard it today - the new government will come to protect the first residence. But he didn't care about Mr. Venizelos, since he knew it had been over since 31 December, since we told him 15 times. But he tells you I'll tell you now, you're not bored. Some underneath will start screaming. The privileged will also speak of non-preferentials! That's good, too, isn't it? We've lived that too! The privileged people spoke about non-preferentials just now, from this Step here. If that's possible! The people who entered the government from young people to large state organizations, and if it were the opposition party to the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u331	A little louder, we can't hear you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u332	You'll hear it, my Costa. It was an adversary to you, Kostas, that you went and said with me "Averof means power". For my colleague, he could be a good rehabilitation, with a wage - he says - 5 000 euros, 10,000 euros. But he says, I don't want the privileges. Why, of course, we want to go back to the House of Lords, to the fireplaces, to those who have sponsors! You know, there in Patraikos there are fish trawlers coming out to Patraikos and picking up whatever it is, maid, but also big fishes, cafeterias and bigger things. They think we don't know or think they'll always have immunity. Today, after a whole year, Mr Ministers, I was invited to go to the Police Department of the Syntagma Square, after a year just after I had gone and sued one of the known people in Greece, because I exercised parliamentary control over fuel trading and because, in my public speech, I referred to them and to some conviction they had. And he texted me my phone with his name and I went right to the police station. I was talking to the Minister, with the Chief of Police. They didn't find him, he says. I told them "from cigar, don't you smell after you tell me he's already left any traces"? Two days they didn't know the house, they weren't looking for him. What happened a year later, I got summoned? I salute it, I don't say it ironically. A year later, today, I was summoned - he says - to say supplementary. But I don't know what, I'll tell you next time, because I didn't go today because of the bill. Today the public prosecutor also invited me for all the questions we had asked here and asked for documents. In the second chapter you say interesting things and say to some colleagues: 'But why should it be abolished, do you know what important work the coordinator has done?' Yes, it could be converted into an IKK, CKK. He did seminars. That's not what I'm saying. I officially went with cameras. I have given him the material that I have already delivered to the new government through parliamentary control, not through other procedures. And he tells me: “What should I do? I have no competence." George Sourlas said the same thing to me, as Mr Tendes said. So I believe that what we are voting on today is not because we want to upgrade the IEK or the KEK to the TEI or to the HEI, but because we really want to hit corruption and conflict with it. Ladies and gentlemen, is the ones who hid the uterus of evil in May 2010 from Parliament now pushing for its legitimacy through this extension? I think that is why Mr Venizelos and some of his colleagues are saying it. That's why he wants the deal to come here. That is why both Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos and Mr Potami, in close proximity, want to come by nails and teeth to vote for it, to vote for the extension of the loan agreement with increased - probably - by a majority, in order to launder their crime, if they do not, Madam President, get away with the examinations. That's why they do it. You think they're doing it because they want to know? We when we asked them here to bring the loan contracts, never brought them. Have they ever been brought to read them? Did they ever bring them here? You know, Mr Venizelos brought the loan one night by means of a legislative act. Do you know where he brought her? He brought her to the Alzheimer's law! Can you believe it? I'm telling you the truth. Look it up. How, then, will justice demand investigation and punishment for the crime of the memorandum, if this extension - which was eaten by Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Georgiadis close - came here and gathered the majority? So we have heard Mr Venizelos also speak, the man who has even promoted the amendment of the loan contract as an act of law. It calls for the adoption of this simple extension - as Minister Voutsis said a moment ago - from the House when the main convention has not even passed! In order for both Greeks and Greeks to listen to it, I stress it. Do you think they're legal illiterate? Do you think they're delusional? Do you think it is a trap that they want to set up in the Greek people like the trap they have tried today with all these parliamentary irregularities that we have done and lived today? You think they want to do the same? If, Madam President, the microphones and the Minutes are recorded and captured, what these supposedly serious people, those who are not populists, the serious people who come out of the morning at the MEGA - and they say we populists - will actually understand what the Greeks say at the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u333	We were unconscious. We didn't go to dismantle the benches.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u334	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard the Potami say that the bill is being passed. We're happy about that. It is possible, however, as soon as yesterday - I read the Minutes - that this Step says the Member representing the Potami 'do not represent the belligerents and the country is constantly isolated. We must not use people's anger for political purposes. Is this going to come back boomerang and far faster than some people think?" And what did he say on behalf of the Imitasion, the mutated New Democracy, the representative? There's two or three now. "Decide to take responsibility for you." I'm reading you from the Minutes. Now did we take her together? How did it happen? So you can tell us. When are you telling the truth, when are you lying? 'All that we are voting on here is not a matter for the country to stop financing.' I read the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us the Independent Greeks we are participating in, who support this new government of social salvation, have made our own way out with the expectation of our contribution to the creation of a human society, a solidarity society. We are fully aware that these measures proposed to tackle the humanitarian crisis, to deal with this tragedy that the people live in, are only a very small sample, of course, which has its own symbolic importance and as much as some of you have tried to deceive today, it is certain that no one is following you. Did you hear what terror Mr. Venizelos talked about? Why would she be afraid of the elections? Because he knows that he is not going to be in this Chamber again, since everything already shows that the people have made their own decision and in this decision we are all counting by voting for this first bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Mrs Olga Gerovali, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u336	Madam President, I asked for the floor before when Mr Mitsotakis raised the personal issue and I would like to say two things for two minutes, expressing many other Members present. We note this: Mr Mitsotakis has asked for the floor on staff in order to make personal attacks on the President of Parliament. They take the floor of spokesmen of the New Democracy, who also start on a large part of their speech, doing the same thing, that is, personal attacks on the President of the Parliament. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the tactics of the political opponent's payoff on staff is one way followed by the New Democracy. Today he deceives the Minister of Finance in the same way, playing a game of decommissioning of institutions against the political opponent that SYRIZA and the SYRIZA government are today. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has not suffered amnesia - I say it because they come here as'repressed', 'expressed', 'drug', 'drug', and the Bureau and we all the rest of the SYRIZA - we do not forget, we have not forgotten the deportation of democracy, the depreciation of parliamentaryism and the absence of the Prime Minister. As long as Alexis spoke to date, Tsipras was present throughout the previous term of office, Mr. Samaras was present. I would therefore like to say that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group does not accept suggestions of morality, behaviour and democracy. Of course, the New Democracy tactics in personal deportation will not find allies, as they wish, within the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. This practice must be stopped, because it is disgraceful about the procedures and of course it cannot be tolerated by the Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. The floor has been asked by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Mardas. Mr Marda, would you like the floor for a five-minute speech or for your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u338	I want the floor for a three-minute intervention, on what has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u339	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, when the issue of the humanitarian crisis in the groups of Parliament was being discussed, I had made a detailed presentation on where 200 million can come from, which is not a great deal of money to talk about. Mr Brutsis, who might not have been there, came here and raised the question again that we do not know where this money comes from. I repeat what I had said in general. Of the 200.3 million 20 million will be provided by the Ministry of National Defence. Of the rest, with the help of a method that has never been used in the General Accounting Office of the State, where there are various things that are unprecedentedly happening, I can tell you, which relate to cost savings, without the public losing any public goods - it is unlikely that what I am saying to you - will be saved from a set of government supplies of about 4/5 and the rest of 1/5 from a set of consumer needs. We did not make a linear reduction, and we said we would reduce the commissions by 10% -15% in all the ministries. We have taken the help of a specific method and in the context of a non-linear reduction from somewhere we have reduced a great deal, and from somewhere we have reduced fewer, taking into account a set of factors that there is no reason to repeat them. Therefore, money can be found. One will tell me: 'But how will the citizen not be deprived?' And that's where we responded. We're coming to state supplies. There are modern methods of tendering, with the help of which we can save money, without leading to a reduction in the purchase of materials and services. That's not amazing, which is what it sounds. I note that in a study carried out in the European Commission much earlier it has been mentioned that if modern methods are applied, which will lead to improved competition, public procurement can be reduced, public procurement budgets may be reduced by 25% in terms of costs, without reducing the supply of goods, services and works. We did not even touch 7% -8% of the reduction. Therefore, it is easy to find them and since I have the floor, and I have some time to tell you how we are now operating in the General Accounting Office of the State. We have taken a set of codes that are four thousand seventy-seven-seven lines referring to non-wage costs and we have taken a line per Ministry and see the costs that have been incurred and through this process we will lead to new expenditure reductions, to say better new waste reductions. For example, if you go to the Price Observatory even now in the Committee on Health Procurement, you will see that in many categories of material there are prices that are twenty-fold higher than those on the market. We have published these since 2011, previously, having the place at the University of Thessaloniki. You understand that when a material costs 25 euros and is announced at the Prices Observatory 330 euros if we manage to download these prices, we will buy the same material ten and twenty times cheaper than it is bought today than it was in the process that was under way. In addition, I tell you, to understand where money can be saved and without much effort, that seven hundred and ninety-two policemen have been released from the storage of various people. They will replace the private guards of the ministries. This is a subset of some millions that is part of an account of around 54 million euros. We do not have the size, but, in any case, you understand that the seven hundred ninety-two, who were lost to the right and left, will be placed in positions that we now pay from the state budget and tomorrow's budget, when the conventions expire, we will not pay, and that is money that can be used elsewhere, even to increase the small sum we have in connection with humanitarian aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u341	Thank you, Deputy Minister of Finance, Dimitris Marda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u342	Questions to the Minister can we ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u343	Let us continue with the list of speakers. I would just like to inform you, because there has been talk of privileges, that the first speaker on the list was Mrs Merope Jufi. As far as I am aware, there has been a facility from the point of view of the Chair and Mr Aygeakis, who then changed with Mr Mitsotakis, and Mr Athanasios, who were not here, when their name was called and who was given the opportunity to speak before the start of the list. That's right. But we have to talk about it so that people don't show up as wrongdoers. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor. I shall then give the floor to the Minister, Mr Xanthos. I don't know if he's in the bench. He asked to speak beforehand. Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami, Mr Theocharis, has also asked for the floor, but he is not in the Chamber. Finally, I see the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolakou, is asking for the floor. As far as I understand it, you are asking the floor for some clarification from the Minister. After Mrs. Jufi, clarification may be requested. I think the Minister has no objection. Isn't that right? That's how it used to be. You remember that, Mrs Manolakou. We asked for clarification and we were not given the floor. I say it, let's talk about differences.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u345	Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u346	Thank you, Madam President, for the opportunity to contact Parliament for the first time. Obviously, some of the things I will say have been said before in the committees that I have participated in and may not be so important, since dialogue has now taken on clear political features. Nevertheless, I will try to say my thoughts on this humanitarian crisis bill, as it is the government's first bill and as has been said by many, it must be seen as just an initial step towards the immediate relief of families who live in conditions of absolute poverty. This is a political act of necessity in very difficult circumstances and yet a systematic effort is being made not to complete, by conducting and promoting various extortion at international level, but today also within the Parliament of our country. This is evolving, although everyone knows that according to official figures, after hard six-year austerity policies, our country is recorded in the largest poverty group in the European Union, in the worst position in terms of the risk of poverty, with a greater reduction in social spending in the euro area and a rapid increase in the rates of child poverty. I would like to try to provide concrete evidence in order to demonstrate why the term 'humanist crisis' is right, which, by some, was considered to be a pointless one and others, was described as a tool for the search for the charity of strangers. The implementation of the previous programme of hard budgetary discipline by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK, with the direct guidance of the European neoliberal elite, through the dramatic worsening of all the key social health indicators, which are work, living conditions, access to food, water and electricity, has led to a serious health and social-democratic crisis, that is, what we call the 'humanist crisis'. More specifically, we had an increase in neonatal mortality, an increase in births of deficient pupils, a reduction in births - and thus deaths exceeded births - an increase in the mortality of elderly and elderly people, an increase in in infectious diseases, increased mortality from them due to the collapse of the prevention system and a recurrence of forgotten infectious diseases. I shall, however, return to the most dramatic fact, in my opinion, which is the rapid increase in child poverty, which touches half a million children, especially divided into one-parent households, with constant growth in recent years. It is the one that primarily aims to deal with this bill, as it has both direct and long-term dramatic consequences. It leads to poor health, to an increase in obesity due to a shift in low-cost unhealthy and poor-quality foods, while at the same time there is growing, worsening, to the phenomenon of real malnutrition, as a thousand schools across Greece seekers of food aid. It also leads to an abandonment of education and training, long-term unemployment of these children and long-term dependency on their parents and possibly an increase in delinquency and dependency. The proposed draft law therefore constitutes the first obstacle to the fight against the force of the humanitarian crisis, as I have tried to prove with the above data and is, above all, aimed at families and children in the situation of extreme poverty. To give specific criteria, based on the scientific data presented, is not easy and can not only be income-efficient, but must also be complemented with social exclusion, and national specificities must also be taken into account. Therefore, this bill aims to cover at least one hundred and fifty thousand households, mainly families with minors or weak dependent members, and aims to meet their main needs, such as food, housing, electricity supply, while in a subsequent bill the necessary measures for health coverage and travel will be included. You will allow me, despite my youth - I mean the youth of the appearance in this House - to comment on some of the positions of counter-population. I would like to return the designation of "political hypocrisy" as an inappropriate fact, because I think it does not concern us, as it states that the bill is to be passed, with full, but most of the speakers want this bill not to be implemented, to justify the political choice of the full subordination that has taken place in the extreme austerity path, with open positions of intimidation of the Greek people. Potami is, unfortunately, on the same line, with a long pitfall argument and ending intimidation. He said: 'Although the country's finances will not fall out, their insistence on a possible confrontation with the lenders can lead to an accident and the poor will pay for it first of all'. And finally, I'll say two words about PASOK. I am sorry, but unfortunately it cannot be understood that everything that does not contain it deserves to be implemented, after so many years in power at all costs and blames us for the lack of a road map, because the train driver, with the will of the Greek people, has chosen a different route. Emphaticly, it distorts the truth, calling the cowardice "realism", the submissive "art of practicable" and the questioning of austerity "destruction", while he told us here about the destruction of our place in fifty days from the rule of SYRIZA. In conclusion, then, there is an attempt to create a general climate, both depreciation of the bill - 'it is a little, cuffy, crunchy, fragmentary' - and fear that the government will not go ahead either in this little or in the others that will follow and then fear the Greek people who dared to impress and proudly raise their heads, first the one by the people of Europe and question the memorial policy of the one-way austerity. We will, however, insist on its rapid, correct and fair implementation, immediately after its vote, by evaluating and compensating all other financial instruments, by coordinating interventions and by cooperating with other bodies, under the heading of overall and mutual responsibility, so as to benefit vulnerable groups and low incomes. This draft law can also be an opportunity for the creation of a single, reliable database, in order to pursue sound policies, by recording existing structures per region and municipality, by creating a single network of horizontal and vertical cooperation between actors at regional level and with the Ministry having a coordinating role. This synergy concerns not only the registration of the poor and despised as an absolute number, but also the measurement of the size of vulnerability and the definition of combined priority criteria. We must hurry and not give in to extortion, since every day we are delaying the daily lives of their families and children who are in absolute poverty are becoming increasingly worse and their survival is immediately threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. I will give the floor to another speaker. Two Ministers, Mr Xanthos and Mrs Fotou, have then asked for the floor, who wants to make available amendments to Parliament. Then I will give the rapporteur of the Communist Party the floor to Mrs Manolakou, so that she may also include any clarification she wishes to ask the other two Ministers. And then I will give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman for the River, Mr Theocharis, for dentistry - I think - or protology. We'll see. Mrs Helen Fisherea has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u348	Thank you, Madam President. Good evening. First of all, like society, it has fought and strived for Greece to be a lighthouse throughout Europe against austerity, against the memorial policies, so we must fight for that purpose. Previously, we had the accusations of the New Democracy and of the PASOK procedure. These categories are lacking in substance and are impressive. The impression reached the point that SYRIZA should be accused of being the person of the President. SYRIZA, who has fought with deeds and has fought for fascism, racism, discrimination, hatred and not words. You, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, have imposed the anti-democratic policy of the memorandums, undermining democracy itself. The bill. The humanitarian crisis bill aims to face a reality that is present in the daily life of a large part of society that experienced and experienced impoverishment. In a short time Greek society has been faced with the inability of the state to guarantee basic human rights, thus leading to a society of the poor, a society of tolerance, precariousness and great inequality. Without people standing on their feet, without being able to ensure a decent living, it is difficult to fight for the continuous improvement of their living conditions and to participate in social movements against neoliberalism. We need to clarify exactly what a humanitarian crisis means and what it has caused it. Greece has not suffered theorem, tsunami or war in the last five years. But there was a form of economic and social war, which caused these results. It was the aggressive policy of the lenders and the Greek economic elite, who gigged redundancies and unemployment, who cut down on living incomes, destroyed the already vulnerable social state in Greece and made workers and workers poor. Partys such as the New Democracy and the PASOK are not entitled to shed crocodile tears for the bankruptcy of a large part of society, which they themselves have provoked with their policies. It was the memorial policies that led to the dismissal through the measure of the availability of thousands of workers and workers. These policies aimed at dismantling the sector, abolishing labour rights, supported - and continued to support - both the PASOK and the New Democracy and the Potami. This party is coming today to talk about the minimum guaranteed income, while until yesterday the Secretary-General of Income of the Ministry of Finance and now the Member of the Potamian Parliament, Mr Theocharis, consented to the dismissal of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, for which his vision seems to have been the minimum guaranteed income. It is therefore important to say that there is a need for a comprehensive change in the policies planned in a social and anti-monetary direction, so that after a period of time people do not need humanitarian support, but that they can work with full work, insurance and social rights and without receiving humanitarian or voluntary support. The best humanitarian policy is the one that will tend to abolish the need for humanitarian policy. She is the one who will remove the forces of work from the margin and make them proud, dignified and practically leading in the Greek society. It must be stressed that supporting a series of policies to exit the humanitarian crisis well presupposes cooperation between all public bodies, as well as cooperation with other supporting bodies, but we are completely separated from the logic of charity and philosopher groups of the 19th century and the early 20th century. In our own logic those who do not have income and need this extraordinary support are and must be treated as proud people who have suffered a devastating policy for their lives and not as victims or even more people who have failed economic and socially. They have not failed or effectively managed themselves. What failed in a deafening way is the strategy of neoliberalism and the political leaderships of the European Union internationally, and especially in Greece. These policies will be abolished immediately. In particular, for the draft law, as emerged from the consultation process, disabled people and other vulnerable groups and groups subject to discrimination must be subject to this bill or to a next specific favourable approach immediately, in accordance with the general logic of the affirmative measures for equality. On the issue of the health care of the unemployed, the uninsured arrangements of the bill are in the right direction. There is a need for a provision covering all existing needs. Everyone who is unemployed, unemployed, uninsured, uninsured with uninsured healthbooks should be able to view their booklets without conditions as the conditions of very high unemployment or even non-working often entail the total absence of a daily wage. The arrangements under this bill are also important to be accompanied by an information campaign, as those who experience extreme poverty have been forced to live on the margins of society excluded from information, state intervention and welfare. The government's initiative - and I conclude - to tackle the humanitarian crisis is the starting point for opening up the road to the relief of the affected socially vulnerable groups, starting up the conditions for social inclusion, reintroduction into the labour market and the social and productive reconstruction of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u349	Thank you, Mrs. Fishera. Mr Andreas Xanthos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u350	You said 'two Members'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u351	I did say 'two Members'. The next Member is Mr Thomas Kotsias. Are you protesting on his behalf?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u352	No, of course not. I'm saying that, so that the list can go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u353	Well, I can wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u354	Good. Here you go, Mr. Kotsia. Mr. Thomas Kotsias has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u355	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the tabling of today's bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis. I hope, and I look forward to continuing in response to the expectations of our people with similar bills, which confirm their expectations of a different policy towards the policies of destruction and the memoranda. We're not talking about words, Mr. Mitsotakis. We're talking about human lives! Because it has been said before that we are talking about words here. As a new MEP from Evrytania, I transfer the painful experiences from my place and the consequences of the devastation policies that many still call "saving". The hospital, health centers, rural hospitals have been completely dissolved without doctors and nurses. Ambulances are left with fuel and depend on the good intention of individuals or entities in my prefecture to respond to a few litres of gasoline. The elderly - in the villages in particular - are in despair. The municipalities, too, are at a dead end and are unable to meet the obligations you have given them without resources. The last catastrophic floods have even exacerbated people’s lives even further and have reached despair. Villages and networks destroyed, houses demolished in a state of economic suffocation to meet people's needs. And while all this is happening as a result of this policy that has been pursued in recent years, I am saddened by the image of Members who are unconscious of their responsibilities, who are looking for procedural obstacles, paying attention to comments and regularities, to degenerate parliamentary dialogue, when such bills are even being discussed. I would expect, especially after the reactions and blackmails that exist in our country, by considering unilateral actions the right of people to survive, that there was more seriousness and aggregation of the government and the opposition to react to such imperial approaches and imperial perceptions towards our country and our people, beyond and outside ideological and political differences, and not to rejoice and shake our fingers because we are Europe's 'naughty children'. Those who have lost your soul and your humanity may find excuses to disagree with such bills and similar legislative initiatives of today’s government. We will continue, with a reference point to society and its needs. You continue with your priorities so far and everyone has joined. Over the last fifty days, a problem that fantasized as a purely economic problem in Greece became a pan-European political problem with global implications. We realize that this difficult and drugged road will be determined and responsible, on our own, with our people alone. It remains for you to decide whether to get together or work, consciously or unconsciously, as representatives of blackmailers who dictate bills and policies. Stay in your ungrateful role and we get the trust of our people, even all these humble people who see their homes bounce down - and I have lived it these days in our country - and yet without shelter, without networks, without food, without anything, their concern was not to back up. That's what people are telling me who don't belong in SYRIZA, ordinary people, proud, who say, "Don't back off! We are close to you." They're people who didn't even vote for SYRIZA. However, they experience within them and feel that, at last, there is a government that resists giving.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr. Thomas Kotsia. Mr Andreas Xanthos has the floor. Mr. Xanthi, would you like to speak or speak five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u357	To present an amendment. I will only need five minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u358	Madam President, I too would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u359	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u360	Thank you, Madam President. In the past few days, we have presided over the members of the committees who discussed the bill that we would table a package of amendments that we thought were of an urgent nature and also related to the bill, in the sense that they have solved problems with the functioning and strengthening of the public health system, which we very well understand is coming to play a very crucial role in this period of the humanitarian crisis. Due to a load of amendments from all the ministries, we have finally chosen to table an amendment and the others will be incorporated into a bill from our Ministry, which will be prepared for the next period and which will cover the universal health care of the population and the strengthening of public care. The amendment we have chosen to table is very critical and concerns the extension of the term of office of subsidiary staff of all categories - doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, assistant staff - which is currently serving in public hospitals. We believe that we have no room during the year to have a bleeding of human resources from the health system. We've described the image too many times. I think the previous colleague has said so very clearly. We have a health system in full disorganization and especially in the province of collapse. We are fighting a very great battle, along with the workers in the system, to keep public structures up so that people who have no choice but to receive public care can feel security and dignity when approaching the health system. In fact, we are in a very critical phase and we need targeted interventions. As we have said before, we will try to speed up the recruitment procedures for ancillary staff, which unfortunately is a one-way path at this juncture, so that we can have a quick coverage of the gaps. Obviously we are interested in meeting the constant and constant needs of hospitals, health centers and primary care structures with permanent staff. However, today of the health system there are about twenty thousand people, doctors and other staff who have been removed in recent years because of retirement, they have not been replaced and simply covered by certain gaps with repeated contracts. However, since the recruitment process is really very long, I would simply say that to hire an ancillary doctor, who is supposed to meet an unforeseen and urgent need in the system, it takes an average of three and a half months to four months and you realize that every sense of urgency has been lost, that every concept of emergency is being cancelled. We have therefore worked out changes that will speed up this process too much. They will speed up the selection board's operating process. We are increasing the possibility of hiring with an increase in the age limit for the introduction into the health system. We will address the issues of the supply of primary care units, because it proved that the DSOs were unable to meet their needs this year, with an extension until the end of the year, etc. We believe that what the health system needs today, aware of the seriousness and the criticality of the period, is an emergency plan that will allow public care to remain upright and functioning in our country. This is what we are working on, working with all the forces of the health system, with doctors and other workers, and we want to implant another working and social ethos into the health system. We believe that this top political priority is offensive to some being viewed as a unilateral energy or a financial derailment. We believe that both the humanitarian crisis bill and the other interventions that will be followed for the universal health coverage of the population are fundamental measures of self-protection of society and cannot be put into any sort of negotiating balance. It is a matter of survival, social cohesion, dignity and democracy for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u361	Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I think that what you have said shows that the amendment you are proposing is the definition of the amendment that is allowed to be linked to the bill and because of its relevance and because of the urgency and therefore my proposal as President to this House is to be accepted. Then the relevant Minister, Mr Fotou, has asked for the floor - we will proceed with the procedure we have previously said - which wants to speak on the amendments he will accept. Parliamentary amendments, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u362	Congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u363	And then we have said that Mrs Manolakos will take the floor on the clarifications she wanted to ask for, then she is the Parliamentary spokesman of the Potamian and on the length of Mr Kotsia's speech, and Mrs Bakoyannis has asked for the floor. Mrs. Bakoyannis, they realized that you requested the floor for proposed dentology,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u365	...but then you said you were asking for staff. They did not see that there was any staff during Mr Kotsia's speech, but I will give you the floor in that order to expose the staff. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, Mrs Fotou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u366	Madam President, I would like to inform the House that I accept and propose the following amendments to this House: Firstly, the parliamentary amendment number five, in the short term, tabled it by twenty-three Members - from what I see here - of SYRIZA, Kyritakis, Amanatidou, Gatis, Georgopoulos, Zanna, Zacharias, Iglezi, Kawadi, Kara Yusuf, Katharif, Kodela, Mekopoulos, Michalakis, Michelogannakis, Balaouras, Petrakos, Polakis, Stamatakis, Sotirio, Triantafyllou, Charalapidou, Psarra. It concerns the consolidation of the wage regime for workers in Dependent Prevention Centres in the context of normalisation of the operation of structures. Secondly, the long-term amendment number 10 by Mr Leucakou and Mrs Charalapidou Despos. This is the same as that of net wages for the benefit of the public-private schemes as the minimum net wage for workers paid at the minimum wage. Also, Amendment No 11 by Mr Skoufa, Mr Xanna and Mr Tsakalis. For school-year 2013-2014 transport contracts. It is a proposed amendment - adding to the existing article as follows: ‘Studies for the transfer of schoolchildren for the year 2013-2014 concluded by the regions concerned, without complying with the provisions of Article 278 n. 3852/2010 are considered legal.’ The amendment under number 23 by Mr Kafantaris, Mr Panza, Mr Statha, which Mr Kegeroglu has said is also supported. Mr Kegeroglu, if I may, it will be done with a legislative improvement where he says: 'The institution is temporarily run by a five-member board of directors', etc. And finally, where it says that 'the term of office of the members is two years'. Finally, it is an amendment tabled by the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Zacharias. It has already been announced in its written speech, but also in all the committees, which have the subject of 'implementing actions and social policy programmes by the regions', and of the Committee of the Regions. It is parallel, if you like, to Article 5 of the Humanitarian Crisis Legislation, which enables regions to implement actions of these programmes, to conclude programme contracts with public enterprises and public utility organisations, as identified by the latter. 3429/2005. That is what I wanted to say, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u367	Madam Secretary, are these costly?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u368	They have no financial costs. You know that, the last one. All the others have no financial costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u369	The simulations don't have one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u370	None, because simulation is to be paid back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u371	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Mrs Manolakou has the floor for the clarifications she wanted to ask the Minister, Mr Marda. But if you want, you can ask for further clarification, because the rapporteurs must have this possibility when they are proposing to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u372	Thank you. From the detailed information you have given us, Minister, it seems clear that expenditure on financing this bill has been set aside for anticipated revenue rather than for existing revenue. I would like to ask you how quickly you will have them, as they concern the next nine months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u373	Mr. Mardas has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u374	Very quickly, I'll answer. It's not on expected revenue. The 180 million are currently in the country's budget. The other things I have told you are an expected reduction in costs. I think I'm clear. Can I also refer to an amendment, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u375	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u376	I am referring also to an amendment to Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure. No 2369/1997, which - it's not something new, of course -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u377	What amendment, if only, would you clarify, because we have suffered in this Chamber in a previous period, when the ministers referred to amendments to ghosts that we did not find. If you want, say the number and what amendment it is. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u379	The most important amendment on the immunity of bankers has been passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u380	My amendment refers to paragraph 11 of Article 15 of the n. Regulation (EC) No 2369/1997. It is Amendment No 15. He doesn't mention anything new. It simply says that the cash assets of legal persons governed by public law can be deposited with the Bank of Greece and from there on can be used on markets of different securities. If you want, the innovation in the amendment lies in the fact that if there are losses, the state comes to take responsibility for these losses. Already this method has been used since 2004 to buy repos that started from EUR 3 billion and reached EUR 8.6 billion at the end of last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u381	Minister, I would ask you to explain the urgency and relevance, because these are the conditions for the amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u382	The urgency is that in the Bank of Greece we have interest rates starting from 2.3% to 2.5% while in commercial banks, as you know, these deposits do not have more than 0.5%, 0.6%, 0.7%, go to 1% and a little more. So far, we think that the loss of some millions of euros would be a good thing to deal with in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u383	The relevance to the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u384	Relevance to this bill is just to the extent that some money is ever needed, this money can be found from these accounts and institutions can have any time they want their money, as when they invest in repos, as you know, these securities are of a very short duration, ten to fifteen days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u385	Minister, I think that further clarification may be needed. The reason for this is the Parliamentary spokesman for the River - I think I am not forgetting any of the order we have announced - Mr Theocharis. Mr Theocharis, you have not taken the lead in the debate at this sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u386	I'll be brief as long as I can...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u387	For there to be more parliamentary speeches, according to what you said yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u388	That's right. In fact, this morning, we mentioned it and of course I believe that the Members should speak more. A few words, then, I will say to Mrs Fishrea - because she raised an issue in her previous speech - with the opportunity to take the floor. There was no point in interrupting. He referred to the issue of cleaners. We should understand that the role I played as Secretary-General for Public Revenue was an executive role. I didn't even have executive power. I had the obligation to respect the government's decisions. The decision on cleaning houses was a political decision taken by the previous government. If you want, what I paid - although many people told me - is that I treated them as a human being. I was the only one who agreed to see them, the only one who tried to explain the procedure, the methodology, the decisions and my opinion about what would happen later and keep them informed of this. It's the only thing I actually pay. They have often seen how this effort of mine, to explain what the situation was, was my decision. It is often difficult to distinguish the messenger from the message, but unfortunately there are times when we should all be in this situation. We will wait for the government to give any solution to this issue. I should like to go further into what I wanted to talk about. Madam President, a ghost is deceiving over Greece. It is the ghost of the loss of control over the economy and ultimately of the country, of the accident that can lead us outside the Eurozone. We need to be careful. It is sometimes that a "battery", while he is right to lose because of his ways or his mistakes, his right. This must not happen in the country. This must not happen in the effort we are doing and we must lose our right. We cannot be in a situation where we lose from an ally even Cyprus. Think about it. It is not even possible for the Cypriot Minister for Finance not to understand what we are asking for. We must not be in a position to set our strategic goals, to define what we will be happy about. The government must not be in this position. Communication should not encapsulate the substance, words should not encapsulate concepts. We, on the river, have asked you to bring this deal. He is here and Mr. Voutsis, who has spoken to us about unilateral acts of foreigners against us. The fact that our actions, our actions or theirs are unilateral is also relevant to this agreement. Bring her in at last. You've said that. Bring her, even for a debate in the House. I know you say that there is this agreement in the media, there is in the packages that the Minister has given, but it is not the same as bringing the text of the agreement to the House to see and agree. It has to happen. We can't leave it like this. So bring this deal. Come to discuss this agreement - which you have rightly or badly done and signed the Greek Government - and when it is not kept on the side of us chasing them together, when it is not kept on our side to remind you and to tell you that we do not comply with an agreement that we have signed here. But it is not possible to allow the debate to be misled so and to ask for our help when you have not even brought the agreement. We asked you to stop being opposition government. Don't look at the lights like rabbits. We have tabled to the Government concrete reform proposals and public opinion. Try and start them fast. Minimum guaranteed income, independence of tax administration, ‘split’ of sinful triangle policy, banks and SMEs by regulating the television landscape, the announcement of permits and the control of credit flows to SMEs. Don't stop. Do it. We also made a full proposal on the reform of public administration and speeding up the process. Go ahead with the changes he needs and you'll find the allies, but do it. We see you reluctantly and we have seen you for fifty days feeding the world dignity. This is going to end sometime. When the plate is empty, dignity is not enough. She needs something else, too. You brought a bill with five articles on the humanitarian crisis that we all agree on. There are people out there who don't have the head bed. You brought a bill on the humanitarian crisis with five articles on the crisis at forty. Two hundred million - according to the General Accounting Office - are giving the humanitarian crisis. Forty million - at least - because there are many amendments or other provisions which have not been costed by the General Accounting Office are in the rest. Outside the humanitarian crisis is forty million. Think about what message this gives society. I shall say a few words about the articles and I shall end, Madam President. I have, of course, specifically spoken about the articles, so I will mainly speak of the amendments that have been tabled. We propose to add an article "NERIT S.A. Renamed YENED! Since then, we have had to see such methods of choice directly from the Minister. We cannot have procedures anymore, we have declarations of positions, the previous government has made statements of positions and we have to turn back to doomed methods. We cannot just say 'in the name of transparency and procedures' and with the sole signature of the Minister to make choices and abolish a supervisory board. After all, you have given a draft law on NERIT which will come shortly afterwards. Withdrawal of the amendment. Is it possible to have this amendment right now? She's irrelevant, but she's coming in with a bill. There's no reason. I don't understand the background. You have brought an amendment to the rehearsal that is late and it must be withdrawn. It has nothing to do with it. Let's talk about it, but it has nothing to do with it or anything. Take her back. You have tabled an amendment to the Presidency of the Republic. Please withdraw the order. It shall present the President of the Republic. It does not seem to cover any serious need. Can this be the first act of the President of the Republic? Protect him. This amendment has nothing to do with the humanitarian crisis. I'll say a few words about the arrangement. Of course Mrs Valavani is here. Perhaps before the regulation, I should like to say a few words about the costing we have heard from Mr Mardas. Escaping prisoners who are seconded and who keep people in positions of responsibility and returning to the police is not a profit for budget. These people were paid before, paid and then paid. Profit is when you withdraw specific recruitments that were scheduled and the process had proceeded to be hired. Here's Mr. Katrugalos. Bring us what you will withdraw, what recruitments and then we will have real gain and benefit. These things are money, they're not funny. That's how we balance the costs. We cannot make fun of Parliament and the Greek people here. You are bringing an amendment to the regulation. You bring it in while we shall be discussing the regulation in committee tomorrow as a matter of urgency. Is that possible? For a day of difference? What is the urgency that his difference is one day? Can we discuss this basis? There's a regulation that you're giving millions of people. He has no limit. You're giving millions. PAOK owes twenty-five. Half are increments. Will you give him 12 and a half million? Is that the purpose of the amendment? Is that why he's coming right up? Do they also owe canalarchs, do any businesspeople big? What are the favors? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Why'come'? Why'come'? Have we seen any lists? Did we see a list of who can take advantage of this amendment? Can I owe millions and save myself? Bring us the list here to see who's gonna take advantage of it. You said the same thing at previous meetings and you were right. Who will benefit from this amendment? Because we have the piece of money ahead of us, which owes a thousand euros and saves 500 euros, and the millions are running behind and hiding. Is that what we're going to do? We mustn't start with favors. Look out! There's responsibility. You're a government! So sooner or later? I said it again, give it a list. Tell us which and from what amount and above can they take advantage of this amendment? Who can come and save how much? To owe 10 million and 15 million euros and to pay half? Let's see them. We don't expect that from a left-wing government. Is it a matter of coexistence? Explain why I don't understand it. Where are we going to learn this from? We've forgotten the junk out of the market, and we're dragging it into the parades. Don't drag us into such situations, please, by the nose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Of course, there has been the choice for the Members to speak, of those who first put it. He has asked for the floor on the amendment to which, as I understand it, Minister Katrugalos has referred. There is Mrs Bakoyannis beforehand and she is asking for the floor from what Mr Kegeroglu, the rapporteur, obviously for clarifications. Come on, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u390	Let Mrs Bakoyannis take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u391	Let Mrs Bakoyannis take the lead. Come on, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have a minute to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u392	That's right. I am therefore explaining, on the basis of Article 68(6), what you have said in the absence of me referring to me and distorting my statements and positions. So I ask that I have your permission to reply to you, Madam President, personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u393	It is true that you have the permission of this House and of the Bureau, since you are invoking such staff. I would point out that the time during which you requested the floor, that is, Mr Kotsia's speech, had not raised a sense of staff in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u394	Nor could Mr Kotsias raise, because he is a Member of Evritania if I am not mistaken. So I come to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, I denounced the President of the House yesterday to reporters on her negligence to fulfil its duties. What are the duties of a President of the Parliament? They are described in detail in the Rules of Procedure of the House, which you have before you. One of the topics to which the President of Parliament should respond is to make sure that the parliamentary diplomacy, which he spoke about during her prototype, when he came and gave us the programme statements from the President of the Parliament, is working unnecessarily. So what I denounced is that in the Council of Europe, which Greece and the Greek Parliament are taking part in and where there are political committees and where the political committee of the Council of Europe is chairing, after an election and unanimous vote of all the Members of all countries, at the meeting that was held in Paris the day before yesterday, despite the fact that it had three weeks of the papers to sign my absence and make sure that I can go freely to Paris, it did not do so. I went to Paris, returned from Paris, without my permission, and in fact I was wrong, ladies and gentlemen. Because if anything were to be done in this House and my vote was needed, which, in any case, a Member of Parliament has the opportunity to vote on it, it would not be possible to do so, because the President of this House had neglected to sign the decision, which would allow me to vote by written vote. I was asked, then, by journalists about the privilege of former Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis after seventy-five years of parliamentary activity to have a office in Parliament. I would therefore like to say to the President-in-Office that the Rules of Procedure are not being read selectively. The Rules of Procedure stipulate that former Prime Ministers have the right to have an office in the House in Parliament, that is, within this building. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you believe that your decision can dismantle the Rules of Procedure of the House, you are deeply at night. You should bring about a change in the Rules of Procedure and when the House votes on a change in the Rules of Procedure, then make any decisions you have. I understand that the strife you have suffered today was great and that your irritation has brought you to the situation you must act on the assumption that the best defense is an attack, in an attempt to rally the SYRIZA MPs. However, Madam President, you will always do that in your mind that your institutional role is specific and is not the one you have been working with all this lately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me to say that you will do well to look at your work a little better, because all these colleagues - including many of SYRIZA's colleagues - may not know that they have sixty days of their election to submit a paper called 'a state of expenditure during the election period'. In order to do so, ladies and gentlemen, the committee, which the President of the Parliament has not yet worked, should function because he deals with other matters much more seriously, such as making Hercules Poirot or I do not know what else. The result, however, is that you - and we all - are, if we go under the law on 25 March.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u395	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u396	I would therefore ask the President-in-Office of the Parliament, in addition to attacking the various Members, as she likes to do, or the previous government, as she likes to do, to deal with its real work a little bit. Your real work, Mrs. Konstantopoulou, is to do your job. Otherwise, you can always resign from the President of Parliament, become a simple SYRIZA MEP, put another Christian up there, who deals with the real issues of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u397	Do you have a preference on the religion for who will be in the Chair?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u398	No, no. You're unfortunate, Mrs. Constantopoulou. You're talking to a man who's given tests. When you arrive to have battled me, then you can talk, let me tell you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, put another man in the Bureau of Parliament, who will do his job and protect the MPs and not leave tomorrow any Member of Parliament to the mock of the journalist who will tell him "why did you not table, Mr Papoutsis, the expenses of your election period?". Do your job and leave the insults and mud to others. Your job is to preside and be able to do what we have voted on for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u399	When you asked for the floor on personal grounds, I thought you wanted to respond to a personal insult. I didn't think you wanted to address personal insults.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u400	No, Madam President. You offended me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u401	I will not reply on staff, because when I hold the Chair, I cannot answer you on staff. I would, however, like to say, because you have spoken about the functioning of the House, to inform the House of what is operational and procedural, because it is not possible with such intervention to create confusion. On the first point raised with regard to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe: the delegations of the parties to the parliamentary assemblies for this parliamentary term are being set up and have been sent to all the parliamentary groups to make known which and which Members will represent the parliamentary groups. I must tell you that the large parliamentary groups, that is, both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, are usually slow and usually back on their documents and correct them. This was the case with the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and we have allowed it, so it was with the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, and we allowed it until the first committees were set up, so the New Democracy Parliamentary Group came back and asked the committees to change their representation to two committees, even asking for a change of yours. I have informed your parliamentary group since, in order to avoid malfunctioning Parliament, that, after the setting-up of the committees, the change takes place by resigning the Member and replacing it. It has not been resolved at all, but I imagine that you are not looking at the President who applies the Rules of Procedure for malfunction when it is addressed to the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u402	For other things, I'm looking for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u403	In relation to the Council of Europe too, as you know, the Heads of Delegations are members of the first Parliamentary Group. What you are saying today is that you are claiming, using the fact that the Delegation for this period has not yet been established, to make use of your status in the previous parliamentary term, by making use of such a possibility that it exists when the Delegation is not established. That is why you have never made any request to the President of this Parliament. On the contrary, the requests made by you to the President of Parliament - and I have them, are registered at the Special Secretariat - are on February 6, 2015, under protocol number 363: 'Mr President, I inform you that I will be absent from the work of the Greek Parliament on 6, 7, and 8 February 2015, as I will be in Munich, to participate in the Munich Security Conference and the OSCE Committee for Distinguished Persons on European Security. I'm honored, Dora Bakoyannis. Notification: New Democracy Parliamentary Group’ It was the three-day programming statement. And your letter was read. I'll testify for the Minutes. In relation to this week, there is your 10-3-2015 request to the President of Parliament under protocol number 784, with notification to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, where you say: 'Honestly, Madam President, In accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, I apply for a leave to be absent from the proceedings of Parliament, which is abroad for personal reasons from 11 to 13 March and from 18 to 20 March 2015. I am honored, Dora Bakoyannis". This request, which speaks of personal reasons for absence abroad, was read by me at the meeting on 10 March 2015. In particular, Mrs Dora Bakoyannis’s request for absence abroad was read for personal reasons from 11 to 13 March 2015 and from 18 to 20 March 2015. I then proposed that this House agree to give you permission, and the House approved the permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u404	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u405	Yesterday, you picked up on this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u406	Lie unconsciously. You're confusing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u407	Yesterday - and I shall put it in the Minutes, because, in any case, the disorientation has its limits - you appear to say - not here in plenary, of course, you are telling journalists and the 'BIMA' which published it - that 'the President has not bothered to sign a simple transfer paper from me to Paris. To sign this paper, he did not find the time, but to send a letter to Constantine Mitsotakis to leave the office that he has been holding for seventy-five years in Parliament. These, to restore reality. [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, with regard to the Commission 'from a point of view' you mentioned, indeed the functioning of the House on 'from a point of view' is important, especially in view of the fact that Members appear to be forgetting to say very important amounts, such as EUR 1 000 000, as has happened in the past and you know it. This committee, as you know, has changed its way of doing so. By a law that came at the last minute, it's changed its composition. It is therefore called upon for the first time to operate under a new law. It is a committee, which requires the appointment of representatives from various authorities, including courts, the Bank of Greece and the Fleeting Authority. I would like to inform you that the representatives required have not been appointed, as I have been informed by the services and by the relevant official. The representatives required have not been appointed either by the Bank of Greece or by the Glossary Authority. This is the official briefing I have from the services. So the attempt to show that the committee is not working, because the President is not working, I think it is going to be afflicted in reality and you should be a little more careful. Mr George Katrugalos has the floor for the Deputy Minister of Administrative Reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u408	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u409	You don't have the floor. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u410	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u411	Just a minute, Mr. Katrugale, please, because this kind of mud will be eaten by Mrs. Constantopoulos or will be... (heared) Madam President, you mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u412	You don't have the floor, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u413	You will listen to me, Mrs. Constantopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u414	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u415	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to which I refer and to which Mr Theocharis referred earlier is number C.14. Signed by the Ministers, Mr. Voutsi, Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Valavani...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u416	Mrs. Konstantopoulou, are you so afraid of the answer? Mr. Catrugale, leave me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u417	Mrs. Bakoyannis, I fully respect you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u418	Why are you afraid of the answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u419	Mrs. Bakoyannis, by hand the pocket and in the middle of the congress while the Minister speaks?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u420	Alas, I was carried away by Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u421	If you want the floor so badly, we'll give you the floor later. Sit down. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u422	You will give me the floor to answer, Mrs Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u423	Sit down, I'll give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u424	Let me sit down, of course, but you'll give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u425	And try to restrain and don't give this image by hand in the pocket in the middle of the congress. The MP speaks from his position or from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u426	Did Mr. Varoufakis give me a bad example? I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u427	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u428	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have said that this amendment relates to an article to be added at the end of Chapter II on the organisation of the Government concerning the conversion of a posted official to the Presidency of the Republic to a Special Secretary. This Special Secretary shall be the direct head of administrative and financial services and shall be referred to the Secretary-General. The reason why this provision is being proposed is that it is appropriate - and, as you can see, such a provision could only come after consultation with the Presidency of the Republic - to have such a position as to better coordinate the staff of the Presidency of the Republic. I think the relevance is obvious. It is about regulating a service of the supreme body of executive power, so it is in complete harmony with the issue of Chapter 2. And I think it also emerges as a matter of urgency, since the new President of the Republic needs the best possible coordination of the services of the Presidency. I would also add that the cost of this provision is minimal because there is no provision for a new post, but for a posted official to be converted into a Special Secretary. And I would ask the House very much to accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Bakoyannis, you have spoken three times as much time as you are entitled to. You spoke six minutes while you were entitled to two. You are asking for the floor, in my view, in an inappropriate way. However, because I think it is important to express yourself, I would ask you to have the floor for another two minutes, but after which the Rules of Procedure will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u430	Good of you, Mrs. Constantopoulos, thank you. Well, ladies and gentlemen, because Mrs Constantopoulos had the preoccupation to refer to the 1 million for which she spoke about 'from now on', I should like to inform the House that, first, this case was dealt with and unanimously filed, because there was 1 million in 'from now on'. And it was a story of mud, of which the President of Parliament loves. Secondly, Mrs Konstantopoulou, the Council of Europe does not stop because elections are held in one country. The President of the Political Committee is not elected because he was president or head of the group of Members. He is elected because he is proposed by his party, the European People's Party in this case, and is voted on from there and according to whether the other parties agree, he is elected. It has nothing to do with whether I was a leader of the group of Members who went to Parliament. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] So because you referred to the services, you would do well to ask them, because if you asked them, they would explain all of this to you, they would explain to you how they work, and they would explain why it was really flawed or not signed. As for the second issue, you see, the services cannot intervene to send the Bank of Greece and the various competent bodies. The President of Parliament is doing this. The President of the House is making sure to gather people to a committee. The President of Parliament invites those responsible to send their representatives. So it's your job. I'm sorry, you didn't do it no matter how much mud you want to shoot Members, your negligence is not corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u431	You are probably not aware that the previous President of Parliament, from your party, Mr Meimarakis, has written the appropriate letters. I have this briefing from the services. You may have more specific information than some agencies, but it is the official briefing that the President of this House has. If it is the way you say it, that is, ex officio, you were presided over, you certainly did not need any decision on which you complain that a document was not signed, which has never been submitted. So you should finally decide what exactly the problem is. I have to tell you that a case is either avenged or not avenged and filed. It cannot be dealt with and filed. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor, who wanted some clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u432	Madam President, I would like to ask you about the amendment, which we have said we support and which concerns ancillary staff if the government accepts the improvements we have proposed. In particular: Auxiliary staff may recruit in the health system, hospital groups, etc., but also social care units, social welfare centres, as they are now called the social care units. I would therefore like to ask, because exactly the same problem is in the social care units, that the ministers include in the provisions for the extension and for the care units. Furthermore, I would like to ask the Minister for Health why he has removed the payment of the newspapers, which he had in the original provision, and of course if he accepts the improvement for the insurers that we have proposed with a specific amendment. The amendment on uninsured persons has been tabled by me. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u433	Will the Minister responsible or the Minister responsible take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u434	In a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u435	Therefore, Mr Kegeroglu, your question has been recorded. We shall now proceed with the list of speakers. We will certainly go up to the fifth in a row, and then we will give the floor to ministers so that some Members can speak. Mr Christos Boukokouros, Mr Athanasios Vardalis, Mrs Despina Sveroni-Hondronasios, have the floor. Here is a note made by Mr. Aygeakis in a change with Mr. Mitsotakis, who was proposed and proposed, and Mr. Vassilis Kyritakis. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u436	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I am sad to see that I have only to say unpleasant things. I am deeply concerned that my position should focus on the essential part of the case, which is called the 'project to deal with the humanitarian crisis', in the shadow of broader developments, if I should stick to the procedural procedure that we have been troubled with today, or whether I should also look at the communication part of the matter, which both for the bill and for the broader developments, as was not due, the government side and I will explain it afterwards. The essential part of the bill has been analysed in the exhaustive discussions in the relevant committees. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you may celebrate, you may be engaged in majestics, but the money is little, very little, is 200 million. The Ministers responsible have described them without specifying where they come from as a whole. With EUR 200 million, the humanitarian crisis, as you have also called it during your opposition tactics, and today as a government, is not being dealt with or even blocked. I would remind you that the previous government - several speakers have mentioned it in this Chamber - has made more than EUR 450 million available as a social dividend and even for a moment has claimed that it is facing the consequences of the economic crisis. I would point out here the tactics of the main ministers and Members of the government to insist that the humanitarian crisis is a consequence of the memoranda. It is very shallow, ladies and gentlemen, that reading. The memorials came from the country’s bankruptcy, the causes of which are very much in need of discussion, and everyone can have their opinion. If there were no bankruptcy in the country, there would be no memos. So the consequences go back to bankruptcy rather than to compulsory memos and to the necessary policies, which you too are pursuing, and let us not reveal what you are signing. As far as the procedural part, which has been afflicted enough today, as a new Member of Parliament with sadness, I have noticed that the procedures have completely displaced the substance of the bill, but also of the other issues of topicality, which have dealt with today's debate. We can all agree that with regard to the functioning of our culture and Parliament, procedures are a substance and a democracy, but always on a measure and a reasonable basis. Today I have the impression that the logic has been established by the Chamber. I hope he's back at this time. In the communication section, both of the bill and of the developments, many ministers - because, Mr Voutsi, you are a serious parliamentarian, I have been watching you for years - with great ease they build a theory of the 'internal enemy'. Hellenism never won with divisive logic. It's been defeated. He's amputated. And because the times and circumstances are critical, I would ask you - especially you and the good colleagues of SYRIZA - not to make easy use of terms such as 'dourism', 'internal enemy','recruit with the attitude of lenders and partners'. Do not use them easily because, Minister, we do not identify ourselves, we do not join the Siomple, but do not ask us to join your propaganda tactics. We put you in a very broad context and tell you: Save the country within the euro area, within the euro area, as you have been commanded, so you have committed yourself, and we will support you. We don't tell you, nor negotiate fighters, nor negotiate smartly or flexiblely. You are the government and you must decide to rule. Theories about 'internal enemy and domination', however, by the New Democracy, are not accepted. They're coming back. They're rejected. Because, Minister, there is no 'fifth pillar'. "Five bucket" exists only in some morbid brains - you know it very well - and it causes catastrophes. So do not call it, so that everyone can take the country's problems seriously. And don't misunderstand the fact that we're voting on the bill at first. We told you on the committees. We have no right to deprive our undignified fellow citizens or the crumbs you give them. Not one euro. That is why we are voting in principle. I hope the next bills to be discussed in a better and more beneficial climate. For, Minister, it is not a patriot who defines himself as a 'patriot'. This sometimes ends in a patriot. Patriot for us is the one working for the country, who is beneficial for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u437	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. I will give the floor to Mr Vardalis and then to Mr Varoufakis who wants to support an amendment, not his main speech. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u438	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, both in committee and in plenary, there have been many big words which have nothing to do with the reality and, of course, with the nature and purpose of this bill that we are discussing. But is this bill treated with extreme poverty? I'm dealing with it, I'm dealing with the problem, I'm dealing with the problem, and I'm solving the problem. You, with your policy, are creating poverty and impoverishment in trying to achieve the relaunch of the economy, namely capitalist growth. At the same time, what you do is manage extreme poverty and nothing more. What is it that you are really pursuing with this bill? You are seeking to train the people, in order to constantly reduce their demands, to consider any claim to be unrealistic about the recovery of the major losses over the last six years of the capitalist economic crisis. What is your main argument? "That's what we can do today. Later we will be able to do what we really want." And what are you doing today? You are collecting money with internal lending to pay the debts and at the same time tell the people that everything will depend on the outcome of the big deal with the lenders, that is, the new memorandum you will sign. Until then, we suspend or delay some of the announcements 'to give confidence to our European partners'. The ‘Thessaloniki programme’, however, does not in any way provide for the recovery of losses. The people should be aware that any benefits granted to some who live in extreme poverty are not small steps towards recovering losses. These must be forgotten by the people. Come on in, forget it! We have repeatedly asked: Do you intend to take even a few euros from the shipowners, from the big capital, and give them to the people in poverty? We didn't get any answers. That's a good deal of gum on it. Finally, since they will not give, since the shipowners, the industrialists, the bankers for the management of extreme poverty do not give one euro, it is obvious where you will get it from. You will get them from the least of the poor to give them to those who live in extreme poverty. Why are you doing this? Because you too feel that capitalist growth will be good for all, both for industrialists and workers, where then you will be able to give more crumbs to the people than for the increasing profits of the major business groups. Because this helps your logic, the logic of class cooperation. For you now, the issue is social cohesion, not to mention and develop the class struggle and ruin the plans for the relaunch of the capitalist economy. There has also been a lot of reason for the minimum guaranteed income. The history of minimum guaranteed income as a way out to increasing poverty and impoverishment of larger parts of the populace is not new. A number of variations apply to twenty-six of the eight Member States of the European Union. So this is not a Greek invention. He's got other generators. I would remind you that supporters were all the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but also SYRIZA, who tabled a proposal in 2005. So new is what they all suggest! In fact, all of them are doing nothing but copying the guidelines of the International Monetary Fund and the OECD on the reform of social benefits. Yes, those who do not have a wooden word but who are masturbations in copying all directions of the various imperialist organizations! In other words, the cost even of these crumbs, which the government says will give the poorest, will come from the reallocation of the funds for the social benefits that are given today. That explains, of course, all the efforts and criticisms of all the other parties in the opposition that are limited to finding the real beneficiaries, how the resources available will not go to the wrong purpose, will have the greatest effectiveness, the need to establish a permanent mechanism such as the introduction of the minimum guaranteed income. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. This logic is not only anti-grassroots, but at the same time it is dangerous. And it is dangerous because, on the one hand, people are pushing the people into poverty for the competitiveness of monopolistic groups and, on the other, they appear to be worrying about the dignity of the people's family, covering up virtually part of the growing poverty with charity that will come solely from overall reform. I'm done because time doesn't take me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u439	Time's up, but you have a little tolerance to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u440	I shall conclude, Madam President. The only realistic path for the workers and the people's layers is the path of combat organization, the regeneration of the movement, the struggle to meet their needs. The JRC will give the battle with the workers, in order to get a divorce of more and more of the working class from the logic of fatalism, "realism", subjection, to build the popular alliance towards the true enemy that is the action of the major business groups. We have confidence in the inexhaustible forces of the working class. We won't live with crumbs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. I want to make a clarification. The function of the Parliament with transparency and the licenses given to photographers do not mean that there is a paparazzi function within the House. When there is a personal moment of illness this is not of interest to the public, so that there is a patient of photography as if it were a spectacle. I would ask that this should not be repeated. Mr. Varoufakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u442	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to Amendment No 15 of the draft law under discussion. In particular, there is, Madam President, a legislative improvement, which I shall be tabling. I'll read it to you before. The second article in the amendment shall be added paragraph 3 as follows: ‘3. At the end of paragraph 4 of Article 3 of Law 3864/2010 (A'119), the following subparagraph is added: ‘Unless the Fund's available assets are placed up to 31/12/2015 at 10% in deposits referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and 90% in cash management account at the Bank of Greece in order to be placed, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (g) of Article 15 of Law 2469/1997 (A'38), which, as applicable, also applies to the Fund. The provision of that subparagraph shall apply from 17-3-2015.’; And, secondly, in the third, in the amendment the word ‘subparagraph’ is replaced by the word ‘case’ and a new paragraph is added at the end of the provision as follows: ‘This provision shall apply from 17-3-2015’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u443	Tell them in Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u444	Beyond the techniques, I'll tell Greek right now. There are two amendments which have been accepted in one. Let me tell you the history of the first. By special provision in December 2012, the Financial Stability Fund collected from Greek credit institutions the total amount of EUR 550,600,000 as a one-off payment for earlier State aid received from the Greek State. This amount corresponded to the fixed return of 10% on the preference shares held by the Greek State and held part of their share capital, and relates to the returns of 2010-2012. The Financial Stability Fund has kept this amount in a interest-bearing account with the Bank of Greece throughout this period. With the regulation that we are proposing, this money is being transferred - I say again how much it is, it is 550,600,000 euros - to the public account, while the interest credited amounting to EUR 280,000 is paid to the public. With regard to the second regulation, this is related to the possibility of the financial stability fund's assets being placed on a repurchase-resale basis with a counterparty to the Greek State. The reason is that, as is well known, the Financial Stability Fund has no possibility of investing its capital and reserves in another way than in a treasury deposit with the Bank of Greece. In order to make better use of its assets under the proposed arrangement, 90% of these assets are specifically invested in a cash management account of the Bank of Greece, in order to place them in contracts for the purchase or sale of securities by the Greek State in line with the resale and buy-back contracts, with the Greek State's counterparty, essentially with repos, reverse repos, buy and sell back options, well - buy back options, in accordance with the provisions of Law 2469/1997. For the sake of completeness, the Fund is also provided for, as is the case for the legal persons governed by public law and the insurers that invest in the same way, a claim for compensation against the Greek State in the event of damage caused by failure to fulfil the obligations of the Greek Parliament. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u445	Minister, I would like to ask you, before you leave the Step, to clarify - because I see that with this legislative improvement you are referring to the entry into force of 17 March 2015, so in some way you raise a matter of urgency, because you are talking about even a date that has passed - I would like you to explain exactly what the urgency is and why this date is set, and if there is a change in the wording'may be invested', if this wording is changed and why.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u446	The wording does not change, it is the one you said, "may be invested", which means that it is at the discretion depending on market conditions and needs, as is judged by day and hour, as must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u447	Will you explain on 17 March?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u448	In March 17 is a request from the Financial Stability Fund and it has to do with the deadlines that it, according to its legal adviser, considers that it is necessary to complete its own process as part of the decisions of the Financial Stability Fund Board.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u449	To be completed until when? I would like to ask you why the House has to appreciate it as a matter of urgency and as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u450	Look, the urgency has to do with the fact that this is a very large amount of money, which is currently being released from the Financial Stability Fund, with the aim of investing it as I have described you, which requires this particular date.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u451	Thank you. The honourable Member, Mrs Despina Sveroni-Hondonasiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u452	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u453	Are you asking for the floor as a Parliamentary spokesman for your 12 minutes prototype, Mr. Koutsouko? I'm asking to confirm that yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u454	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u455	Mrs Severoni-Hondonassiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u456	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a newly elected Member with the Golden Dawn Party. I have to tell you, I have to tell all of you, I have to look you in the eyes and tell you: You have been elected by other procedures and you have come to this temple of democracy? Other rules apply to you and others to us? Aren't we democratically elected, legitimate Greek parties? What part do we play here in this Greek Parliament? Is anybody doing us a favor? Who has given you the right, without being judges, to play judges and judges, to confuse the distinction of powers? Who told you, who gave you the right to characterize us as a formula, fascists, neonazis? Who are you, anyway? And what are you and us? You know, it really hurt me today - it wasn't to talk about it, it was to talk about the bill - I felt physical tired a lot and pain, pain mental, pain very big. Is it not possible, in this temple of democracy, elected MPs, in the same procedures as I have been elected, to speak of other things, but to shake the finger and say 'like Golden Dawn'? It reminded me of the elephant's ant with the ant. Some people start to say about the ant and because they don't know what to say, it ends up in the elephant. So, who's the enemy in here? You don't have to look too hard. You have him in front of you: It's Golden Dawn! Who gives you the right? What are you? And you know, I'm messing more specifically with my teachers, my law teachers. I have one in front of me. I didn't exactly have a teacher, but a teacher is for me since he's been a law teacher. Of the first things we learn at the university at the Law School, it's the presumption of innocence. No one can, but nobody can be a custodian and honorer of everything, and because a case-file was formed - which we know is how this case-file was formed - everyone in an abusive manner to "swirl" us what he thinks is and to think that it works democratically! In the end, is this democracy? Is this your democracy? Is that how you perceive democracy? You'll forgive me, but I feel differently. And I, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, am elected, just like you. I'm an anti-communist. But that does not mean that, because you are communists and we have quite different opinions, you are enemies. Neither mine enemies nor the nation's enemies! So who gives you the right to move us every three and a little finger? I am referring, however, to other groups in Parliament that have hurt me very much. They don't know us, they don't know us, yet, all they do is blame us. You'll have to wait first. We have all experienced another kind of democracy in recent post-government years. At least when I was living outside, I believed her. In this democracy, two parties in power were altered: socialists and neoliberals. These two. Mr. Venizelos said today that the deep crisis is the one that brought the memorials. The deep economic crisis? It wasn't just a financial crisis, it was a worthy crisis, and it seemed our nakedness now that we were forced into whom? The great corruption. We all admit there's too much corruption. Everything's rotten to the roots. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, for a while your tolerance. Thank you very much. Everything's rotten to their roots. Even in football. And that's where it's rotten. There's nothing standing up! But what does that show? Political responsibility? What some politicians have said to them here, 'what we are to blame, do we have political responsibility'? No, gentlemen, when a country gets into bankruptcy, it means something went wrong. You know that you ruled what went wrong. There is no political responsibility here alone. There is another, objective responsibility. And that responsibility has a name! But you're hiding, you're the ones who ruled, and that's why you've found the easy victim now. What? Co-operating socialists along with neoliberals, the socialists of "lifts exist". And after "the money is" is "the Titanic that is sinking" and "the lazy Greeks, the unworthy Greeks". After that is the "we must save you" and then, in the lid, we "we have eaten them together". Yes, gentlemen, you have eaten them together! Some of you ate them together. These people who ruled us have decided. You know, I'd think there was political responsibility too. But do you know when? If they really did in their own households were to manage and bankrupt their households, I would say that they were wasted so much. But they can't have entered politics with alpha in the square in their personal property and homeland, in this country, made it not just poor but poor! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repeatedly rings at the end of the bell.]] And it's not just that she's poor, but they stole her hope, they stole her dream. And they now decided when George Papandreou was elected with his slogan "the money is" after we have gone bankrupt, to save us! And that's why he voted for the memos. Of course, some of his ministers had not read them, but it doesn't matter. He decided for us without us! And the other great "mark" of the neoliberal now doctrine comes. They come with Zappeion 1, Zappeion 2, those who saw things differently, and decided together to collide.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u457	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u458	And because the people wanted "ratton and spectacle" and because there was no bread, they said "I will give you a spectacle, the best spectacle". What was the best sight? It was Golden Dawn! All the channels ran into her, all the world was involved in the format of neonazis, criminals! See? And my hands are dripping blood! We shut them in jail, and we're quiet! We haven't been quiet yet. We do what we do here in our talks, in our speeches, in the amendments of the laws, 'fly' and a little from Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn has passed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u459	Madam Colleague, please finish. You've already reached eight and a half minutes while we said for six minutes. You've got half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u460	I shall conclude, Madam President. Thank you. Right now, I might make some rage. Yeah, some rage. I'm getting hurt. What the lawyers should have said in this House at least would be: "Wait to become the court first and then describe them." You see, Mrs. Dora Bakoyannis was very affected, because she says she fell mud on her and her case finally entered the file. For anyone or whatever happens in here, we say 'First is justice'. In fact, you say: 'Independent justice!', as I have heard. You're wrong. You don't have to stress independent justice. Justice is, anyway, independent. When you say independent justice decides like that, what does it mean? That there's an addicted justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u461	What is this, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u462	Excuse me, colleague. Don't be angry. I've been waiting since yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u463	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u464	Immediately, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have voted at least for the first part of the bill, which speaks of extreme poverty, regardless of whether the extreme poverty has been identified. And I'm ashamed of being forced in 2015- who would expect it? - in the temple of democracy, in this country we must say that we must give our Greek fellow citizens some scum so that they can live. He was mentioned by a colleague - I do not remember, perhaps by the Couple - that he was reminded of times after the war. Then it was justified. It was war and they had - you know - only the hunger of the stomach. Now we don't just have this hunger, we have the other one, as I told you, the value of hunger and we need to take great care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u465	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u466	You're talking about one section, and all I'd like to say, ending with the JRC colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u467	Mrs. Comrade, no! You're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u468	That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u469	You've spoken twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u470	It's for the JRC colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u471	If there's a dentistry, it's gonna be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u472	It's from Takis Lazarides' book saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u473	There is no JRC colleague in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u474	The JRC's colleagues are absent anyway. There is none of the JRC Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u475	They'll find out. "They are still being forged and unscrupulous, even today. They continue the in vain, as much as inappropriate effort, not only to maintain the dividing line, but to extend it among the dead.” It's from Takis Lazarides, Belogannis' partner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u476	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and four educational attendants from the Palaiochori High School of Halkidiki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Mitafidis has the floor, because Mr Aygeakis is not here. Mrs. Kerameos will speak in his place, after Mr. Mitafidis. Here, Mr. Mitafidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u477	I should like, on the occasion of and the presence of students and students - and let me - as a veteran of public education, and on the occasion of what has been said and, on the occasion of what has already been said, to say to the dear students and to make a proposal, Madam President, to move across from this building that has been a report for the dark seven years. Like also, when you come to Athens, go from the EBA - ESA to see what was happening in this country, when the parliamentary institutions did not work, there were no democratic rights that some today consumed like toothpastes on the channels. Because that kind of democracy we have! Because children shouldn't grow up with a selective memory. They must grow with the real image of this country and its history and not with this glimpse of so-called 'progressive compositions', the disappearance of contradictions, with images of this brutal virtual reality, which insults both our intelligence and our memory, as attempted, in my view, and in this Chamber today. And I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, of the former two-party or three-party, if you like - because, unfortunately, this lasting crime against the place has been co-existent, and the forces that came from the left, which have not even been bothered to make the elementary self-criticism - that the humanitarian crisis bill is neither a swim of Siloam nor a convenient parade, to conceal some of their responsibilities for the drama that this place is living in and, in my opinion, today shedding crocodile tears. And because you've been accusing us of creative ambiguity, I want to tell you to take a position on the creative catastrophe that you've been applying in recent years. Isn't that what the neoliberal muscles call it, for example Subeter or Friedrich Hayek? You say capitalism regenerates, like Phoenix from his ashes, from the ashes of society. And today, when you are about to take a fundamental step atonement, you say: 'Look at something, we will vote on it at first'. In fact, you are plundering, and you are blaming us because we do not have the necessary resources. You are, of course, blaming us because we have not introduced the minimum guaranteed income. Let me remind you that since the years of the Coalition how many times this issue has come! The JRC was, of course, blaming us at that time for the constitutionalisation of poverty. Establish the minimum guaranteed income for decent living. We'll do that. How are we gonna do that? When you stop working in this Chamber too, as agents and vendors of the country's lenders and get us a'red card', even for those semimeters that we brought here and which are not the ones that represent us. I want to tell you this: These measures that we brought you here have behind them an entire history of struggles, of struggles that also gave out here, which were dropping tons of chemicals, which you had children beat their parents! Do you see these images today outside Parliament? There aren't any. Something happened in this place. Of course, you consider it an accident in this place. That's what you say. "How are the former mixtures now ruling the country?" They say some fanatical anti-communists. That's right. We've got the big overthrow right now, and you need to understand it. This place cannot continue to be a pretext for the various "jackets" of the country, which are oppressing us in the House as well, with these counterproductive "personnel" procedures! What does it mean by "personnel"? The issues that exist in this Chamber are political and social issues. And this bill, if you like, is the condensation - in its most appalling form - of the country's social problem, which is not a sacrament, as you know. He didn't fall out of the sky. There are physicists and moral perpetrators, and you will do well, when you go up to this Step, at least not to shake our finger. Do you know why? I'll tell you. The measures you have heard here have already been fought by the outburst of the disaster of the memorials. Let's say, in the Municipality of Thessaloniki, one and a half months after the disaster of the memorials broke out, we brought a package of twelve measures to relieve the citizens and we received only our vote. We brought them three more times. You have voted against it again. Do you know what I was listening to on the Municipal Council? "You left-wings bring. A lifetime you are dangerous." I was saying, 'I wish we were lying!' Unfortunately, we didn't come out of liars. Sadly. Of course, I do not expect people absent from the social struggles to make self-criticism nor to say an elementary "excuse" to this world where he was taken over. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I want to close, Madam President, because I do not have the necessary time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u478	You will have the honour of the Bureau, as will previous speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u479	I want to say one word to the comrades and rivals of the Communist Party of Greece, because I know that we are from the same bank, even if they do not want it and go to separate gatherings. For reflection, I will read you something from our common heritage. Unfortunately, he's not in the Chamber. I want you to hear it. You're still accusing us of following Evita Peron's policy. You may allow me, Madam President, to collect it as a personal insult. Are you talking about the president's selective relations with the Golden Dawn? Mr Theocharis said about YENED. Aren't you embarrassed? Do you know who you're addressing? Can she have a selective affinity with the Golden Dawn, the descendants of the junta and the tamaspheres, the daughter of Nikos Konstantopoulos? Aren't you a little embarrassed by the people you're talking about? Take his testimonial statement at the time of the junta. Go across the street and see it in prison. I'm telling everyone you said it here. Well, I want to finish with something. We will remind you of these things - you should know that we are about seven in this Chamber from that time on and we know faces and things - not for re-engineering reasons, but so that this new generation of fascist demagogues does not fall. The ones who were shooting at the funeral of Dertile and cheering for this criminal who was performing children like the ones that were in here. And they're coming here to talk to us about parliamentism! That we mistreated them already. "You can only defeat a more powerful opponent by stepping up your powers and making the most diligent, care, attention and skill of any - even the minimal - "short" between the opponents, any opposition of interests between the bourgeois order of the various countries, between the different groups or categories of the bourgeoisie class of each country, as well as every - even the minimum - ability to gain an ally numerically strong, even temporary, resilient, unstable, uncertain and conditional. Anyone who did not understand that did not understand a grain of Marxism and scientific, modern socialism in general." Those who, at least, swear to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. Mrs. Nikki Kerameos has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u481	Madam President, may I precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u482	Asks the Minister to precede, if you agree. He normally deserves it, but he has the courtesy to ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u483	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u484	Mrs Kerameo therefore has the floor, then Mrs Valavani and Mr Koutsoukos. Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u485	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three fundamental comments on the first chapter of the bill on subsidies for food, rent and electricity in socially sensitive groups. I would like to stress here that I will speak from the practice of social provision, as I have experienced very strongly in recent years through a charitable association, with which I have been volunteering, and which, over the last three years, has given more than three hundred thousand people belonging to these vulnerable groups. My observations on the first chapter are, therefore, three: Firstly, the measures we are discussing represent, in my opinion, 'a drop in the ocean'. My colleagues have already shown the extremely low figures, the sums to be spent in practice on each household. I won't say anything more. Although this is a 'dark in the ocean', of course all aid is important, however small it may be, and I shall therefore at least vote in favour of these articles. Secondly, it seems to me that this is an unsatisfactory regulation and I am explaining it. Social policy measures require a detailed study of the current situation, an assessment of needs, an assessment of the possibilities for social provision and a coordinated approach. I do not know to what extent the government has been able to carry out such a detailed study, which, in my opinion, is extremely necessary, so that, on the one hand, the loss of effort does not go hand in hand and, on the other hand, go hand in hand with what is most needed. The regulation of the previous government on the minimum guaranteed income was, in my opinion, such a targeted effort, but because of it much has been said, I will tell you about another one that I think you do not know, or at least most of you do not know, but it is extremely declaring of the treatment that, in my opinion, is due to such social problems. This regulation, which was passed by the House, was as follows: One of the most basic counter-incentives in the private social offer was to impose VAT on all donations in kind from companies to charitable social benefit organizations. In other words - I will tell you very simply - it wanted a company to donate ten tons of macaroni to an institution and not only would it be deprived of its stock, but it also owed, on the basis of the existing legislation, 23% VAT on the value of this donation. This, as you can see, created a powerful counter-incentive for companies to give such donations in kind to socially vulnerable groups, because if these companies were to destroy these products instead of donating them, they would have been exempted from VAT. To give you an idea of what sizes we are talking about, there was a Greek company that produced personal hygiene goods, which systematically destroyed thirty-seven trucks a month with personal hygiene goods, products that had some surface defects, for example some mispack, but were perfectly suitable for consumption, and all these products were lost, even though there was a terrible need for these products, because, if they were donated, they would pay VAT 23%. The previous government, therefore, collected all this information from NGOs and other bodies, studied the existing regime, the specific needs of vulnerable groups, and consciously proceeded to legislation which exempts such donations in kind from VAT on certain conditions. This is a change in a regime that existed in Greece for twenty-seven years, which was an extremely important brake on the private initiative. Why did I mention this example? Because even in a limited regulation such as the one I mentioned, there was an investigation, a study was carried out, an analysis of needs, a survey of corresponding arrangements was carried out in most countries of the European Union, and a concerted effort was made. Unfortunately, I do not have the impression that something has been done, such a study, in the case of the first chapter of the bill. And, on the contrary, I have the impression that this is a fire-fighting, rough solution. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Thirdly and last of all. These articles in the bill represent a regulation which, in my opinion, is in the wrong direction, or at least one, if you like, inadequate direction. And I'm explaining. It is of course very important to offer support, relief to socially vulnerable groups. But they don't solve the problem. They offer a daily relief. But most importantly, it is to help these groups to reintegrate into society, to reintegrate themselves into the social and labour fabric. Then the problem is solved. I will only give you one example. There was until first a guest house in Athens for socially vulnerable groups. It was a private initiative. What did that guesthouse do? Go and find the homeless, take them off the street, give them food and shelter, but put them two preconditions. Firstly, a time limit to support a year and, secondly, it forced them during their stay either to learn an art or to learn a language. How? From volunteer teachers the club itself found and was organizing. Why? In order for these homeless people to be able to stand on their feet and get out into society. I listened carefully yesterday to the Minister who said that they would follow measures that will help people to reintegrate and I personally consider them to be very important and I hope, in fact, that they will come to Parliament quickly in the context of an integrated and coordinated action. I close with this: There's an old saying that when you give someone a fish, you give him food for one day. But when you teach him to fish, you give him food for life. And the second is that we all have to, SYRIZA, New Democracy, Potami, all the parties - I will not mention everything - do, that is to say, teach the other to fish, not just to feed him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u486	Thank you, Mrs. Kerameus. Mrs Nadia Valavani, Deputy Minister of Finance, has the floor. How many minutes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u487	For eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u488	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, a question has been raised. From what you understood, I will talk about the Ministry of Finance's amendment to the draft law entitled 'Total or partial one-off payment of late payments to non-regulated tax administration'. So a question was raised by a Member of Parliament about a couple of hours ago that, since tomorrow, we will be dealing with the hundred-dollar bill, because it is now coming as an amendment to this bill, let us also say'regulatory'. I will stress what it says in the heading 'non-regulatory' and say what is a big difference in time anyway. Anything that we are going to discuss in the next few days will be an arrangement that will open around Easter shortly before - shortly after that, and will close at the end of May. What we are talking about in this bill, which is being completed tonight, is an amendment out of regulation which concerns a small, short window of opportunity of all over the week in March. It opens up in March on the 20th of the month that we hope there will be an FEK in this bill and closes on 27 March so that any revenue - because it will have to be paid after it has been completed within three working days - will be revenue for March. So it's obvious why it's out of order. It has no prerequisites and does not mean, apart from the money that will be paid, any other obligation - unlike in April or May - that it should be subject to what is not paid out by the debts of natural persons or businesses involved in the scheme. What is the point of this short window of opportunity? The point is that there can be receipts of old and very old debts. The old debts are debts with a small, generally small capital and a very large increase. They are debts which are not calculated by the Ministry of Finance's service mechanism, nor even by those that can be recovered. I can tell you that this indicator, which is perfectly measurable - is not some kind of assessment - and it is called 'wrong-term debt' that starts by counting the debts of the four years. In other words, the experience of collecting the tax declaration says that debts in excess of four years have been close to zero collection. On the other hand, there are some categories of debt, which may not be old but which also have the same feature, that is, much higher interest, surcharges, fines on a much smaller capital. There are several such categories, such as - for example - outstanding debts, where they relate to the fines of the Code of Books and Elements. I will tell you that whatever we say about the need to develop a tax conscience, there is one reality. The debts of the Code of Books and Elements, the fines which become due, have a time-lag rate of 0.05%, i.e., say "zero" to be inside. It is also a very adaptable to the personal financial needs and capabilities of both natural persons and companies'regulation' in the sense that on the basis of the only number each debt has - which anyone who owes to the public can enter the TAXIS and see it - one can choose which debts one can make a total repayment or which debts one can make a partial repayment. It can repay all its debts or it can pay only one or it can pay one third or one third of its total amount to a debt with such characteristics. This enables a great deal of flexibility and adaptation to individual needs, with the aim of being able to electronically, without going to the information, without having to go into personal contact with their staff, simply by printing a simple electronic page that will open after the 20th of the month and record the individual unique identity of each debt in which they want to put a sum within the next three days and deposit this amount. What's the target? It is a double objective, as the same double objective exists in regulation. On the one hand, there is relief, because even if some people owe many years these old debts, they do not avoid their consequences. And their consequences are a constant hunt, as everyone knows, both natural persons and companies are in life. On the other hand, it is the revenues in a very difficult period of the Greek state, the revenues they need to find and these 200 million, which is this very minimum response that we first give to the needs of the humanitarian crisis, while, as you know, entered by the partners and lenders and also by political forces within the country the well-known question. Where are you going to get that money? Where will they be cut from? Well, I think he's a good, really, way to fund these actions. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Allow me two more minutes, Mr President, and I shall close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u490	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u491	There is one view that says that they cannot go through such regulations, because they have budgetary costs. They have budgetary costs, because a debt of EUR 3 000 can be paid for EUR 500, 600, 700 and put off respectively EUR 2 000, 2.200, 2,300. Thus, the state loses 2,300 euros. I think that these are not very reasonable, because it is clear that from what you have not collected many years now - and in the last five years were the years of the Memorandum of Liberation, which if there were any possibilities to collect them more ahead, they really have been nullified to a great extent - from that which you do not have or are not going to collect, in fact you are not losing anything. On the contrary, you collect something that is inappropriate. It is inappropriate, as it has been proved, not because we say so, but over time. I wanted to tell my fellow Member from Potami who asked the question of what great entrepreneurs we have found and bring this regulation, and he even named some of them, and he asked us if we would know if they would take part, and whether they would all pay or part of their debts, that things have been a little confused. Whose friends are the big businessmen? It will be very difficult to say that the big businessmen are particularly friends of the SYRIZA party or I would also say that the JRC. Among us, Greece is a small country, we all know each other and know who has friends of great business and who do not. I can assure you that I, together with some of the ladies and gentlemen, have no friends with great entrepreneurs, we have made this minimal arrangement, I do not have any politicians or personal friends of great entrepreneurs, and much more they have not dictated it to me. I do not know whether large businessmen will come from those who have owed their hair heads for years to make use of this arrangement. I hope they're coming too. I would say that the more people get so much better, although the service actors in the ministry tell me that they generally avoid getting into any kind of regulation, even some regulations as flexible as this one is. I will also tell you what it is, as they confided me when we finished not this, but the other big bill for regulation, the dream of the service actors of the Ministry of Finance. It is that one day in the morning she will knock on the Ministry's door, present and pay her debts the "Acropolis Exchange". Of course, as you can see, I was told about corn, because they and I are well aware that there is no chance of that happening. That is why, for all these reasons, and because I cannot accept that the International Monetary Fund is the most important anti-monopoly force in the modern world - since such concerns are mainly deterrent from this direction - I do not think we need to stand much - very much in the rest. Here we are, we'll see who's coming. I hope that some of the three and a half million people trapped in debts of up to EUR 3 000 will be able to find two hundred, three hundred, five hundred, to come and be erased from interest, the most of the others. On the other hand, companies from those who have had to have stood differently against their debts will also do so for no other reason, not to exercise some kind of patriotic debt but simply because companies, as we all know - and this is the basic criterion with which they will operate - will judge what is of interest to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u492	Have you been appreciating, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u493	I don't appreciate it. I hope that, although it will only be seven days - and I do not think it needs to be more than seven days - it will be important to contribute to the two objectives that I have set out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u494	Thank you, Mrs. Valabani. Mr Koutsoukos, PASOK Parliamentary Representative, has the floor, as has been announced. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we have had the great pleasure and honour of seeing in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, for a short time, of course, because we understand, as every time, the obligations of the Minister of Finance when he is in his office and working on the major issues that concern the country. It would also be a great pleasure to see him here again in this Chamber - soon I hope - and explain what he has signed. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it has been officially announced that Mr Varoufakis has signed the extension of the main loan contract. To explain to the House, to the Greek people, and in particular to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the relationship that has been signed with the programme, namely the memorandum, and in particular the clauses contained in this convention. A majority orator has called these clauses "pilotism". So let Mr Varoufakis explain to us whether he has signed the 'pilarity'. Of course, it would be a great pleasure to analyse and analyse the reforms, the first reforms, the second reforms and to reflect the expected results on a paper sheet for each reform and the timetable. I am referring to those that can be practicable and captured, not, of course, to cable cocooners against small and medium-sized tax-growers. I hope that his presence here, when it happens, will unravel the so-called creative ambiguity and have a clear picture of what we have voted on, so that Mr Varoufakis does not use a double language, when he speaks to the Eurogroup and when he gives interviews and speaks to the media, in his friendly habit. So we're waiting. For the time being, we are obliged to point out to Mr Varoufakis and the dear Deputy, as soon as I arrived from the Step, Mr. Valavani, that they have created a huge crayon in relation to the existing arrangements, which are introduced fast track for seven to ten days and the fixed days, which they have posted in "DICAHY" for consultation but - oh of the miracle! - we will discuss urgent procedure. I too, of course, will await the opinion of the President of the Parliament on what he has denounced on the urgency procedure and will be placed on the table. Who's the laughter, ladies? Today we are talking about the previous arrangement, the regulation of the hundreds, which PASOK has been fighting since the summer of 2014, and that we have stopped convincing both our coexistence and our partners that we must pass it - and we have finally passed it without their full agreement - and this arrangement expires on 31st month. At the moment when we are talking about it, the government is ashamed to say so because it voted against this regulation because it denounces it because it speaks of 'Security' - it has laid down a law on 'Security', on the three-member committees - which, as I said in plenary, the ranger, the priest and the teacher in each village - which would delete the debts. That is why he condemned it, denounced it and created enormous expectations, because he expected the people to do something different. She said in her first interview, along with Mr Skourletis, that they will also cut some of the capital but, as you have seen, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, there is neither this ten-day arrangement nor the fixed arrangement, which has been put down and which has been tabled in urgent procedure. So this crazier has led to a huge loss of revenue that forces the government to absorb everything available from the funds and legal persons to meet the public's financial needs and, of course, to deprive them of liquidity and the real economy. That's the result. Mr Varoufakis has not explained this to us in this way, because he proposes the regulation on the placement of the funds available for the insurance funds. He gave another explanation. I would therefore like to say to Mrs Valavani, who has spoken about the opportunity window, that, when we legislate, we must legislate in a consistent, understandable way from the ordinary citizens, who I imagine are not at that level, which I had mentioned during the debate on his bill over a million debts. Because we also had the question at the time why he had a wall in one million, we insisted that there should not be one, that the government responded to us - there are here the minutes of the House - that there are few people who are over a million and are not interested in the simple people, for whom we are all supposed to fight, that is, the poor. So, ladies and gentlemen, what is this regulation about the shorter time, while tomorrow is the fixed arrangement, which could be subject to obligations, why is this regulation unnecessarily binding? There's only one difference. The difference in the divisional payment. And what is the point now of a poor man, who Mrs Valavani said, to pay three centimeters, to save three more, to owe five more, if he cannot get into the fixed dose arrangement with the 20 euros that we will be voting on - if we vote on it - on Friday. Isn't that the regulation for the poor? So, then, we find no sense in this debate, and much more, Mr President, if Mrs Constantopoulos were in your position, she would ask Mrs Valavani, as Mr Varoufakis asked, about the relevance of the regulation with the bill. On the urgency he asked Mr Varoufakis about the relevance - why he asked him - he did not answer. He would ask about the relevance and Ms Valvanie. Obviously, there is no relevance. I'm coming now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u496	It has a huge relevance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u497	One million with the bill? The other arrangement has, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u498	Just walk in a paragraph, just that they're going there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u499	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Kegeroglu. Keep going, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u500	May the Minister responsible, to whom I am addressing, explain it. Welcome will be her explanation. After all, as I said in my first place, we intend to vote on this, as we shall be voting on it. Mr Voutsis, since you are concerned and once you have interrupted me, the letters from the President of the PASOK to the President of the Socialist Party and the text accompanying them have been posted online. It will be interesting to study it and comment together here in the Chamber, since you are used to shaping the government's defensive line, conquering everyone. I now come to the other amendments. Mrs Constantopoulos is not present. What does the NERIT amendment have to do with the bill being discussed? I have not heard the honourable Minister speak. Maybe he'll take the floor, since he's here. He has the right. Does the amendment relate to the bill? It may be urgent. Because the government wants to change the administration to NERIT. When does he want to do that? At the time the ERT bill was given to the consultation, for which we will be placed when the time comes, as I think the whole House will, to see whether we will have a public radio or a party phone. For the time being, the Supervisory Board is abolishing, which has had the minimum guarantees. Why, what was the provision on the Supervisory Board, ladies and gentlemen? That the Supervisory Board declares the position of the President on criteria and qualifications which it defines and that there is a committee set up by the AACC and others, which it chooses. Mr. Poppa, would you like to appoint without a call and without qualifications a party friend or executive? Do, with your pleasure, with your pleasure, but this will be your great contradiction in relation to what you have said over time about the role of public television. I now come to Mr Skourlet's amendment. Mr. Skourlet, according to the government line, sees enemies everywhere. He falsified my words yesterday on a point of order when I raised the issue of the vote on the amendment because I said - if he read the Minutes - that we agree on the substance. I also said that we would expect the arrangements for the collective negotiations announced by Mr Skourletis, to be placed on all other issues. The amendment is therefore a delay. The President will accept her, I imagine. We have no reason to accept it and not to vote on it. We would, however, expect the Minister, on the basis of the discussions that our government had opened with the International Labour Office, with the participation of the social partners or competitors, as one on the Left would prefer, to extend the rest of the contracts to ensure that they do not stay in the air. To conclude, Mr President, there are issues with the amendments which are not relevant, they have no urgency and serve various purposes, some of which we shall vote on - and the rapporteur will have said so again - and others that have clear party purposes, which we will not vote on. The bill has said that we will vote on it with a specific strategy, which has to do with extending the conditions for the coverage of the poorest and weak, as will tomorrow be voted on. We hope, during Mr Tsipras' negotiations with five or six members on Thursday and the Council on Friday, that the line of understanding, which has to dominate the maintenance of the achievements that the people have paid with labor and sacrifices over the past few years, will prevail. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u501	Thank you. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, Mr Fotou, has the floor to make a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u502	Thank you, Mr President. This is the Ministerial Amendment No 17, which concerns the National System of Electronic Contracts. In point 1, where it reads: ‘The validity of the provisions of this Part B shall start with 31 December 2015’, it shall have the words ‘unless otherwise specified in the provisions of this Part’. This phrase is deleted because it concerned a part II, which is no longer included and therefore creates a problem if it is left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u503	The Minister of State, Mr. Nikos Pappas, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u504	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer very quickly to Rule 28 and Amendment No 18 of the bill we are debating today. The provision of Article 28 rationalises the administrative structure and functioning of the General Secretariat for Information and Promotion by abolishing the latter and transferring its structures, services and personnel to and renamed to the General Secretariat for Information and Communication. The existence of two general secretariats within the same service and with a common organisational chart created several administrative problems in the proper functioning of a sensitive service, on the one hand, which is part of the Prime Minister himself, and on the other hand has the task of public information, implementation of press legislation and communication management, as well as the image of the country abroad. Needless to say, resources are being saved through the abolition of positions. And that is only the beginning, of course, because it will also be followed by a change in the organisational structure in such a way as to meet the real needs, the implementation and implementation of its purpose. In addition, Mr President, I would like to say that Amendment No 18 is timely and was tabled before the three-day deadline provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 87 before the start of the debate in plenary. Secondly, in accordance with paragraph 3 of Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the provision is relevant to the subjectmatter of the draft legislation to be passed and, in particular, to matters of immediate action to rationalise the structures of the wider public sector. As regards the need for rationalisation and direct and effective supervision, the proposed amendment complements the constitutional requirement of Article 15(2) of the Constitution, namely the supervision of the operation of the public service broadcaster. It is recalled that this draft law has also been submitted and discussed in the relevant Committee on Public Administration. As far as the substance is concerned: it is well known in this House, ladies and gentlemen, that this government has taken the legislative initiative to reopen, not just to restore the injustice to the detriment of the dismissal of our fellow citizens, but to do so in terms of smoothness, without re-elections, without 'black' and with the credibility of the public service broadcaster. That is our intention, and that is what we are going to ensure by tabling this amendment. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, is not just coming to restore this injustice, it is coming to restore and meet a social need. The need for the existence and operation of a public service broadcaster, with displacement and a contribution to informing the people. I have heard both from Potami and from PASOK reviews of party control and severe criticisms of the abolition of supervisory. Ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, government control mechanisms and mechanisms to prevent intervention must exist. But you must also recognise that the issue is, above all, a political one. And what I mean. In the priority situation, NERITT operated on a supervisory board. So let me remind you of some things. I won't say names. I do not want to dynamise the debate, because sincerely, this government wants to go to the debate on the ERT bill with wide consensus and to bring to this debate all Parliament's wings with conscientiousness - let us say - of self-criticism about the mistakes of the past and to form the broad consensus which will give the new public broadcasting body the authority it deserves. So let me remind you: The Supervisory Board on 3-10-2013 appoints a Board, President and Managing Director. On 5 May, the Board of Supervisors shall cease the Board of Directors. A new Board of Directors is hereby appointed on 6 May. On 13 May 2014, two members of the Board of Directors resign for reasons of equilibrium. There is a Supervisory Board. On 12-9-2014, Mr. Macrykitritis and his deputy resigns. The 1/10 members of the Supervisory Board speak publicly and speak of government interventions in their work. A new Management Board shall be appointed on 3/11. There are other interventions from members of the Management and Supervisory Board. Not to mention the details. The cherry on the cake was on 29/12 last year - the day the House dissolves - the competent Minister appoints a new Supervisory Board. What do I mean? NERIT, gentlemen, was the birth of a fierce political conflict and an obscure party monopolies. Any insurance patents that the law that gave birth to it would have ceased to be such a motif. Let us, therefore, take aside the acute criticisms of YENED and - I repeat with absolute personal and collective honesty on the part of the government - let us come to this dialogue with the disposition of compositions and consensus, precisely because our own poorness, our aim is to set up, restore and give the country the public television that it deserves. So the issue is primarily a political one, and here in the next few days we will all be judged. Allow me to present to the Minutes all the decisions that I have mentioned. [[At this point, the Minister of State, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I conclude by saying that these are the issues that require the immediate start of preparing a transition to effective supervision and to NERIT in terms of transparency and protection of the public interest, which for us is not a pretext or a wish. For these reasons, we are asking for this amendment to be put into debate and voted on. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will conclude by saying this: I think that today we have experienced another episode of the deep search in which the Responsibility and the Olive Vulture have entered. And this deep search is about her role in the new era. We hear, many times, in the same position - and this gives rise to a terrible impression - that we are caught in our election rhetoric, we are committed to our promises and we are taking the country to the rocks. And the same placement comes to say: "You have signed a secret memorandum and shameful conventions and you hide it from the people and the National Representation." One of the two must be said, at least in the same position, so that we can reach agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u505	Not necessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u506	So that we can reach agreement, Mr. Brutsi. I understand - and I close - that this is a long process, which mainly concerns your party and its historic reinstatement in the new period. What we want to tell you is that the agreement of 20 February, gentlemen of the New Democracy and the other parties, will be voted on in part. The first part comes today. And I would say to you that it is hopeful that consents are formed in this Chamber, although some parties and parties are shifted from their prestige and come to vote for things that the memoranda could not contain. We are optimistic that this is a process that will help you to search and find your new historic role.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u507	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Artemios Matthaopoulos, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr President. I did not intend to take the floor, but the development of the debate and the whole procedure obliges me to put some very basic issues on the right footing. The only thing for sure is that with regard to the insulting remarks and insults that have been launched at the expense of the Golden Dawn, I neither want nor am I going to be placed. After all, it is my firm start to leave all those who choose political confrontation with such practices and such conditions exposed to the mocking of the Greek people. Because instead of realising the problems of modern reality, they are liked or chosen for their own reasons to live in the past, sometimes in the inter-war period, sometimes in the period of cold war, sometimes during the dark seven-year period. But thank God has come the light of democracy and especially of New Democracy, to dismantle this darkness, to impose its own dictatorial regime with democratic cloaks, a regime, which avenges in prison innocent people by abolishing the presumption of innocence with a sole presumption of guilt on ideology alone. And it is no accident, Mr President, that most of the debate today took place on procedural issues, not from the Golden Dawn, not from the governance but from those who systematically ignored procedural issues during the previous parliamentary term and thus passed as they wanted their own laws with bad practices. And today the protagonists of this disgusting construction, the New Democracy, are protesting that they have fainted. They're compressed, he says. Someone here forbid them to be placed and spoken. Another said that he was not given the right to send a letter of appeal, because he was abroad. And what if he wanted to vote? How interested we are, gentlemen, in the New Democracy. You must remain silent once and for all because what happens if Members of the third political force in the country do not have the opportunity not to send a letter to vote but to be present here, as required by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution? So, elsewhere, the crocodile tears, the procedural issues elsewhere. Remember the disgrace you've done with the corresponding fissures that you imposed on the Golden Dawn, through the total blockade to the media, through the lionage, by the phones that have been set up. But you'll tell me it doesn't matter. The New Democracy, never put pressure on the media, is a party that respects pluralism. Okay, but what about the issues of parliamentary suffocation, for example with the photographic provisions that illegally abolished the state financing of the Golden Dawn? With other photographic provisions or bills that were passed by a defective majority? I remember a characteristic example - if I am not mistaken it bears the date 11-12-2013 - for a legislative initiative concerning toll growth. Did the coup d'état promise us that there will not be an increase in tolls, that the House will finally vote, in the absence of Members who have expressed their desire to speak and vote and what has happened? He passed the bill with a hundred forty-eight votes. And what was the result of this vote? Increase in tolls of 60%. But of course, you have also melted your own colleagues, not just the Golden Dawn, who are your political opponents. What did you tell us about the famous Baltaku video? Because we are talking today about the name and content of the debate with the party spokesperson. You told us that he expressed nothing but his personal view. Of course, the false witnesses who testified to the courts these omnipotences that we were firing rockets from Omonia buildings, that we were slaughtering lambs by ringing with a blade in the carotid carotids, but the Prime Minister's right hand - in a long-lasting conversation when he admitted what was proved by the things themselves - simply expressed a personal opinion and nothing more. Of course, it does not give us any impression - and I deliberately perpetuate most of my speech in what New Democracy has done, because it is insulting to talk about the fact that this party is suffocating - the former Prime Minister of the country, where, after he has blackmailed his own MPs, no one commented on this gargling news, on the fact that his mobile is being watched. Of course, we have reason to make reference to this major issue, which has many implications, because we, as someone has actually confessed for a long time now, are watching our moves and our phones and our financial transactions, as the ILO has done, which, by the way, has, incidentally, come to the conclusion that Golden Dawn has no money coming from illegal activities. The former Prime Minister told us he heard voices. Of course, this is causing strange combinations. When someone says he hears voices, we might think of something else. But I'm not talking about the mental balance of the former Prime Minister. I am referring to the fact that he was listening to voices from foreign power centers, which gave him orders to send innocent people to prison, and after commanding his own partners, to take phone calls in wrongful circuits, so that we listened to the Prime Minister's voice saying: 'Tell Panthenaikes' - code name for the Prosecutor Doyako - 'to be treated accordingly' - not to repeat the vulgar expression - those who went to testify during the preliminary investigation in January last year. Samaras at once listened to voices, but finally we heard his voice interfering with the work of justice. So many months later there was nothing, the self-evident thing that would happen in a democratic country, to call upon the former Prime Minister, the former Minister of Justice, all the prominent officials who have confessed to their involvement in this disgraceful regime, to prove their innocence. What did I say from this one? I recognize the presumption of innocence. But since I launch so many heavy slanders, they say, let's sue me, open the telephone secret, and if there's any conflict, see who was finally calling, who was calling, and what needed to be illegal and unconstitutional. So all this is a complete slump in democracy, and for this reason alone, I also denounce today's process as illegal. Because you have all spoken about minor procedural issues, but not about the most importantly, that we have a majority inconvenient, and therefore the vote is either by name or by any means, it cannot be constitutionally validated for the reason that the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament do not apply faithfully, and this - I repeat, for once again, in order to consolidate it - beyond the ratification of the Greek people, who now wish to express themselves through Members who are illegally in prison, whenever they make such a request to come to Parliament to exercise their parliamentary duties freely. On the other hand, in my few seconds on the bill, to remove misunderstandings, I will say that we have said from the outset that we will support all measures which, as far as possible, are alleviating some vulnerable social groups. It has, of course, been rightly said by previous competitors that it does not specify what criteria are for someone to be classified as living under extreme poverty. But, anyway, because it is the first bill and we consider that to some extent it solves some of the problems that previous coup d'état has created - with a misguided, exterminatory Memorandum policy - we believe it is our duty to help, so that a few of our compatriots are relieved, but - and this is the key element of my position - that such initiatives should be taken outside a Memorandum. We must not live through the previous unscrupulous events, where e-mails were sent from abroad, or phone interventions were made, and they said to a betrayal government that the new measures you want to pass, are not approved by the programme and by the troika, and therefore you need to find an alternative where an alternative was a tax-fixing policy with truly disastrous consequences for the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr. Matthew. The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, will be followed by Mr. Ioannis Zerdelis from SYRIZA and then by Mr. Panagiotis Kartsoulis, who will speak in the place of Mr. Lykoudis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u510	Thank you, Mr President. In the amendment we tabled to extend the term of office of subsidiary staff serving in hospitals, and of doctors and other categories, we add an addition, which I must say - is on the advice of Mr Kegeroglu and we accept it. In Amendment No 24, then, and at the end of the third paragraph, the following subparagraph is added: 'Similarly the term of office of subsidiary staff serving in the Social Welfare Centres'. We believe that this part of the workers should also be included, because these structures are also having a subsidization problem, and in this way we are ensuring a smooth operation by the end of the year. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u511	By the way, because there has been a label for on-line and overtime staff in hospitals that have been unpaid for days, the joint ministerial decision, which has been made in the FEK and is still pending these days at the National Office - that is to say, one or two days to be published in an FEK and is directly enforceable - regarding the repayment of debts in 2012, 2013, 2014, and the doctors and other staff. The December on-calls are being paid, and most importantly, it changes the way in which payments are promoted. We are going from the comitology regime to transfer payments, and the process of payment of on-calls and overtime will be very accelerated. It is very important that we ensure at this time, which is difficult for the health system and workers, a normality of payments. It is our basic obligation as a state towards the human resources of the ERC, which, with too much zeal and over-conceivable soul in this period, provides services to support the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u512	Thank you, Minister. Legislative improvement is in a positive direction. Mr. Ioannis Zerdelis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u513	I'm going to need less, Mr. President. Mrs Sveroni is here, who obviously thought I was a member of the JRC Parliamentary Group. I am not a member of the JRC Parliamentary Group, but I would like to point out this. She is a new Member and did not know what has been said by this Step of the House by MPs belonging to her party. Comments have been made on immigrants, economics and refugees, the term 'human'. And he has spoken about the protocols of Zion’s wise men as an authentic text, which is known to everyone to be a construction of the Charan police at the beginning of the 20th century, which was a propaganda for the purposes he served at that time. If Mrs. Sveroni has an old issue of the ideological-political magazine called "HAY" she will have seen that on the cover of one, there is a photograph of Hitler and another picture of Gering. So in her discomfort why was she called a neonazi party? they have given the answer themselves. That, Mr President, is what it is all about. On the bill, I would like to make a few comments. First, two and a half thousand years that the Progora, with four words, laid the foundations of man-centerism. He said: “All things means a man.” At the same time, it did the following. It gave the invitation and challenge at the same time to all state systems to have this issue on the ground, namely that they will satisfy through their functions the needs of man and man. In this respect, then, the stake has taken place for far too many years. There have been steps back but in the last five years we have seen jumps backwards. Man and his needs have been neglected, man and human lives have become consumable to serving things. And certain things are money and profit. So where did it end in these years of this memorial policy? And I will not get tired of saying that this policy is a memorial. We'll say a few things. Unemployment. Unprecedented unemployment, Mr President, for a country in a non-war period. Children's poverty. We recorded magazines reminiscent of Dickens's readings describing the pre-capitalist England. Dissolve public health and education structures. We have the demolition of the social state and there are people who are dying of shortages of elementary goods. And as if that was not the case, ladies and gentlemen, recorded is that and it is true, in 2014, last year, more deaths were recorded than births. This is called 'white genocide'. I will stand by a correct Chinese proverb, which Mrs Kerameo mentioned in her speech, that it is "better to teach someone to fish than to give him a fish". I couldn't agree more. How many Greek scientists who know how to fish are currently in foreign waters and are fishing for foreign peoples and foreign governments? It has been measured that there are a hundred and fifty thousand Greek scientists who have left abroad - from studying the University of Macedonia - of which the hundred thousand are under the age of 40, most, not only are graduates but also qualified for them with a lot of trouble, with much pain and a lot of sacrifices. They have doctors and masters. So the bill offers a relief. It does not solve problems at the moment, which have been created, but we must all admit that it offers something. As for those objections that have been said about how the definition of extreme poverty will be termed, we have to understand that only by talking about how extreme poverty is defined, we are basically admitting that there is. And it reminds me of Thomas Eliot's saying: "We lost wisdom for the sake of knowledge, we lost knowledge for the sake of information." In other words, we're looking for information that we're going to characterize someone extremely poor while we have him in front of our eyes. For this reason not only must this bill be passed by all the wings of the House, but Parliament itself must take care of its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u514	Thank you, Mr. Gerdelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u515	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u516	I'll give you the floor for a minute, Mrs. Chondronaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u517	Mr. Gerdelis, you're right, I'm very sorry. I don't know how you got it, but I didn't mean to hurt you, to offend you. One is that. Secondly, I judge what I have met in the party. Now, if anyone has said from any parliamentary group, which might have expressed himself, I do not think that each of the rest of the parliamentary group should definitely be given an advocacy, because there is freedom of speech. At the end of the day, our minds - and this is what we learn and address the lawyers - are never persecuted, even if it is immoral, even if the mind is criminal. It doesn't mean that whatever someone thinks I should be a fan, no matter whether we're in the same space. I don't know what you're talking about, but I'm telling you about what I know about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u518	About the Bridge murder and tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u519	That is why I would just like to say that, while we think that we were fighting for the highest ideals of freedom, it is said by Takis Lazarides - "and socialism, in fact, we were fighting and sacrificing for the imposition of the barn dictatorship of Zachariadis - Ioannides for the conversion of our country into a Soviet protectorate." Do you know why I'm saying this? Because someone expresses their own view of some, how futile a fight they did. This should be said in this Chamber and not just anything that suits some people. Everything must be said. History must be learned from all sides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u520	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u521	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor. Is that a minute enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u522	Yeah, even though it's not worth answering to some. The JRC is proud of its history and its course. It's proud of Zachariadis and Stalin. Why? Because they crushed the monster of fascism - Nazism, and that was a great achievement for humanity. And from this point of view, we clearly state that the working class and the people with its wrestling must break the snake's egg, isolate the neo-nazi and criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn, because its actions, its crimes were self-proof.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u523	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Panagiotis Kartsoulis has the floor and Mr Spyridon Dannelis will be followed. Here, Mr. Cartassouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u524	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to exhaust in five minutes the criticism that Potami makes in the articles that do not refer to extreme poverty, namely Chapters 2 and 3 of the bill, presenting some basic features of the bill and then commenting on the articles. Among the main features of the bill, the first is the lack of concrete policy measures. In other words, they do not mention specific things either in terms of strategic plans or in terms of policy criteria or measures, but they should be present in such a draft law. On the other hand, there is a reference to the main issues of policy in joint ministerial decisions, which, when and as they are adopted, will address essential issues relating to the substance of policy and, above all, to implementation, but that means at the same time, that the implementation of the measures announced are referred to the ultimate future. However, there was not even a plan for what these decisions would include. In any case, what was very clear, on the contrary, was issues relating to the abolition of the independence of authorities and bodies or their subject matter to the central executive, instead of their strengthening, which would be the necessary condition for us to have a success in the objectives of these institutions and of these independent authorities, which were designed precisely for the objective that the draft law now comes to tell us, that it must be achieved. And I mean, in this case, the fight against corruption. A third thing, which also characterises the bill, is the violation of the principles of administrative science. Of course, we can say that this is not the case. But particularly in terms of the coordination and effectiveness of organisations and bodies, there are impressive differences between the principles of science and practice. I shall try to speak as quickly as possible. But even more importantly, the bill includes bad past practices, which have to do with the establishment of client or party "friends" in the form of consultants, a practice that the present government is supposed to leave. In particular Article 6. Under Article 6, the National Coordinator against Corruption - references have been made to this issue - in order to address the problem of corruption at government level. The corresponding reports on the fight against corruption - I am referring to the latest report of the European Commission 2014 on corruption - state, however, that it is a good step to create the National Coordinator and point out - please very much, here, your attention - that customer relations are needed, which are all but impaired by integrating the fight against corruption into a structure of governmental formation. That's right. Instead of assessing the existence of the National Coordinator - for many problems of which it has to deal with its operation and organisation, it is the previous government, not the current government - and the current government, to look at how it can improve and take measures to strengthen it, abolishes it and effectively integrates its functions into the Government, creating the General Secretariat... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Time's too fast. I'll be very brief. The inclusion in the General Secretariat is not accompanied by a description of the responsibilities of the General Secretariat so that we know exactly what we should vote on it. It is characteristic that the Scientific Office of the Parliament notes, in a word, that 'it does not clearly indicate either the competent body or the procedure for drawing up the national anti-corruption strategy'. So, if the Scientific Service says so, how can we respond positively to this article? Another comment on Article 8. The bill recommends the transfer of two of eleven overall control bodies, which the anti-corruption administration has, and that makes us impression. Why only two? What about the other nine? Why has the government not included them in this draft law? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If there's any planning, then why isn't it announced? However, this is where we are left with the question, and we have to point it out. In Article 9, there is this paradox. It's what I said before, that I don't know if it needs administrative science or practice. Four coordination offices are established, each of which coordinates only one structure. For example, a coordinating office, which coordinates the IORP. Another coordination office, coordinated by the Health Inspectors' College. Another coordination office that coordinates the economic police. That's unprecedented. So each body will be coordinated by another structure? Perhaps this is because Article 12 shows the division of the line of command in the structures dealing with the fight against corruption. That is, while it seems to be operationally entrusted by the Minister of State, it is administratively mentioned to another Minister and, if necessary, this structure is coming to solve this problem, which is surely not going to solve it, it is certain that it cannot achieve good coordination so and it is certain that it will have to do another structure to coordinate four offices, which it announces. I should like to refer to Rule 13 as well. In Article 13, there is the CSR to which we have already referred, which says that with this ministerial decision, an effort will be made to strengthen the legislative framework and any other issue, with regard to better coordination of actions to combat corruption effectively. Is it or isn't that a marginal constitutional arrangement? Is that possible? The Ministers shall only adopt regulatory decisions. They have regulatory powers and they do not have legislative powers. We point out this, because this possible unconstitutionality will be a real problem, when a fine is imposed for example, and the one who will then be able to pay for it will not be able to pay it or will not be able to pay it, appealing for formal reasons for this unconstitutional authorisation. Because I see that I have escaped, I will omit the footnotes I have on the issues of counsellors and Deputy Secretary-Generals, which in any case has not convinced us that it was necessary to create substitutes for general secretaries. Because every time a new structure is created, the new structure remains, regardless of the needs it is supposed to cover, and in any case, what has to be underlined here is that this government with the Deputy Ministers and the State Secretarys is, in the end, a great government, and if we add to it the Deputy Secretary-General, because it is part of the government, then we really have to deal with a very large government. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that when the bill was introduced into the committee, we have dealt with it with good intention. We thought that the failures involved and the obvious errors in points which - some of them - were subsequently corrected were the result of ignorance or dismissal, but not deliberate omissions and failures. That is why we have been constructively involved in all the discussions in the committees and in the House. We have made concrete proposals for improvement and pointed out the failures. However, mistakes and failures remain in the final text of the bill. I have not referred to the amendments because of the time pressure on them. My colleagues have mentioned this. We are sure, however, that in the end as far as these two chapters of the bill are concerned, it is the further politicisation of the administration rather than the improvement of its effectiveness, and in that sense, we are opposed and we are voting against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u525	Thank you, Mr. Cartassouli. Mr Danellis Spiridon, from Potami, followed by Mrs Fotini Vakis, MP of SYRIZA. You have the floor, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the three plus two articles relating to the humanitarian crisis, Parliament calls for a 'white check', ladies and gentlemen, because they all refer to final regulation in some joint ministerial decisions and even to undetermined time. In other words, the criteria, priorities, implementation structures, evaluation, are left to the discretion of the ministers. The expression of social sensitivity, under no circumstances can it become a tool for customer policies. Ladies and gentlemen, I obviously do not think there is anyone who does not see any initiative that is being developed to relieve the weakest layers of our society, but is that enough? Just proclaiming intent? Only as such can I take on board the effort made by the government with this draft law. Is it possible that the government has not drawn up a plan which is less fragmentary, less imperfect for the people in extreme poverty, such as what is being promoted today, especially since all these issues have been the flagship of opposition in recent years? We in the Potami, believe that measures to tackle extreme poverty should be targeted, should be subject to evaluation mechanisms so that they do not result in 'black holes' which, in fact, do not serve the country's already assured budgetary figures. We want past experience to be used as a basis for combating extreme poverty, for example the pilot project of the minimum guaranteed income that has been put into operation by the previous government in thirteen - municipalities, for now, because it is also measurable in real time and has to some extent the tools for measuring extreme poverty. We also believe that the governance of the site should be kept up. I still refer to the term 'extreme poverty' and not 'humanist crisis' used by the government as a title for the bill, because in politics between drama and precise reason that leaves no room for misinterpretation and customary reactions, I obviously prefer the latter. If the cost of measures does not exceed EUR 200 million, we cannot be serious about a humanitarian crisis. But if we do have a humanitarian crisis to do, then we are mocking society with just two hundred million. As Mr Mardas has just told us, it is still not clear where we are going to draw these amounts. With regard to the NERIT amendment, the arguments used in the explanatory statement on the abolition of the Supervisory Board are unacceptable and in a clumsy way try to conceal deceptive purposes which have to do with the perpetuation of state hug, which turn public television into a state, and no relationship has to do with the Left as I know it and as I understand it. If one takes into account that it was the Supervisory Board which, according to the forecasts of the n. 4173/2013, it even ensured a degree of impartiality and objectivity for the public service broadcaster, I fear that the government, despite its announcements, is taking a trip back to time that only negative results can bring about, a journey into the past of the "carrilla", clienteleism, anxiety and continuing party dependence, which does not fit in this valuable tool of quality information and entertainment that can and should be the ERT. Mr Pappas is right when he says that the previous government has not shown the best intentions in respect of the independence of the Supervisory Board. But this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u527	It's closed. He shot 'black'. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u528	"Black" she fired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u529	For NERITT. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supervisory Board... The ERT...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u530	Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u531	That's another conversation. She's the one who's going to get out of here. If the General Accounting Office of the State allows the ERT bill to come here, we will then discuss ERT's work. The supervisory board never had the ERT. The Supervisory Council is referring to NERIT and that is what the abolition is being called for today. He was right, therefore, that the previous government did not respect the Supervisory Council and its role. This does not mean that the SYRIZA Government today should show the same perception. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is a pity and I regret that your maiden legislative initiative is characterised by all the pathogens that characterised the production of a legislative work of the past, which you SYRIZA rightly and strongly denounced as opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u532	Mr. Pappa, do you want the floor for a minute? Here you go, Minister, we can hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u533	I also said in my previous position, Mr Dannelly, that the issue is primarily a political one. Wait and see - I imagine you will have seen the law that has been taken up in the consultation - that there is an attempt to provide for discussion consents and a wider agreement on how to set up. At the moment, with this amendment, Mr Theochra, the problem we are going to solve is the problem of a smooth transition. And I invite you to look at the options we are going to make, to convince you that our intentions are not what you unfortunately described in your speech as Potami. So I urge you to see it, to make a positive contribution to the dialogue and to ensure that, as far as you are concerned, the transition is a party of opposition. Why are you laughing, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u534	I'm not laughing. I say 'after you have defined the administration'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u535	I say you wait to see our options and if you can characterize them as parties. Because other things are going to be resolved by the regulation that we are presenting today. Our main concern is that there should be a smooth transition. There is no black one, there are no legal gaps, there are no double clearings and things that will produce huge delays. I invite you to come to good faith in the dialogue on the bill and to be sure that we will really be able to take the history of Greek radio and television a lot of steps below and in the end we will all be proud of the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u536	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Fotini Vakis has the floor and Mrs Eleni Stamatakis will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u537	Ladies and gentlemen, the term 'humanitarian crisis' refers to natural disasters or wars, whether it is the result of overthrowing the natural order of things - a child of natural necessity - or whether it is a side-effect of wars. And the war is inhibition of law and retreat to an emergency. The term was difficult to capture and baptise a situation of poverty, impoverishment, but also a situation of depreciation and degrading democracy and popular sovereignty in a European country of the 21st century. It wanted to avenge the founding values of the Europe of Enlightenment and the French Revolution. If, for the 18th century, poverty was viewed as individual responsibility and deviating behaviour, for the 21st century, it becomes synonymous with an undeniable necessity, natural phenomenon and repentance on top of and outside political will. Poverty, the poor become "fuel" and the necessary human sacrifice imposed by neoliberalism programmes. For the first time since World War II there are surpluses of people. There are cases that will be allowed to rise in the slums, pavement and garbage. One and a half million unemployed, the cut stream, the padlocks and the piles, became the practical lifting of all kinds of progress, since the new generation is the first post-war generation, whose living conditions are clearly worse than those of the previous generation. It is the generation that the former rulers are enclaved in the dilemma of immigration or has stayed in the children's room, awaiting a miracle of EUR 300 a month. The bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis is the first bill of the new government. The criticism she accepts, according to which she is a kind of charity, is crumbling and merciful, reminds me - let me - the pancake of Maria Antoinette to a hungry people asking for bread. What you're mocking as crunchy, do you realize how important it is for what's left over the ruin left by the neoliberal scroller? The legislation to address the humanitarian crisis is not charity and charity, ladies and gentlemen. After all, the draft law is also complemented by the anti-corruption articles through changes in the administrative structure that will upgrade and strengthen the auditing mechanisms that have been denounced in previous years, so that there can finally be revenues that create the conditions for building a social state and ensure equal access for all citizens to social goods that the former government has deported to marketable goods. We don't do charity. It's social policy. Social policy, however, requires institutions and the rule of law. And the rule of law is not challenging tax havens, it is not fouling or hiding in drawers and backbone lists. Furthermore, what you are abdicating and deceiving as a philanthropist bill, as an aspirin and charity yesterday, made a Mr. Costello unregulatedly declare that his vote would be equivalent to unilateral energy. In the face of times, in the face of the strategic investment in fear and terror, in budgetary suffocation, in the bluntness of debt and in the alibi of deregulation of labour relations and of reduction of rights, the mechanism of surveillance and punishment, in the face of the struggle and anguish for a left-wing parentheses which has not taken place, in the face of a peculiar 'global alliance' in Europe that reacts radically to vibrations and to the question of 'there is no alternative' and the fundamentalism of the markets and acts as if elections have never been held in the country, despised by popular sovereignty and democracy - what is democracy in front of the markets? - We're voting for the first bill. For some, of course, all of this is populism in the Chamber, such as populism and anti-Europeanism, and according to a text that has recently been released, that has recently been unleashed and insulted the best funder in the country, which is Germany. Worst populism, worst anti-Europeanism, however, are the policies that despise the people's mandate, which carry out democracy and demolish social states and rights. Worst anti-Europeanism is the neoliberal policies that give birth to poverty, crisis, unnecessary, thousands of immigrants without rights, with the only remaining their biological status, intolerance and fascism. It is the policy that gives rise to the existence of the terrified and indebted man who must feel guilty of his fate. This bill obviously does not exhaust the socialist perspective, and it is not burdening the heavenly ones. It's a weapon, however, that will help us fight the upcoming battles. It is a scaffolding, on which a different society, dignity and solidarity can be built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u538	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member of Parliament, Mr Metarakis, and Mr Aphrodite Staboulis, are requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u539	The House approved the requested permits. Mrs Eleni Stamatakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u540	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the government's duty to bring the bill to discuss the humanitarian crisis first. I think it is Parliament's duty to vote for this bill unanimously. Our country in recent years has known unprecedented phenomena of poverty and impoverishment. Unemployment has hit red, especially in young people and women. Many households are without any worker and are free of resources. A large proportion of the population is now unable to meet their basic needs. The measures taken by this bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis are part of a comprehensive political planning to correct the people and integrate the unemployed and precarious workers into the labour market and society. The immediate objective is to support those who live in extreme poverty so that they can meet their living needs. The long-term objective is to improve living standards, social cohesion and economic development. In the city of Piraeus where I live and have the honour of being one of its representatives in today's Parliament, the crisis occurs through the high unemployment rates and the poorness of the local society. Cobia sectors of labour force absorption, shipping and trade have been affected by the crisis. Unemployment is polluting, wages and industrial relations are being tested hard, many small and medium-sized shops are closing down. The historic centre of the city, where the trade sector prospered and developed today, fills with spaces on the ground floor. Under the roofs and socks of the stores sleep homeless, while people plunge over the bins snooping the trash. Structures that were not in the past are inaugurated in the city, as citizens who are unable to meet their basic needs are multiplying. In the central square of Piraeus, clothes and food are collected for abominable families. Outside the churches people who eat in the pool form tails, while in the waiting areas of the harbor the seats are turned into beds. At the same time in schools students faint from hunger and people daily form huge tails at PPC's store in Caminia to resolve their problems with PPC. Residents are organizing themselves and responding dynamically to the new conditions by setting up markets without intermediaries against food accuracy, solidarity pharmacies and medical and food distribution facilities. Collective kitchens are set up in many squares of the city. These are only a few aspects of the new conditions created by the crisis in the city and its inhabitants. This is a new reality which has certainly not fallen from the gap. All this was created by the policies pursued by the upcoming governments that, with deep austerity and tough measures, led to the impoverishment of the Greek people. Those who are now speaking and criticising the government's bill, describing the measures of crumbs, are the ones who voted for the memorandum and led the Greek people to eat crumbs and starve. In the proposed draft law, which is the first emblem in the fight against the populace of the humanitarian crisis and in the context of an overall effort to combat it that does not end, but starts from this bill, I think the following is achieved: Cooperation shall be ensured between actions to assist vulnerable groups implemented by all actors in a coordinated effort on social reconstruction. It is very important that this cooperation ceases competition between structures and some technical and not just problems that have arisen. Existing programmes and all financial instruments are taken into account and exploited as part of an overall integrated and sincere strategy to tackle the crisis in the opposites of the previous government that created the crisis, destroyed the country's social fabric, led millions of people to poverty and then took steps to tackle it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please give me some time. In particular, for the measures included in Chapter 1, the free reconnection and supply of electricity, the rental allowance to secure housing and the feeding to households are three main pillars, built on them by personal and collective dignity, social state, the rule of law, the state of solidarity. No man without a roof, no man without food, no man in darkness, but no man alone to find a solution, but all together. We say again that these measures are a start. The humanitarian crisis is the result of the austerity measures that healed the Greek people and SYRIZA was elected to bring the country out of the crisis and to pursue a policy focusing on the interests of many. To make the forest again, it takes effort, patience and time. SYRIZA makes a new start. By walking, of course, on difficult paths, we have our support for the Greek people and we will succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, when the microphones and lights in this Chamber are closed, when tomorrow's arrangements will be the law of the state, the citizens and especially those who are experiencing the crisis, they will know who and who have voted for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u541	Thank you, Mrs Stamatakis. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, Mr. Theanos Fotou, has requested the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u542	Article 25a(3) makes a legal correction. I read: "In order to serve the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministries in the performance of their duties, a post of administrative staff is recommended for each such post - an additional post is added - by a post of a public or legal person of public law or private law in the public sector and a post of expert adviser or a special partner under a fixed-term private-law contract". In other words, all the following paragraph is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u543	And we thank the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, Mr. Theano Fotou. Mr Vassilis Kyritakis has the floor and Mr Synthetakis has the floor to prepare.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u544	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary, the first draft law by the Government of Social Rescue, which could concern nothing but the implementation of the basic commitment and debt to the Greek people, the response to the humanitarian crisis. It is a draft law, but - and this has also been seen from today's process - which does not come under normal, normal conditions, because, at the whole time, circles from the European Union and within the country are trying to drown the government of social salvation, they are trying to drown the Greek people themselves. They did not hesitate yesterday and today to demand the withdrawal of this bill, as well as of the bill on the relaunching of the economy and on the settlement of outstanding debts. They have, of course, received their answer from the government. But we have seen here today that there has been no talk from the Vice-Presidents, even one protest against this unacceptable, anti-democratic action. On the contrary, we were very critical - almost insulted - because, allegedly, this bill does not include the Thessaloniki programme, because it includes minimum measures, elementary ones. Others call them "Smiths" And I have a question, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population: since the measures were so fundamental, Mr Brutsi and Mr Panagiotopoulos, who were also in the Ministry of Labour, why didn't you take them? Since elementary, was it just measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u545	We gave 1.9!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u546	And what we didn't get!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u547	Why didn't you give the right to reconnect electricity when people were dying, patients, why didn't they have to pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u548	Six hundred thousand get now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u549	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u550	It is causing me, Madam President, and it is a moment ago!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u551	Why did you not give the right to have the housing allowance for people who did not have and threatened with eviction? You didn't want to? You didn't think about it? Maybe that's it, too. I'll say it's not them, though. You have never thought of thinking about the elementary, the right to legislate in this House in favour of the Greek people, going against the guilds and the wishes of the lenders, maintaining the national independence of this country, the popular sovereignty and the elementary democratic legitimacy. For that is precisely the political problem that is at stake with this bill, the possibility of Parliament legislating in favour of the Greek people and not in favour of lenders. This, you never thought of. As for the other measures, both for the medical coverage of the population and for the equilibrium of the heating oil and for the support of the low-pension workers and the other measures envisaged, do not worry. These will come in turn, too. Don't worry at all. But we've lived something else here today. Those who had obtained doctoral diplomas in legislative acts, in urgent cases, in the dozens of last minute amendments, which you did not even know what they include, you have now come to be honoring democratic processes, to become guardians of legality and to give up for us because of what they have said, "it has nothing to do with it". Listen, Mr Koutsoukos learned the word'relevance'. Three years now that I am a Member of Parliament, I have not heard him invoke the subject matter and the content of the amendments to the bill which was adopted each time. However, today it is enough to 'doubt' it says 'if there is any relevance, if the amendment is urgent'. I shall be asking with all due respect, Madam President, and the Bureau of Parliament and the Government and the Ministers, because the Greek society has many urgent problems in all areas, particularly health, to bring more amendments to regulate these urgent problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] One minute and I will close, with regard to a few comments on the articles in the bill. I would say that this is a great opportunity with the first three articles, in addition to alleviating the citizens who are in extreme poverty, to record the exact picture that exists today, as regards people who have no home, who are in precarious housing, who have no power, because the previous government, not only has relieved them, but has not even recorded them! We did not know as parliamentarians how many uninsured people are. The EEA President has arrived to announce that it is 3.5 million to accept to the government that there were uninsured. We were talking about a 'humanitarian crisis' and they did not accept it that there was a humanitarian crisis. Fortunately, they accept it today. Also, on the basis of Article 1, which deals with electricity and PPC regulation, we should urgently see the need not to cut the current to any patient whose treatment depends on electricity in any way. As we also need to see the settlement of the debts due to PPC in a wider spirit, so that our fellow citizens or micro-enterprises cannot afford today. With regard to Article 5, which deals with the joint ministerial decision that is to come out, it should have the greatest possible accuracy and specialisation, along with the minimum bureaucracy, because the minimum bureaucracy in these groups to which the regulation is addressed is forbidden and can substantially increase their social exclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u552	Sir Sunday, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u553	I shall conclude, Madam President. I will conclude with the subject of the amendments. The amendment on the prevention centres that have been accepted, as well as all the amendments that have been tabled by the ministers, are also necessary. They're really gonna solve urgent problems. I repeat the request and call for more such amendments to be tabled to settle urgent problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u554	Thank you, too. Mr Synthrakis Emmanuel has the floor and Mrs Panayota Kozobol - Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u555	Thank you, Madam President. The JRC, with documented positions, tried all these days to highlight the causes of poverty, social inequality, the hunger of millions of children around the world, as well as the essence of the capitalist crisis. The cause is found in the present exploitive system of capitalists, which goes with scandals, corruption, legal and illegalfting, provocative tax exemptions to shipowners, unstoppable profits of big owners and great manufacturers. It is the same system that has fascist and nazi parties, such as the Golden Dawn, that is, the descendants of the "Sumberites" and the "hood". Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are using in this bill the vague, vague and abstract term 'humanist crisis', which refers not to the causes which capitalism itself bears, but to something undetermined, earthquakes, strife, famines, some natural phenomena. Who is responsible for poverty and unemployment? It's bad for our roots, God's punishment, what? This term consciously obscures the very nature of the capitalist crisis and its effects, which stem from its very nature. It is not because of the form of management that you say, that is, the memorials and austerity. If we accept your view of a humanitarian crisis, which is not by chance the view of all the Parliament's wings outside the JRC, since you are all appalling the capitalist development path, regardless of any individual differences, then how does millions of people's millions of people starve, nine hundred million people starve around the planet and three million children die every year from malnutrition? This bill is a painkiller and Imitasian. It is used as a valve to extinguish the discontent of the impoverished, to temporarily restore in their conscience the lost dignity of the system, which you too serve. In fact, you are trying to inspire the consciousness of this world that there is human capitalism to make him feel and obligated to reason "you don't bite the hand that feeds you". Your policy falls under the capital strategy. That is why you also have the consent of the Greek Industrial Association, the domestic urban class, the Brussels and the United States manikins. You have their preference at this stage, because you can better control the limits of resistance of the people in order to prevent harmful consequences for the system. Mrs Fotou, you spoke about the framework of a national social inclusion strategy, which the previous government was talking about. Regardless of who best manages this framework or its funding, it is important that this framework is moving in the same anti-grassroots Europe 2020 strategy, with a view to the competitiveness of the capitalist economy, the recovery of the losses of large capital due to a crisis, which itself causes, to go through an expanded reproduction phase. Unbelievable hypocrisy! By 2020, the European Union will spend EUR 3.5 billion on making malnutrition a 'historic', as the European Commissioner for Development said, while in three years EUR 1.6 trillion was spent on rescuing banks. By the way, because much has been said about the parallel actions to tackle extreme poverty by the municipalities, I would mention that the social structures for tackling poverty in the Municipality of Heraklion, operating since January 2013, within the operational programmes, are on the air, after the decision to extend the funding of the programme has been revoked. These are, therefore, the notorious "projects" and you are even convinced that those who participate in these projects cannot be included in the arrangements of this draft law. Nor are these benefits substitutes in return for humiliating misery that recycle poverty and misery, you will not be able to manage. Your statements, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, electionally 'wool-wool' and finally came out 'worn'. The EUR 1,2 billion that you were costing the rent, power and allowances, the crumbs, that is, became air cut. Just 200 million euros! You're working on it pretty well. You know, however, that you are exposed to the people with the hope that you have had in the election. Mr Varoufakis, after a mere life he again, reminding me of the same in other words, that people are not asking for money, asking for dignity. Really? Is it eaten? Is that what the unemployed ask? Is that what seven hundred thousand children are undernourished in our country? That is why you are urging dignity and the need for the poor to do his patriotic duty. Yes, but these are not served with pie and at the same time begging them to pay HIS and the raisins. A patriotic duty and an honest compromise cannot be reached. Capitalists are a real pack of wolves, which rabies rabies claim the largest part of the pie but with the same cruelty attack their prey. Consequently, either with the people or with monopolies. Either you serve each other. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Tax the big capital at 45%, the big hotel owners who just made 13 billion euros last year, giving only 6% of the hotel staff. Eliminate the shipowners' tax exemptions. Remove here and now HISPIA and all the rags. Bring the JRC's proposal for a law to the House to abolish the memorial and enforcement laws and leave the anti-KRC chatter and chips to justify your cooperation with a party of nationalist patriotism. You should tell us your position on NATO. You're gonna have to tell us about the American base in Souda. Is he going to leave? Is he staying? Bring for discussion and ratification by roll-call vote the new agreement. What are you afraid of? That is why what the JRC proposes is the struggle that will write on its front "strength with the European Union, their capital and their power in Greece, with the people really in power". There's no other proud way. All the other solutions are for the sight, to confuse the people and perpetuate the capitalist system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u556	Thank you. Mrs Panagiota Kozobol - Amanatidis will speak and Mr Antonis Gregos will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u557	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be a vision for a left-wing government to distribute food coupons, distribution of electricity, housing subsidies. A left-wing government wants man integrated into the country's social and economic fabric, wants him to work with full rights, wants him to have his basic needs secured and free to choose his own way of life. But a left - hand government cannot be ostracized and blinded. The problems are here in Greece of 2015 where, as all figures show, hundreds of thousands of families live in extreme poverty. Hundreds of thousands of families and citizens have no guarantee of their food, hundreds of thousands of families have no guaranteed roof and electricity, thousands of children read candles in the 21st century of abundant energy, where people die from improvised heaters or from the closure of their medical machinery necessary for maintaining their vital functions. It is, therefore, the draft law, a first emblem to the people created by the policies of the memoranda implemented by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. It is a first step, not a big one, but a bold one for the time being realistic and fully costly. The three chapters of the bill seem to be unconnected with each other, but all the provisions are aimed indirectly or directly at tackling the humanitarian crisis. With the provisions of the First Capital, electricity is reconnected and will benefit from it about fifty thousand households, while with the rental allowance - which is tax-free and irresponsible - a roof will be provided for about thirty thousand households. And it is right to measure the direct payment of the subsidy to the lessor, who will ensure that the rent is received under the terms of course and the conditions that all public payments are made. The above measures mark the government's inestimable position to implement its programme commitments, despite the enormous difficulties. Here, I cannot comment on the position of the JRC which does not vote on the bill, because there are little of what is provided and why the owners' privileges and taxes of the rich are not already deducted. We heard them just now. However, I did not understand why this bill and Potami refuse to vote. Despite Mrs Liberaki's peculiar efforts, it is not understandable whether the bill is voted against, because it is not possible to find the beneficiaries, or why the measures are fragmentary, or why they are not enough. The third chapter of the bill is directly related to the response of the humanitarian crisis, as it ensures the care of the unemployed and the underemployed as well as the uninformed freelance professionals. Following the inclusion of these provisions and of lawyers, it is a measure of great relief for those groups that cannot pay their premium. Last I left Chapter 2, which is indirectly linked but clearly with the humanitarian crisis, since the fight against corruption restores citizens' confidence to the State, affects the effective functioning of the institutions, has a financial benefit, cultivates a healthy business environment, creates jobs. The main thing is that it creates the environment in which the citizen operates as a citizen in the ancient classic sense, that is, the man who obeys the laws of his city and his society. Ultimately, justice and equality shall be attributed. The legislation in its specific provisions is simple and mainly contains the will of the legislator to combat the phenomenon. The current legislative framework was not effective, for technical reasons, because of the dispersal of services and control mechanisms and their subjection to various structures and ministries, the lack of operational responsibilities of the institutions, but mainly because of the apparent lack of political will. How effective a measure can it be, such as the Anti-Corruption Coordinator, when it has competence to draw up only reports identifying the phenomenon? Under these legislation, a coordinating body is set up to monitor and coordinate all the structures and services responsible for combating corruption and the main aim is the will to combat this phenomenon, which arises from the creation of this ministry, which is responsible for combating corruption. Ultimately, in my humble opinion, this government will succeed or not succeed from the development of negotiations with the partners, but from the level of anti-corruption, tax evasion and internal conflict. The previous governments were nurseries of inter-territorial, corruption and state-owned entrepreneurship. The draft law, which is the tool necessary for the uprooting of corruption nurseries and the government's will, is a sufficient treaty for its implementation. I am not in a position to make any progress, and I am going to raise just two points about the task of serving the political offices of the ministries which have heard a lot. If one reads the bill carefully, one will see that all services are managed by existing civil servants. In other words, civil servants are being exploited, there is no intake and there is no end to the armies of the poster and their total number is falling to five hundred and fifty-four instead of a thousand seventy-three - that is, about half of those who are currently employed - and a spending of about 50 million euros is being saved. Volunteer has also been quite wronged. I wanted to say a word about it because it was wronged by a provision in the bill. Evidently those who blame him have not found that in recent years there have been no structures of solidarity, social medicine/pharmaceuticals have supported this place and believe that it will be a loophole to create a day-to-day position. They're probably judging the odds themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u558	Thank you very much Mrs Panagiota Kozobol - Amanadidos. Mr Antony Gregos has the floor, and then Mr Charakides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u559	The Chief of Golden Dawn and the MPs may not be allowed to attend, but they are close to us and to the Greek people and have therefore been re-elected triumphantly for the third time as representatives of the Greek nation. I don't want to have a dialogue with the left-wing party or get into some rhetoric hate like they do, or make some kind of incitement to crimes and talk about snake eggs and stuff like that. Any designation you want to stick to Golden Dawn, we can say the same for you, we can call you the snake's egg or whatever we want. We have a democracy, and as we want to tell you. Anyway, some people can't stand democracy, but the Golden Dawn is back here. Over the numbers, over the statistics, the figures confirm the tragic reality. That of social dissolution, poverty, tolerance, lost dignity and, above all, self-defense. We are talking about the plan to combat the humanitarian crisis, to study the articles, to place ourselves, to vote 'yes' or 'no' in order to confirm the country's tragic situation by law. Who would have imagined a few years ago that today we would be discussing such a bill, then, in the years of virtual bliss, when the PASOK and New Democracy governments shared a hundred in their pocket and one in the world? And we're talking about unemployment, and we're talking about situations that are really tragic, that one can only experience when one actually gets into a home of people in need. Because it's not just the people we see looking for in the trash. It is these people who are decent in their homes and are in the tragic position not to have the living, not to be able to feed their children, not to have electricity, to freeze, to warm up and to die with primitive stoves. We since 2012, faithfully respecting our election commitments, were the first to stand alongside the tested Greeks by sharing thousands of tons of food with absolute order and safety and with our own hands. Of course, the junta of Samaras and Venizelos tried in every way to stop these actions in support of the Greek people. It is tragic and also indicative of the former government's mentality, which, let us not forget, was the one that, on its own responsibility, we now come to discuss such bills. You will tell me that the Greek people have honoured them with their vote but let no one ever forget who led the people to need today to discuss coupons, piles, 300kwh and many other essential goods. Most bodies during the hearing were positive and we voted in favour. Topical, of course, is the issue of corruption and interlocutory. It is certain that no committee or any body, whatever its competence, will be able to give a solution to this issue. That can only be done by the Golden Dawn, and that is why, as you know, we are being persecuted as a third political force, because we were the first to fight corruption and conflict. We revealed dozens of scandals and we will reveal more, very soon, not only to the Greek people but also to European citizens. I repeat again that only Golden Dawn can fight corruption. Of course, we appreciate your effort and we'll give you more information if you want. We can abolish the law on the responsibility of Ministers, open up the Cyprus file and much more. When we talk about corruption, we mean corruption in political life, in services, in the media. You know very well that some in Greece are above the law. Even for offences such as the abolition of the Constitution and the violation of the constitution, offences committed on the basis of a plan and by the previous government, they will not be punished, because, as I said before, they are above the law. We filed evidence intact but nothing's happened yet. I continue, however, as I have a duty to inform the Greek people and European citizens of the committing of these felonies. It is laughing and anger to the people that PASOK and the New Democracy talk to us to fight corruption and interlocutory, those who - as the Minister has said - committed economic crimes - the consequence of corruption and of the interlocutory - and with illegal economic benefit - have, as the criminal organisation has said. The Minister also said that there are mice that break public life. Of course, some are too large, some like small elephants. People know and circulate a list of names of dozens of politicians who made money abroad. We're talking about huge amounts that are on the Internet. Let's see what you're gonna do about it. So by intercepting our programme, as many do, you could adopt the following: Firstly, a change in the law on the recommendation of the Commission 'from a point of view', as was previously the case, with other parties involved. Can you imagine an extreme and ruthless scenario for New Democracy to collide with PASOK again? The two parties now participate in the Commission 'from now on'. Secondly, abolishing the funding of the parties. The money belongs to the Greek people and must be returned, as the Golden Dawn does. Thirdly, direct political cleansing, the thieves should go to prison to politicians and prostitutes and, at the same time, the property of those who abused the sweat of the Greek people. Fourthly, we call for the immediate abolition of parliamentary immunity and the law on the responsibility of Ministers, the discharge of public life by corrupt and fraudulent groups, the establishment of specific control groups to seek out those responsible for disseminating public money to all ministries and state agencies, and finally the referral to a special court, the imprisonment of those found guilty and the confiscation of their property. Fifthly, direct control by the ILO of the parties' economics. From the graphic speech by MP Venizelos, I will keep this in mind: in an observation by the President of the Parliament that some PASOK MPs were making a fuss, we heard Venizelos saying: "The parties cannot be blamed collectively." Perhaps he will come as a witness of defense in the Golden Dawn trial, since he is also a authoritarian, a man who lives in a luxurious villa, who as you know well circulates with armored Mercedes, a man with unstoppable riches. And because a lot of talk was again about the Golden Dawn, about who and why it has to do with us, you should know that it is a great honor to be a golden man, an honor that some of you will never have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u560	Thank you. Mr Charakidis has the floor and Mrs Kanellepoulou Maria.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u561	It was heard a moment ago by a colleague that Potami has not clearly stated its position on the humanitarian crisis bill. I must state, before my position, that the Potami has stated that the humanitarian crisis articles are voting on them. He votes for the first four articles. But it does not give a "white" check, it does not say "yes" to everything. It votes several of the other articles in the bill and several of the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, in her suggestion the Minister in the debate at first instance used the phrase 'for the first time' many times. Yes, you said, Minister, that for the first time the humanitarian crisis was recognized, as if it were not before. That's right. Everyone's left with the question. Is it a barbaric title or is there a humanitarian crisis? I fully accept - and I say this sincerely - what the government says, that we do have a humanitarian crisis. In fact, I accept your assessment that the extreme poverty in our country is estimated from 5% to 7%, from five hundred thousand to seven hundred thousand people. And the question comes: will the government spend the enormous sum of 200 million on our five hundred thousand fellow people? And if that is the case, then very easily a citizen who listens to us would say that the country has ten million and if they were all in extreme poverty, with 4-5 billion we could ease the situation, not to have extreme poverty in Greece and not to have a humanitarian crisis. We all need to know that the money spent in the country, not only from national resources, but mainly from the money we receive from the Community frameworks and especially from the European Social Fund, may be close to all four billion. It is - I think - utopia to believe that with 200 million we will face the humanitarian crisis. Of course, that's where another question comes in. Should we be content with this amount and say well again? If we look at the situation we have, the informal or any situation of Mr Varoufakis who has given to the partners and institutions, just in the last paragraph, says: "The Greek Government confirms its plan to ensure that the fight against the humanitarian crisis does not have a negative financial impact". And I ask myself: is this last paragraph, which exists in this text, also the one which brings us the problem yesterday and today, which is the refusal by the institutions? Do they read and tell us we're unreliable? Minister, with today's bill, we continue as a country to tackle the long-term problems associated with the survival of a part of society as problems of the economic crisis that is plagued by our country. Perhaps that is why the bill is also described as a plan to tackle the humanitarian crisis, and that is why it refers to extreme poverty, that is to say, no minimum incomes. We are continuing, in other words, the same mistake, to tackle a time-consuming problem which concerns not only Greece, but all the countries of the world, even the developed countries, and which, if you like, will continue to do so because of its dynamics in the future. So we must not look at who and how many are in extreme poverty today, but who and how many are below the poverty line, and how many will be potentially below this limit, using models and observers in our economy, who can predict with sufficient security at least the trend, that is, if it is growth or decrease. It is not allowed in a modern European state to know who and how many today's bill is concerned and must help them. And you know why? For two reasons. Firstly, because there is no co-operation between state and local authorities, there is neither cooperation between state and local government nor on this sensitive issue, in order for municipalities to provide their data for use in the state to finally draw up a plan that will deal with such problems over time. Secondly, because the state does not adopt good practices of municipalities and other bodies. I was also given the opportunity in the committee to tell you the initiatives we took when I was the mayor and I think that such a model should be followed, namely, to become a network of social solidarity. The first problem you will encounter, Minister, is that once you go to implement the measures, you will not find a body to implement them or there will be more bodies to ask for them to be implemented and not to know who will be the most effective. I'm sure it won't be central. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will see that this will create such problems that there will be bodies that will do the same. I told you in the debate in committee that we should avoid making the same benefits at the same time or making benefits at the same time and having benefits, for example. In March and then we'll have to again in September. There must be a constant supply, so that our fellow people who need our help, can soften up and do not have the problem that we have food today and tomorrow we do not have it, because you know it much better than each of us that the money is very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u562	Mr. Charakidis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u563	In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister: when do you expect the first provision to be started and when do you expect these interventions to be completed with our fellow people who need us? With regard to the costs covered, will they be exclusively from European Union resources, or will they be national resources in the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u564	We said it a hundred times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u565	It is not bad, because if we wait for European funds to be there, then things go far behind. And a third. Because also in the process of hearing the bodies, where we have heard the multiples, I have not heard - unless there has been any change - whether the limit will be EUR 220 per family...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u566	Mr. Charakides, other colleagues want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u567	Whether he's a four-member family or an eight-member family, the same thing will be?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u568	"As far as," he says, "until".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u569	Up to 220. But when it's 70 euros, then I think you understand that it's not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u570	The floor is for Mrs Maria Kanellepoulou to prepare Mrs Ammanatidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u571	"up to EUR 220"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u572	I'll say the same again. How many times do I have to say it? Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u573	Mr. Charakides, I have given the floor to Mrs. Amanatidou. Madam Minister, right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u574	You have given Mrs Canellepoulou the floor, Madam President, and she thanks you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u575	I'm sorry, Mrs. Canellepoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u576	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, history is not usually written by one act. It is the result of a series, a chain of actions, a sequence of steps leading to a symbolic movement. A condensing move, which summarizes, reminds how a set of things came to write history. The fact that we are debating and voting today - although adventurously, it is true - that a bill is not a history of itself. Historical is that this bill is passed by the first government of Greece to the left. I know that you do not like to hear it, that you are mocking it, but it is a government that has come up with social processes and has not been imposed by sinners behind the scenes and dark trades, a government which, as the only media, has the people themselves and not the people - the reason - folders who are literally plunging the public space. It is also historic, because the first bill of the new era is a bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis, because since the new government has not given guarantees to shipowners, bankers and contractors to be elected, it must give daily assurances of credibility and provide credentials of confidence to those who have to be the first to help: the hungry, the homeless, the impoverished. The third element that gives history, in a way, and in the very filing of this bill, is that it is an election commitment of that government. You see, ladies and gentlemen, forty years lies, untrustworthyness and demagogy are enough to be seen as a self-evident record. I do not want to go into economics, considering that my colleagues and colleagues have adequately analysed them, despite the unjust, petty, derogatory criticism they have received and continue to accept. By who? From those who had and applied for five years the Know-how of this country's destruction, from those who had been urging Greek citizens, to take their money from banks because SYRIZA, from those who threatened to leave the country if SYRIZA came from those who ruled by acts of legislative content and thousands of "commodities" and broke their garments for minimal necessities and "if we will discuss it", from those who are calling on us that we are late, we are late to legislate against the fast-track procedures that they had carried out during the previous period, where they were inextricably multi-nomous, multi-purpose bills of the type "whoever the chariot gets", general content or miscellaneous with ninety amendments of the last minute, as a rule. And here, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA is here and they are still here and continue the same badly-known violin of intimidation, lies, dangers. And they have the courage to say hypocritically that they wish this government to succeed, while at the same time they do not hide their joy - if they do not even urg: 'Sublete the throat' - when our partners threaten and blackmail us. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] They do not understand or do that they do not understand that the dark object of their desire - which is the failure of the Left Government with the body of SYRIZA - is equivalent to the assumption that others must decide for us and put us in order, because we are the 'naughty', the 'bad children' of Europe. Unfortunately for you, the Greek people have now understood that. That is why it supports the Cooperation Government massively, fanatically. So I do not want to go into specific issues that others know and manage better than I do, because, like all of us in SYRIZA, I do not celebrate with this legislative initiative, because it is not what we want, it is not what we dream, it is not what we have seen as the Left and as the government of social need and salvation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, it is only what we can do. And when we say 'what we can', we do not mean what we are allowed, that is what we are allowed. Alas, if a democratically elected government has to negotiate a bill with self-evident measures that will draw a number of thousands of people from this country, from the benches, from the squares and the trash bins. Woe if there were no unnegotiable measures concerning human lives and national dignity. Alas, if we can't do this bill, we can send a message to enemies and friends that it can finally and must be a state protection shield. So we are sending out a message with this bill - or rather with it, because they follow more - we are sending out a message to enemies and friends that the center of Athens, Thessaloniki and Patras, every corner of the country, will eventually not be or will stop being like the European centers, which so much like you, with thousands of pariahs hungry and homeless, left behind in their luck. Our insecure fellow citizens will gain access to health structures. No more households without electricity, no more deadly mangoes, no more hungry children, no more suicides. We know that here some people are hurt by listening to poverty and some have never seen any households without power. Some consider the epidemic of suicide to be a result of erotic frustration and some, they consider all these to be abstract ideas. We don't! We consider all this to be a humanitarian crisis. So we will insist with such bills, we will try to block downhill, we will ignore numbers and look people in the eye, we will help the helpless, because this is our one-way street. Because where the apes and the weak are left to their fate, where the poor are thrown out and unbearable garbage, where liberalism sets hands - hand to hand with fascism, and the extreme reason is investing in collective misery, there must be an answer. We'll give it to you. The Greek Parliament must be a Parliament of all Greeks. And that's what's gonna happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u577	Thank you, Mrs. Canellepoulou. Mrs Amanatidou has the floor. Mrs. Thalerite will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u578	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in Parliament these days to decide on a major issue. On how to take thousands of families, tens of thousands of our fellow citizens living below the poverty line, victims of a humanitarian crisis caused by the memorial and highly neoliberal policy of the previous governments. Because if it is not our duty to take care of these people, what will be our role in Parliament? Unemploymentd fellow citizens, who have remained trying to keep their dignity. For all of these today - and the colleague who came down from the Step, Maria Kanellepoulou - we must all stand up to the circumstances. Of course, I will not go into the whole range of the bill or the unnegotiable obligation for us all, of course, to vote for it, because that is what the ministers and colleagues from the SYRIZA have said and not only by others in their way. In particular, I will focus on Chapter III and Articles 29 and 30, which regulate two urgent issues. In recent years the start of the school year, unfortunately, has been accompanied by the debate on the transfer of pupils, which is one of the basic rights of children and should therefore be seen as self-evident. I have been in Parliament since 2007. Every year we face the same problems. School year starts without student transfer. And if urban centres are easy - there is urban transport - it is extremely difficult in this region. Every year we have one, two, three months without children having access to education. There is a disturbance in the school community, in the families, in the educational community. Every year we face the same thing, and not only the students who go to school in the next village. Where it's the most tragic, it's to disabled students. I say this because in Thessaloniki and in central Macedonia, which were most of the cumulative problems for the transfer of students, because some of the previous years had made direct assignments to some of the day with great amounts. We have a case of the Institute of Development Rehabilitation, which is in Pefka and takes children moving from the district of Thessaloniki, the villages of Thessaloniki, which do two and a half hours to get to school, take two hours and two and a half to three hours to go back to their villages. They are children with disabilities, children with disabilities, which is tragic to deal with in this way. Also, there are other schools that have specialities, such as music, artistics, which also take children from all over the prefecture. A regulation is now coming, not to stop pathogens, but because there is nothing else to be done. On 28 February, we would have no student transfer, and so simply this bill is trying to deal with the arrangements of Article 29 all the pathogens of the previous system, so that this year can be completed smoothly, always bearing in mind that a definitive solution is needed. This article regulates the extension until the end of the current school year 2014-2015 and promotes the rationalisation of the conditions, while not exceeding the total cost of last year. Equally important, however, are the arrangements laid down in Article 30 for benefits of sickness in kind, for unemployed, underemployed and other weak social groups, because in 2015, it cannot be considered a citizen without medical treatment. Especially in the case of self-employed and self-employed workers, we know all the problems that exist with the Free Professional Insurance Agency which is very serious and the government has decided to deal with them, starting with the forthcoming bill of 100 doses. This Article extends, inter alia, for a further year, the favourable regulation on the provision of medical care on conditional terms to members of the OIE and their families who have ceased their professional activity or made a declaration of inertia in the DUI or are continuing their professional activity and are not insured to another body. Prolongation for one year is provided, inter alia, for the payment of a monthly pension by the OGA and health care to insured over-ages. Today we are taking a first step, but a very important step, so that we can ensure what should be regarded as self-evident, a decent life for all the citizens of the country. Some have said it 'flying'. Others described them as unilateral actions. We regard them as non-negotiable, and that is only the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u579	Thank you, Mrs Amanatidou, too. Mrs Maria Theletiris, then Mr Constantine Barriotas, speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u580	Is that the last one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u582	The Late?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u583	I'll let you know right after. Here, Mrs. Welleritis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u584	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first bill of the new government, which sets a first framework for social solidarity in a time of crisis. Immediate measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis or, otherwise, neoliberal barbarism. This is the first time in a long time that parliament is voting for a law that does not contain cuts and reductions. I shall deal specifically with four points. Point one. What covers the draft law and what overall framework of policies is it part of? It is directly facing the humanitarian crisis through the guarantee of basic rights and goods - housing, food and energy - and, of course, it cannot or does not claim to replace the integration into the social and economic fabric of those who are unemployed or those who are precarious workers, because it is directly linked to a more comprehensive effort to reconstruct the country. That is why it has been very fairly integrated into the overall national social inclusion strategy, which is geared towards policies covering people and families who are suffering poverty and are therefore creating strategic and social investments aimed at social inclusion and decent living for families and strengthening employment and integration prospects in the labour market. Therefore, the bill to be voted on, and in particular Articles 1 to 5 thereof, proposing measures to cover essential goods such as energy, housing and feeding for people living in extreme poverty, due to the consequences of austerity and the economic crisis, is one of the programmes to address the extreme poverty that are being implemented and implemented by public and private bodies as well as by civil society actors. Point two. As far as the criticism that has been made to the government about this project is concerned, this is a small economic package, as was said or abandoned by the Thessaloniki programme. There are two points here which need to be stressed. The first point is that we are in economic suffocation both from the European and the global financial, economic and political system, precisely because we have chosen an alternative model, an alternative orientation. And as history says, the left is a government, the more suffocating is its international and economic blockade and therefore less the funds it has to distribute. Therefore, this reasonable question for those who criticize does not seem to answer or consider it. The second point to be made is that, in the light of the above, it is important not to think about the amount of the package, but about how we will manage, despite economic suffocation, to distribute this package, in other words to make better use of resources, to prioritise priorities at the same time to see how we experience a real situation of deprivation of resources and imperialist circles. The only sure thing about our own view is that this way is not politically neutral as it has happened in the past, because it requires the government to achieve social redistribution for the benefit of all the weak through a radicalisation of the means we have and the social subjects. Point 3: This draft law provides for the possibility of a horizontal institutional framework for the delegation of actions to public bodies and, in particular, decentralised, legal persons belonging to the regions and municipalities. This institutional framework includes mechanisms for consultation, coordination, monitoring and evaluation. In other words, it introduces institutions and models that can make use of existing social resources, and that is why it is very important to talk about the creation of permanent networks of horizontal and vertical cooperation through partnerships. In particular at local level, these partnerships are necessary because they can make better use of these resources and apply models that are more effective. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] Especially through partnerships can we deal with various power subsystems that take action in every chamber of social life enjoying privileges and discrimination, increase the cost of goods provided and undermine citizens' fundamental rights. In other words, these partnerships are necessary, because at the moment we are well aware of the way in which services are provided through local government structures, namely, how local government is engaged in social policy, without executive capacity, and therefore the institutions and mechanisms at local level and the recording of social needs by means of partnerships are necessary to implement this programme. Finally, I shall end by terminating 'extreme poverty'. It is true that there is no definition of extreme poverty as we mean it because there is a need to redefine the definition of extreme poverty with new estimates of the extent, forms and intensity of this new poverty, because it comes from monumental policies and periods of severe austerity. So we cannot talk about minimum guaranteed income when we do not have any social protection systems and when exactly this extreme poverty has taken other forms. Therefore, dealing with it requires a policy grid and this bill is one of these policy meshs to address extreme poverty. To conclude, I would like to remind you that too many times population groups in extreme poverty are not adequately covered by existing programmes implemented by either the Ministry or local government, precisely because the provision of benefits and other benefits does not meet other needs of the beneficiaries, nor does the level of benefits limit the size, risk of this poverty, how much more so when this operation of the programmes is totally fragmented and does not guarantee elementary access by beneficiaries to a package of basic quality services. In other words, we should have at this time stability of the structures implementing this programme, networking and changing the model of approaching services, complementarity of the programmes and interventions that are necessary to tackle extreme poverty, particularly when it comes after five years of austerity policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u585	Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. The time is 0.00 p.m. Normally, we said the meeting would go by 0.00 p.m. I would like to propose to the House the procedure we are going to follow. I will inform you of the procedure that we shall follow and give time to ensure that there is a normal place for Parliament and for the procedure. I propose that they speak another seven speakers. I read you from the list the names: It is Mr Barriots Konstantinos, Mrs Vassilis Katrivanou, Mrs Liana Kanelli, Mrs Sia Anagnostopoulos, Mr Georgios Psychogios, Mrs Chrysula Katsavria - Sioropoulou and Mr Vasilis Tsirkas. I think I read seven speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u586	It's all SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u587	No, they're not all SYRIZA. In relation to the procedure, I would like to say that the reason why I propose it is and to enable the procedure to be carried out properly. First of all, I would like to thank you very much - not by gratitude, but by institutional obligation - the ministers who responded to yesterday's speech from the Bureau in time to explain their amendments, how they say they should be introduced into the bill. Because, according to what we have said - and it is my commitment from the Bureau - amendments which do not meet the constitutional requirements and the conditions of the Rules of Procedure will not be accepted. It will not repeat the phenomenon of the Bureau, which represents the awkwardness and inability to implement the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. I think that the oral development of the amendments which have been made has shown that the overwhelming majority is indeed subject to those constitutional arrangements and conditions which allow them to be debated and voted on. However, there have also been some of which have been spoken in sperm by some speeches that they may not meet the constitutional requirements. That view could also be supported. That is why, and since this Bureau is not going to surprise or make'spray, wipe, finish' procedures, and go out with amendments which exempt bankers from criminal responsibilities for cochairing, so in time, I say that we will close the procedure to seven speakers. For the amendments which have been tabled, I would suggest that if there is any objection to any, namely that it is not covered by the constitutional provision, that the objection should be raised and that the vote should be taken by means of a vote, as provided for in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. That's my proposal. I think that it is completely upholding democratic function and that is how we shall proceed. I am also telling you now, because nothing will be hidden here, that it will be possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Rule 104, 'if new articles are added or accepted in the debate, the vote on the whole will be postponed to include in the original text of the bill or the proposal for a law the articles that have been added or the amendments that have been accepted. The new articles and amendments to the original text are to be incorporated by the relevant Boulevard departments with the cooperation of the relevant Minister and the supervision of the President of Boulevard. According to the previous paragraph, a text of the bill or proposal for a law shall be voted on in its entirety after twenty-four hours have elapsed since it was distributed to Members.’ In this regard, I have been informed by the services that they are ready to vote on the whole by introducing the amendments and exporting those that may be rejected or, if not rejected, by everyone. My proposal to this House is to accept the vote to be taken as a whole, but knowing that this is by decision of the House and on the basis of the procedure that we are deciding here. You have all the time to place yourself on this. I explained the procedure. I think that the position of the ministers has shown that there is an absolute urgency in relation to amendments and regulations of the draft law which require us to accept this derogation from the vote as a whole. I would like to say that in the previous period this provision was violated in every case, but in every bill. Because I was personally among the Members who were complaining about this violation, I have to say what procedure is to be followed and I have this House to decide. Now, the next speaker, Mr Barriots Konstantinos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u588	Can I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u589	In the end. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u590	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u591	Why not speak ten speakers, Madam President? Because the Bureau cannot hold the time and instead of five minutes each speaker speaks ten minutes, all these people will not speak in here? The Bureau is responsible for speaking for ten minutes and for what I think is not the present and the Ethiopian. At the moment, thirty - forty Members will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u592	Do you want it not to be seven and be ten speakers, so that you and Mrs Antonio may be in them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u593	I'm not saying it to talk to you. To talk to those who need to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u594	I have no objections. Talk to you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u595	The Bureau is responsible for ensuring that the time is not correct...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u596	Talk to you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u597	It's not me to talk, but why not seven and not ten?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u598	I'm sorry, Mr. Georgioda, but you're not on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u599	Let us agree on a procedure before the end of the procedure. It helps.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u600	The MPs will talk. The congressman has gone up to Stepma. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u601	I will try to keep time, because one of the things that really makes me look like a new Member is that the procedures in the Greek Parliament are neither staggered nor given. Even simple things need to be discussed. Today was a great disappointment to me, as it was a very difficult day. Things have been said and heard about the procedure and not just, which I thought are data and that the procedures are running. I would like to point out that at all conferences and with the possible exception of my nipples and student amphitheatres, the times are maintained or an attempt is made to observe. As Mr Georgiodas quite rightly said, they are deeply undemocratic, in my opinion, and not democratically speaking time. Forty Members have not spoken today, even more have not spoken with the flexibility of time during the debate on the programming declarations. I believe that the consolidation of procedures and the maintenance of time is a precondition for a smooth democratic operation. I'm going through the bill discussion. To start with something hairy. You all know the story that says that when you give a fish to a poor man eats one day and when you teach him to fish he eats forever. I am saying this because I was really impressed by many colleagues in the Couple that there is a confusion - by hearing them celebrate left-wing politics - between charity, which is to give them the fish, and politics, which I am learning to fish for. Do not misunderstand me, I do not regard charity or the granting of aids and solidarity as insignificant or minor. But to God, I do not think it is a political one and even a left policy on its own. I have heard from other colleagues, and I really expect to hear from the Session about policies that handle the weak groups, which give opportunities for emancipation, equal opportunities for the weak population, for the groups that suffer and suffer, and I will actually wait for them. Otherwise, to get into the bill, as I said in committee, there is a great ambiguity. Mrs Fotou said today that there are too many ways in which poverty is measured, and I imagine that it is true and knows everyone, but she has therefore avoided them, in this process of the week she has passed, to tell us how the Ministry and the legislator of poverty counts in this bill, referring to the deeply problematic article 5, which provides for heterogeneity - to remember some old words that have been heard in this Parliament - in the CYRs. We do not know who, in how and when it will benefit from the sponsorships provided for in the previous articles. We'll find out in time, and we'll find out from the newspapers because it won't be legislated in here, it'll be written in a CIA. Let us at least hope that it will be what it should be and we will be given the opportunity to discuss it in an ex post manner. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first bill of the 'first time left' government, and I very much fear that its mark in this respect is not good. I hope it is because it is the first and state of some exceptional circumstances, I have to recognize, but its position includes all those evils that characterize the country's public functions and not just Parliament: The convenience of the first five articles on poverty - we will see them later - statements, generalities. The curiosity of the changes in the second chapter on corruption, where we take small pieces of cubes and reorder them in a certain way. Unfortunately, in the third chapter on the functioning of the government, with the appointment of Deputy Secretary-General and that new and really very original chapter of volunteers on travel, which I still don't understand why and how he got there. Finally, it is the traditional Greek phenomenon, the 'blocks' which are called amendments to the House, which go from behind, to deal with problems and for which I will devote the last thirty seconds and try to keep the time. The first relates to the insurance in which we are also going to vote on the amendments covering our fellow citizens who have lost their right to insurance, with the reminder that this is a situation which is also unfair to those who pay and problematic to those who cannot pay and depend on amendments. It would be good at some point to see it as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, if I have thirty seconds, I would like to say that, in my opinion, the other amendments to the hospitals that the Minister of Health has brought down have also been cut off, because the hospitals are indeed falling apart. But not only do they fall apart from the Memorandum of Costs, but they also collapse from one year of maladministration, which is mainly due to party appointments and hospital administrations. Here's a bet, because the first points are negative, and we'll wait to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u602	Thank you, Mr President. You saw that despite your introduction, you, too, have violated the time. The next speaker is Mrs Vassilis Katrivanou. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u603	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr Ministers, Madam President, I consider it very important that we are currently discussing and voting on the first bill brought by SYRIZA, which concerns the humanitarian crisis and corruption, and which I consider to be very important and symbolic and political in substance. It is the first step, but it is essential, in essence, that people stay out of power in extreme poverty. The Greek Government, with this bill in a clear, clear and official way, recognises the humanitarian crisis and its bourgeoisity, recognises that the policy of the memorial and austerity has produced it and at the same time says that the victims of the memoranda and the crisis are not responsible for the destruction and disastrousness in which they stand, but are responsible for this policy and need solidarity networks and support networks that restore social cohesion and that is why the government is coming to promote this direction. Along with this bill that we are discussing, it has been an equally important event, and that is the statements made by the representative of the Commission, as well as by the President of the Eurogroup that we cannot take unilateral action. In other words, there is an intervention which essentially calls into question the power of the government to pursue a policy and the power of the House to legislate. It is an anti-democratic concept, which calls into question the essence of democracy, political and national sovereignty and puts custody in place. I think that at this point and we see how important this bill is, which some call it "for crumbs" or "a hole in water", but we see the question of democracy as it enters, and national sovereignty, and there we ask for a clear position from all parties, how they are placed against the statements and interventions of Costello and Düsselblum, clearly. We see that doubles come and return, which are on the one hand, democracy, solidarity and social solidarity, and on the other austerity and authoritarianism. On this, then, the dual one, which on the one hand has the humanitarian crisis, solidarity and democracy, is good for there to be wider shocks in spite of all the differences in vision. In this sense it is good that both the New Democracy and the PASOK, who have moved very differently throughout the previous period and have denied the humanitarian crisis as we recognise it and even though they are subject to a vote. But in the same context I cannot say the same thing about the Golden Dawn vote. Golden Dawn, this party, the criminal organization, which has used the territory of the humanitarian crisis to develop all hatred, racism, intolerance, arrogantism, to use it now and to be philanthropist and antimony to wash it out in the consciousness of Greek democracy. It can't be done. We cannot forget so fast images, the pogroms that were taking place against foreigners, and where the Members of the Golden Dawn and its officials were here, the fact that they were asking for the number of infants in nursery stations, the fact that they were in hospitals and wanted to see what the nurses who were foreign were, the fact that they were sprinkling violence on the streets and that people were afraid to walk, that they were smuggling immigrants, anti-fascists, leftists, gays, Roma, that they had the poor to dive and beat immigrants. All of this - with the leadership of the Golden Dawn sitting there - we cannot forget about it and cannot get rid of it here and now because they are voting on this bill on the humanitarian crisis. Because our own intervention has the direction of solidarity, of humanity, of equality, where everyone lives, against neo-naziism, of intolerance, of racism, of which they have just been on television and have spoken, and it is in a completely opposite direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, because now there is a decency and a thing of my own to say in the speech, not to forget and to wash them easily, for Greek democracy, for our future and for us to project a supposedly anti-monstrous and philanthropic face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u604	Thank you, too. Mrs Lianna Kanelly has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u605	Thank you, Madam President. When there has been a long time at the meeting and many people have spoken and a lot has been heard, those who speak at the end have the privileged position to be able to freely comment on all previous speakers, especially at the parliamentary level, without the possibility of denial by the Member. Since this process is very often done here in selfie, I will avoid temptation and I will renounce the privilege of commenting at the level of people, at the level of people, by asking you to remember the man who refused to become a MP in his glory, refused to become an academic - the date has passed - and I will speak with his own words today. Odysseus Elytis passed to immortality in 1996, March 18th. And if I wanted to keep his words, I have the impression that they can say as much as they won't allow us to forget. Because there's one truth. You can talk about Elytes and his sun. Find rheumatism in the swastika is out of the question. There is no rheumatism in the swastika, nor as a cultural product. We moved as a process to the west of sadness, when the Prime Minister leaves to negotiate. Where? In the West, to which we belong at all costs, every way, every currency and finally at every price. That's why we're here now. Yeah, the bill's crumb. There's no doubt that the bill is crumbly. And the bill is crunchy, because, as the poet says - from the sign I got it, otherwise it's infinite, because here we heard signals from each other, signals from the other, signals from the other, signals from the other, all signals are transmitted, signals sent by the Prime Minister, signals from the others, signals from here, signals from there, we are lost - and he says it very well: "When the calamity is good, he reasoned for whore". So when the calamity of someone - and poverty is a disaster - we have to find out who it is. We cannot baptize it in any other way. There's no other word invented. It's called capitalism. Capital is a head, it's not just capital. We can't put any more conditions on him. Humanitarian crisis can also cause an earthquake. Humanitarian crisis can also cause a tsunami. Humanitarian crisis can also cause a drought. Neoliberals found it and they use it as a term of the humanitarian crisis, to build those systems, to deal with things as they want. The JRC insists it's crumbs. And he's right to insist that she's crumbs. The poet comes along and confirms, ladies and gentlemen, "Unfortunately the land with our own costs is returning". I won't put a depth in the soul, a deep soul, a soul shallow. I won't do it today. I will not do this since the black people have spoken. And we've talked a lot about the blacks, not the color of the skin, the color of ideology. And the poet says it better than everyone and clarifies the one you build inside, outside Parliament, as preparing your defense line for the forthcoming trial. Because that is what you are doing, and that is how you are using Parliament, as you have already said. And it's a goblin tactic and it's a pabaley. The poet answers you in such a way that you can't see him. You will be twisted by his "selves": "From its natural point of view Maurilla must also be occult". And in this he even answers Palermo, even in the criminal organization, he has, he has no profits, because you have another way to make profits. I don't know if we're gonna pay in air, but Elytis says that "when you hear air, it's the peace he has had." And when you talk about 'extreme', more urgent than poverty does not exist! Poverty means profits for some. Especially for those who were yelling "hot, burn the Parliament's brothel", to connect it to the whore, calamity. You cannot convince with the government's first bill that the "square of indignant" became "a city of enthusiasm"! You can't do it. And that can't be done with crumbs. Let me just hang up with a word. We talked about class, talked about how things work. Keep it west and east and north and south of grief. When you hear "class", human meat smells. And this is not treated with procedures like the one we followed today. Not because they weren't wide. Not because he didn't give time. After all, "give free time, if you want it, to be a little dignity," said the poet. From time to time, then, we have. We've had dignity. If we have given dignity to our positions, this will show the urgency of the people's needs. And this was urgent in this House today, we did not handle it the way we should have handled it for too many years. Why, while staying inside the European Union, on any condition, with any Costello, with any Merkel, with any one of the people you negotiate with, sometimes and unresolvedly, in the past and now, you must admit one thing: it is neither charity nor anything! It is a Union of monopolistic interests and it is not only the Greek people who suffer. The working classes of the whole of Europe suffer and the bourgeois classes that perpetuate the negotiations are gaining. In this sense, we will vote for it, conscious of the fact that you cannot feed all the people who produce all the crumbs that eat a simple sparrow, unless you don't want him up at the top of the mountains to ignore his needs and take care of them yourself, by taking care of his wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u606	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. Mrs Ithanasia Ignastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u607	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk at the end, we have the privilege of hearing everyone else and, of course, of having said too much of what he wanted to say. I will start by saying that this first bill, which comes from the government with a left-wing party, concerns the humanitarian crisis, and that is of great symbolic importance, but also of real importance. Many people have spoken of the real importance. I'm going to talk a little bit about the symbolic importance of this first bill. After almost two hundred years of the establishment of the Greek state, one of the oldest nations - states on the European continent, we are coming in 2015 to talk about the humanitarian crisis. That means there's a big one because we shouldn't forget it. Why does this old nation - state have to discuss this matter in 2015? Why does the Left Government bring this to the top? I believe that, because it comes to remind the statutes, the constituent elements of this state, which were to ensure the life, the honor and the property of the people of this place. In this sense, I would like to say that he is reminiscent of what a citizen means and that the citizen has rights. And these rights are: the right to food, the right to home, the price of it, that is, the same. Without these rights - which are not privileges to the few - there cannot be a democratic state. So this government with this bill reminds us first of all of all and reclaims what we have lost in recent years and for which some are responsible. They are also responsible for how we got to the economic crisis and then to the humanitarian crisis. The second thing that comes to do is to remind and redeem what was in the statutes of Europe itself from the French Revolution up to the last few years, that is to say, to place humanism as a limit to the economy. This humanitarian crisis bill many and many of the opposition thought it 'fly', you considered it nothing and even said by the party representative Potami that he did nothing but strengthen customer relations. I would say that only under the heading 'National Strategy for Social Integration' returns some very important things that we tend to forget about. With this bill we remind this Europe in this European Union, but also in our country what neoliberalism means and what an adversary force in neoliberalism means. And rival power to neoliberalism is to restore through such a bill the basic values of Enlightenment. And here I would argue with the KIC that we cannot have a perspective for socialism if we do not have a start from where the Left started, from where it started. And that was the Enlightenment, so we could take a step further. Because time is running, I would like to say one thing: we should not give any forgiveness to the Golden Dawn, and this House should not forget it, because its trial is imminent too. In the draft law, there is provision for immigrants too, and that is what we need to stress. The humanitarian crisis and its response are not only about those who are in the bloodstream of Greeks, but those who, as the first revolutionary constitutions said, come to remember them, come to compete, fight with us here, in this place. And these are immigrants. A final point that some previous speakers have said about unilateral actions and so on. The position of this House must be clear in relation to the speeches on the issues that have already been raised in the reforms submitted by this government. I am referring to yesterday's speech, both violent and from Costello and from Diaselblum. They have to tell us too much. I will not just stay on the issue of national sovereignty. I'll stay and stress something else. In all this, there is one serious suggestion: that in this Europe for the first time a government combines two things, the way with the institutions. It recalls in this Europe that democracy without dialogue between social demands and institutions cannot exist. That is why I consider the bill to be very important, and the first part and the second to which I have not been able to refer. For its second part specifically rationalizes the control that the state must have in order to be able to defeat corruption, one, namely, rationalized centralism, which was one of the key elements of Enlightenment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u608	We thank Mrs Anagnostopoulou and especially her historical report on the basis of and her capacity. Let me not resist the temptation to make a constitutional reference. The Trizina Constitution, therefore, provided that human rights and the protection of the Constitution were enjoyed by all those on the ground. And I cannot remember that when we put them in the media, which today give democratic recitals, they were cut off to establish these atrocious detention centres that are concentration camps. And they brought them governments over the past five years. I apologise for this personal misconduct, but I felt the need to complete it. Mrs Fotou has the floor for some sort of legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u609	I won't give you any more time tonight. I think now you're gonna share the whole body as it is. I just want to point out that Amendment 17 remains the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u610	Let me clarify, before I give the floor to the next speaker, that, for the first time, we will respect what the Rules of Procedure say and distribute to all the Members what the services have prepared with all the amendments and legislative improvements. In other words, you will all have what you are voting on, and of course there will also be the possibility if there is any objection to it. Mr. Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u611	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the content of the articles of this bill, I would like to highlight two points which have arisen from the Prime Minister's intervention during the debate on this subject. Firstly, the fact that Europe and the institutions that make up it should respect and guarantee Greece's equal position in the European structure, where a Member State has not only obligations, but also rights. In this context, the halt of the humanitarian crisis in Greece, which was set as a priority by the Greek Government, is an essential task of a favoured state operating within the European Union. Contrary to the above, the consequences of the crisis, which includes ever larger groups of society, were taken by the previous government as parallel losses of a dead end and inhumane program. Secondly, the fact that the government normally proceeds to the deposit of the bills specialising in the programme and its election commitments, despite threats and interventions within the country by officials of the European institutions. With the current and forthcoming bills, the aim is, on the one hand, to relieve those social strata that are most affected by the economic crisis and, on the other, to award social justice to the distribution of tax and other burdens. On the articles now. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on specific articles from the whole bill. First of all, on the basis of the wording, content and clarifications of the Minister of State against Corruption, Mrs. Panagiotis Nikoloudis, the following arises: With regard to Article 7 of this Agreement, which concerns the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption, an operational nature shall be assigned to its operation and action. In fact, under paragraph (d) of that Article, conflicts and issues of overlaps between services and bodies involved in the fight against corruption are removed. In accordance with the relevant decisive clarification of the Minister, there is no conflict of competence between the services or bodies of that Article and the public prosecutors. On the contrary, the aim is to overcome bureaucratic and administrative difficulties arising from the coordination and effectiveness of the State mechanism in this direction. The provision of Article 10 also goes in the same direction, which, with the necessary legislative improvements made by the relevant Minister, gives a clear role in the implementation of coordinated anti-corruption action programmes by the General Secretariat. Similarly, Article 12 of this programme aims to improve the coordination of these programmes, with respect for the role of each institution, but also with the use of all the available mechanisms of the State. These mechanisms, as the competent Minister pointed out, do not include the public prosecutors, who are in any case organised on the basis of an individual system. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that until now there have been no substantial results in the fight against corruption, on the one hand because of the intention in some cases of the reappointment of the relevant services and, on the other hand, because of the lack of political will on the part of the former governments to clash with established and consolidated interests. These were the reasons why the previous institution, the National Coordinator against Corruption, did not deliver the expected results, despite the fact that its institutionalisation incorporated important provisions, while the person called upon to apply them and coordinate them, Mr Tendes, was professedly excellent. Finally, I would like to say that corruption and interlocutory phenomena appear in all the countries of the Western world and it can be accepted that the above are interlinked with the capitalist system. However, it is worth, in my view, ladies and gentlemen, of hitting corruption and conflict here for two reasons: Firstly, in order to give social and tax justice to the requirements of the Constitution and, secondly, to make workers and small and medium-sized enterprises more accessible to the wealth produced by the same wealth, which is concentrated and focused on specific business and economic elites. I would like to continue with the articles of the humanitarian crisis, saying that they refer to a category of people living in unacceptable conditions, depriving them of basic social and economic rights, a category of devastated commemorative barbarism which has affected the majority of social and professional groups, but some people have pushed them aside, excluded from social life, and put them on many issues and survival. A left-wing government would not be able to start with this bill on the humanitarian crisis, defending its standing positions and claims. This bill does not involve a mere sensitivity or charity on the part of the government. It is also in no way an impulse. In conclusion, I would like to dwell on the amendment to Article 30 of the present, tabled by the Ministry of Labour, on access, other than engineers, and to legal and health care for sickness benefits in kind until 29-2-2016. This amendment is very important, as it concerns legal persons whose working and income situation, particularly young colleagues, is demolished. This is a matter of temporary and partly serious concern to our industry. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to finish by saying that, as the Prime Minister said in his speech, the government continues without taking a step backwards. What we must guarantee and say is that from now on, either small or large, the steps of this government will always be forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u612	Thank you, Mr. Georgios Psychogios, MP of SYRIZA. Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u613	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to this House today to be in plenary for the first time, I was thinking, if SYRIZA had not been elected first party, if the citizens had given in to the campaign for fear and terror, then the first draft law we were going to discuss today would not be about dealing with the humanitarian crisis, but about the tough memorandum measures, further reductions in wages and pensions, and not just about. But the people have decided. So, today, we are called in a period of harsh crisis and a difficult negotiation to vote for the first time on measures that society needs, which will alleviate our poor and helpless fellow citizens. It is no coincidence that the first philosophical bill of recent years has been tabled to the House by a government with a torso on the radical left. And that is because the government has not emerged from the well-known centres of interest, but from social movements, from ordinary struggling people. The mere fact that we have avoided the planned cuts and are today voting for the first philosophical measures reveals that this government respects the life and history of the Greek people. It also respects its electoral commitments. And here, at this point, let me say that we are original. In the difficult years of the crisis we have experienced families who have been deprived of basic living goods. Homes without power, neighbors threatened with extermination because of their inability to pay the rent, classmates of our children who cannot be adequately fed by their families, workers who have lost their jobs. We have known our fellow people that their remuneration is not sufficient to pay for their insurance funds, to the state and to the banks, so that they do not have health care, that they are unable to pay tax and are often desperate to get into extreme situations. Dissolved hospitals with doctors to do double and triple on-call, often informal and unpaid. Farmers who are impoverished, at a time when they are waiting to return to their jobs, and fortunately we know that a Ministerial decision is being drawn up. These tragic phenomena, which are unfortunately part of our daily lives, are trying to deal with the bill under discussion. These are regulations concerning the restoration of minimum rights, which has been deprived of much of our people. These rights are now beginning to be restored. The disaster that has occurred is a great deal. So the course will be far. We're starting with the basics. Medical coverage for all, unemployed, uninsured, students, for those who have lost their insurance right. Favourable regulations for tax and public debts. Free electricity, feeding and rental allowance in three hundred thousand families. Any attempt to rebuild our society can only start with its weaker strata. Even in times of deep crisis and lending, the state must fulfil its basic task: to guarantee a decent living for its citizens. These measures will favour the economy as a whole and not only the beneficiaries. For example, the rental allowance will give shelter to people who deprive it and at the same time stimulate property rentals. At the same time, the tax arrangements are to increase tax revenue. This is, of course, the first symbolic step to give a first breath. The country's reconstruction course will be long. A lot of things need to change. I could table a series of proposals, however, respecting the limitation of time, I am going to be the following. There are many untreated properties belonging to various bodies and organisations that can serve directly for the feeding and housing of our homeless and very poor fellow citizens and function as food collection centres and main types of household equipment for those who need them, as well as for the creation of other social structures. Of course, I understand the difficulties, since these buildings belong to various and heterogeneous entities in municipalities, regions, OSE, PPC and other organisations, the cooperation with which involves a large number of administrative procedures and actions. It's not easy. But without underestimating the difficulties, I propose to the Government that it draw up a plan for the immediate use of these facilities. In such an effort we know very well that we will find people and solidarity movements that have given so many struggles with us against the memorandum. All these people are in the mood to offer, and that is why they expect a lot of us to do. Ladies and gentlemen, the images of homeless people on the streets, of poor people looking for food in the trash, of those who are looking for loan to pay for PPC, of those who do not enjoy medical coverage, insult human value and honor neither of us. I hope, with a large majority, that our shameful images will stop here. It is our duty and duty today to deal with this unprecedented tragic phenomenon of the humanitarian crisis. To defend the right and the future of our people. To remove the nightmare that our country lives and to stand with due responsibility for the history and struggles of yesterday and today. That is what we are doing, and it is out of every negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u614	Thank you, Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou. Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u615	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is my first speech in Parliament, which, of course, because of the last hour, I could have omitted. Most of them, indeed, have been said by colleagues with much greater parliamentary experience than I do, but my intervention and my voice come to be added to those colleagues and colleagues who came to this forum to defend this first historic, in my opinion, a bill of the Government of Social Rescue. It has been said in many ways that the measures proposed in the bill, especially to tackle the humanitarian crisis, are a first, complete, however, step towards alleviating our fellow citizens who live in extreme poverty. It was imperative to address the social consequences of the deep recession in the economy, resulting in the commitment of the Memorandum to failed recipes. They say the numbers are the best way to lie. I believe, however, that the issues that we are discussing today, the figures and figures are insignificant. The unemployed amount to one million three hundred thousand, while 52% of our younger fellow citizens are jobless. A great deal of economic weakness has been achieved, as previous colleagues have said, by single parent households, non-economicly multilateral households and older people. In the previous period, our country has won a sad first as we are the country which has the greatest reduction in social spending in the Eurozone. So the proposed bill is the first embezzlement in the fight against the humanitarian crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply convinced that work is the foundation of every society. In this sense, allowances and exceptional provisions are a transitional programme until we can overthrow economic hardship and combat unemployment. Nevertheless, the bill has a strong political and symbolic meaning. First and foremost, the safeguarding of the term humanitarian crisis brings with it a major blow to the supporters of the success stories of the previous period, this term highlights the complete failure of the policies of austerity, and that is why the austerity pioneer in the Eurozone, Mr Soyble, has reckoned and opposed the adoption of this term. We could say, over and above the dense clouds of the crisis we have received, paraphrasing the lyrics of Yannis Ritchos that this is where we start toward the Sun. We are well aware that the measures we take are the minimum of what the Greek people deserve and what we owe him, in fact, to him, the people who paid so hard and still pays the consequences of the memoranda and the economic crisis. The road to dignity is long, but we will go to him and go up to the end with the head up, we have no choice, and in fact, with steps that will every day increase hope and iron the faith in our people that we will win, that the tragedy of Greece is coming to an end. And it is not a question of us making a difference. The question is to arrest this anguish of our Greek fellow citizens who have really remained at the mercy of their destiny. Last poverty, human misery is a dramatic situation which affects us all, much more afflicts the country, a country that wants to be called just, civilized and European. And that is why it makes no sense to describe the concept of the humanitarian crisis and to analyse its effects, nor to list the reasons for the immediate action taken by our government. It is important to forge our conviction that it does not fit the history, culture and struggles of the Greeks, nor the term "humanist crisis" nor its confrontation. It is important to proclaim that our vision is a society with democracy, justice, dignity. That is why we want the measures that we are taking today to be temporary, and we want them to have an end date, and that is very quickly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The government, therefore, received with the Greek people's vote the historic responsibility to open the way for returning to humanity and social solidarity, but it received much more the message that it could dawn a different day. The bill, therefore, and especially the measures to tackle the humanitarian crisis, is the beginning of hope, is the beginning of our struggle for the end of the monumental cruelty, and it is our prospect to convince us with our work and our action in society that man is not consumable material or exploitable of all kinds. Man for us is a primary value, it is a criterion for assessing the institutions and functions of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u616	Thank you, Mr. Circa. Mr Georgioda was asked to complain about the fact that seven speakers did not include a Member of the New Democracy. And you asked, Mr Georgioda, why should it be seven and not ten. The next three speakers, however, to fill out the ten, are all absent and Mrs Karamanlis and Mr Skrekas and Mrs Karamanlis. I'll give you the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u617	Wait a minute, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u618	Mrs. Antoniou, I'll give you the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u619	In place of Mrs Karamanlis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u620	Don't ignit yourself. I'll give you the opportunity. So since the next three are absent, I propose that, until the entire text of the bill is shared in this House and everyone gets it, they should speak another three speakers. So Mr. Georgantas, Mr. Paulakis and Mrs. Antonios. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u621	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u622	Unexpectedly satisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u623	I hope that you will be able to compare it with other procedures. Here you go, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u624	Thank you, Madam President. I understand the attempt - I think we all see it - made by the Bureau to speak as many Members as possible. Unfortunately, however, it is not followed and the time given by the Bureau is not respected. The responsibility, of course, for keeping time lies with the Bureau, but I also think that Members who are speaking must be self-sufficient, because they must understand that overcoming time, overreacting - let me be allowed to speak - is the one that ultimately deprives many Members of the right to speak. They all have to understand that, however important we think we have something important and important to say to the House - and we certainly have something to say - none of us have the absolute truth to want to say everything he has in mind, no matter how much time he will need. Self-restriction is not only an obligation under the Rules of Procedure, it is also an advantage. It's also a demonstration of democratic ethos. Today we would not have the image of twenty or thirty Members who wished to speak not to have the opportunity at long last. Furthermore, Madam President, I would also really like to welcome the effort you are making to present the relevant ministers and to explain the urgency of the amendments they bring and, at the same time, their link to the draft legislation under discussion. However, your own initiative sometimes stays late and I would like to say that it does not mean that every minister who comes here to support his amendment is able to convince us in the end to link the amendment to the draft legislation in question, but also to the urgency of the amendment, which he brings to us. I think that today we have seen some of the cases. At least one, which I was able to see, has to do with the amendment brought by the Minister of Finance, who, in relation to the use of the funds of the legal persons governed by public law and the insurers, where trying to explain the urgency of this kind, I do not think he persuaded many people in this Chamber. With regard to the draft law under discussion, let us hope that creative ambiguity has become a reason for our public debate and, unfortunately, there is also in this bill, at least in its first articles, to be able to take a concrete form so that it serves the purpose for which it is today voted on by all the governments of the Parliament. I say this because, unfortunately, there is evidence that makes me think that at the end of the day, the feasibility and usefulness of this bill do not know whether it will be served as it should and when. While the headline of the bill speaks of immediate measures, and simply that it is then left to the adoption of joint ministerial decisions and to circulars the implementation of the largest part and the form that has to take this bill, I think it should make us sceptical. Unfortunately, the income and social criteria of the beneficiaries, the way in which the declarations made by the beneficiaries, applications, the authorities who will get the applications and then check the content of these applications and the partnerships with the necessary public and private bodies, which are necessary for the implementation of the measures provided for in this bill, make me think that it will be a long time, many months - and I wish to go out liar - so that those who need this aid really need to see it implemented. I believe - and I wish I could deny it - that if we did ten days to vote for this bill, we will have several months to see its implementation. Let us hope that this creative ambiguity of this bill - which has the justification for me that it was the first of the government - does not become creative ambiguity in all the bills that will then come, because the country is in danger of being abstract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u625	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Polakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u626	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by closing a long and rich debate in the first bill on the humanitarian crisis, the fight against corruption and the new organisation of the government, I too would like to make a few comments. I think that the debate on the articles and the comments has been exhausted and a number of amendments have been tabled. I want to make two - three political observations. Firstly, our government, after yesterday's and today's shameful blackmails that it accepts from the dominant conservative portions in the European Union, proves that it has the guts to keep its programme, which the Greek people have elected for. Despite the fact that some technocrats regard as a unilateral energy to ensure home, lighting, heating and feeding to the poor layers of our society, we will do so and vote for it tonight. They consider as a unilateral energy that we will adjust the doses so that we can take off the "shell" from a huge majority of the Greek people who, where they were not in debt, were found to owe them and take this dolphin out by adjusting the hundreds of doses. We prove that, in the face of the needs of our people, we do not understand either extortion or threats. This is a very serious political signal and in view of the negotiation of the next few days. They tried to get us down on 28 February in the middle of "bank run" and they didn't. We signed the agreement of 20 February which, it seems, ladies and gentlemen, was not so treacherous and it was not so much a 'columb', because if that were the case, they would not try to change it at the worst, they would not try to bring the mail back to Hardouveli, with the dilemma 'or accepting or ending financing', and after the firm attitude of the Greek Government to enter into a debate again. If the "tubba" that SYRIZA made was so great, it would not have called Mr Tsipras on her own initiative, Mrs Merkel, who slowly understands that she has a government that does not look like the previous ones who ruled through the translated mail that was accepted to the ministries and the humiliated ones who were throwing at the ministers the technocrats who came to do the check. That is the first point, and I think we should keep it for the follow-up. The second point I want to make is the part concerning the fight against corruption. In municipalities there are thirteen degrees of control. In the end, no one controls anything. We work between us. We send papers, these audit authorities send us papers and go by saying. No one controls what we do at the end, the substance of the project, but they check the dates on which we have made the various decisions. It really needs a start, what this bill does. The control mechanism against corruption must be concentrated on a mechanism which has the political responsibility of coordinating all the institutions involved in this story. I'll get an example from the hospitals. Here's Mr. Blonde and he knows it. In 1996-2004 it was the period of semantic modernisation where it became a law of movement of our society of black money. At that time, all this logic of the gloomy economy we have been paying up to now and some have done good work. There is a situation in which health material produced in Southeast Asia with 50 euros is exported with 300 euros from the parent plant, enters Cyprus with 1,300 euros, comes out with 2,500 euros and comes to our country here at this price. And depending on the intermediate dealers, insurance funds may pay up to 6,000 euros for a material produced at 50 euros cost. This thing, who's gonna catch it? The prosecutor, the commissioner, the hospital administration, the Ministry of Health Mechanism? Who's gonna catch it? No one gets it right now. Everyone says that if you have any evidence, you can take them to the D.A. and no one gets it. It takes a mechanism, which is now, to catch, to account for it, to put in the hands of those who have eaten it and to regulate in cooperation with the Ministries, the new institutional system of central invoicing and not the central purchasing system, with all this party which has been held so far and which continues to take place even nowadays, despite the horizontal cuts made by the previous ministers which may have cut it down horizontally, but this mechanism has not affected it at all, despite the 'Digitals', despite everything. An old self-government from Chania said to me: "My child Palis, this thing that has made with the claritys, with the control mechanisms, is why they have built a castle around - around and inside they eat and the castle has made it so that no one else can enter." That thing we're living today. Well, that castle we with this thing will break it. We will break it and start building another society at the level of justice and equality, which will fight and correct this disaster that you have done and we will start where we can. That's all they left. It's a message. That's what we're starting with. With blood and pain, we find this money to start. We'll find more when the deal's over. That's why we're going to walk him this way, and we're going to win, both in the negotiation and in the reduction of debt and everything. I'll have another word. I do not understand how you say that the government's debts will be increased or the government's function when the Minister proves you with evidence that from the thousand hundred and fifty associates you had will have five hundred? How can this thing be done, that we will increase the government's operating costs? To finish, I am struck by a speech by Members of the Greek Parliament - and I am referring to the Potami - who said that they do not vote for this bill. For the first time after five years a government takes a series of measures to relieve popular strata. You don't like it? Do you think it's a one-sided action, as Mrs Marcus said? Aren't you ashamed to say these things? So who are you taking orders from, and you say that thing? It is shameful for Members of the Greek Parliament to say that the bill brought by the government to deal with the humanitarian crisis after five years of throwing the poor in Caucasus, is a Denktash facing the European Union. To finish, as a mandarin says "the government does not beg. It also has oranges elsewhere and comes out oranges." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u627	Thank you, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u628	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u629	Mrs. Libertyraki, are you asking for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u630	Wait a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u631	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u632	Thank you very much, Madam President. I just wanted to say that I understand that there is passion and fatigue, but under no circumstances should we swell and consider that anyone who disagrees with something that we consider to be right, give him foreign orders and that it has anti-national action. We are therefore making a criticism of the more effective policy on poverty, and I think it is unfair, and I do not want to go any further, because I think it was at the edge of Mr Polakis' speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u633	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. The last speaker is Mrs Antoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u634	Could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u635	Mr. Kegeroglu, would you like to be seconded for two minutes? I'll give you the opportunity. Wait a minute, Mrs. Anthony. The last speaker is Mrs Antoniou. If I look at the Chamber, I see that all the next speakers either make sense that they are resigning or not here. If, however, there is a speaker who thinks that he has not been covered, he does not want to resign and would like to take the floor, let him say so that Mrs Antony's speech is overdue. He'll be given the opportunity for two minutes. Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u636	Thank you, Madam President. The reason why I 'was ignited' is that I have also asked for the floor in the programme statements - I was written on number 36, I was in number 90 - and I could not speak yesterday afternoon in the debate at first. Today, at noon, I was rewritten in the debate on the articles and it reached 1.30 seconds so that we could be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u637	It's all good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u638	Thank you. Finally, good, as my colleague says. Ladies and gentlemen, we all here today - and to speak truths among ourselves - understand that the bill we are discussing has nothing to do with the title. I hear colleagues say about the humanitarian crisis. Most articles in the bill, out of forty-five articles forty-two do not address the humanitarian crisis. They are rather faced with the crisis of SYRIZA officials who are ready to charge to the state. For the truth, at 0.30', we were shared by legislative improvement that also provides for Deputy Secretarys-General position of administrative officer and advisor. Therefore, for our fellow citizens who are in extreme poverty there are only three ambiguities - I do not know whether they are creative or not - articles without conditions and conditions and these will also be adopted - when, though - the relevant ministerial decisions. Let me be clearer: the bill is costing 100 million euros. Twenty of these are intended for free current, forty million euros are reserved for rent subsidies and a hundred forty million euros for free feeding. With simple mathematics, if we divide the hundreds of forty millions to about ten months by the end of 2015, then we will have fourteen million euros for every month for food. If we then divide this amount with the three hundred thousand beneficiaries, which the government said, we get the astronomical sum of EUR 46,6 per person per month, that is about EUR one and a half per day for food. The government, in wanting to leave a good taste for the bill, has silently removed the number of three hundred thousand and, without a problem, the amount available at around three euros a day from free feeding, we now say that they will eventually benefit - if they will benefit - about a hundred and fifty thousand people. At the same time, of course, increases in PPC employees exceed six euros a day. Finally, Mr Minister of Finance, since you have money, why are you not finally paying the heating allowance, the second instalment? Because I come from an area of Kastoria, which today had zero degrees Celsius. You accused us of analgesia when we voted, and now you're withholding the money. For the first time, we have such mathematics as the left. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll let me finish, Madam President. But let's see the truth. This draft law on substance is rather the tombstone of the punctual memory program of Thessaloniki. The great lie he gave air to SYRIZA's election sails today turns out to be a fanatical one, a programme that was talking about two billion euros and today ended up in two hundred million - and even when it is. The first fifty days of the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état finally break down a key election argument for SYRIZA and the Prime Minister, according to which the SYRIZA's programme to deal with the humanitarian crisis and the measure to support the low social strata would be implemented independently of the debt negotiations and with an agreement with partners. The Prime Minister, of course, attempts to look reassuring, that the government is not taking a step backwards. However, through his interview with "NATIONS": it makes it clear that in practice the election programme of SYRIZA enters the fridge until further notice, mentioning a four-year programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The reasoning is simple. Since the money trick worked both in '09 and '15, why wouldn't it keep working? After all - almost the same people have applied it and now But the bill also has other usefulness. The government uses it to escalate tension with partners. I think you are all aware, ladies and gentlemen, that SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence is going to be 'all foreigners' phase, a communication game of impression, which unfortunately has an end date for you. In any case, however, these assumptions made by the Prime Minister himself confirm the bankruptcy of his strategy and put the tough and aggressive negotiation in the basket, through which the creditors and creditors of the country would change their attitude and allow SYRIZA to implement his policy. But are you not the ones who signed on 20 February that you will not proceed to unilateral actions before the final agreement? If you disagreed, you wouldn't sign. Unless Mr. Varoufakis' signature does not bind the entire government. In any case, you signed an agreement that you are hiding from the House, which the partners mention as an agreement to continue the memorandum without having to give money. And you as proud negotiators begg for five-day meetings. Finally, you say you managed to present a new program written by your own hands. At last, write it down and deposit it. So because you don't want to do, from what I understand, Kuggy your parties, you don't have the right to blow the country off. Because until you decide what you're going to do with the country, it will be ruled by the anti-powered lawmakers, burning Athens - and the police are watching - and demanding the release of the terrorists. And judging by the bill submitted by the Ministry of Justice, they're probably doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u639	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. You spoke seven minutes and twenty-two seconds. You have no complaint, Mrs. Antoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u640	For protology and dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u641	She was the last speaker. I see that there is no speaker from those who have not spoken and who have not been covered. Right? Does the rapporteurs want to give a second answer? Do you want to, Mr. Panayotopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u642	I would like the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u643	Mr. Kegeroglu also said a second. Mr. Zacharias quits. Thank you, Mr. Zacharia. Mrs. Liberaki also resigns. I see no other rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u644	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u645	I see Mr Theocharis asking for the floor. Mr. Theochari, yesterday's suggestions have gone not just for a walk, but for a long journey, reversed. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Panayotopoulos and Mr Theocharis. Then we will close the way I told you to be all the Members of Parliament, because the vote will take place. The vote shall be taken at the moment and the majority shall be disagreed by the Bureau. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u646	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say a few words about all the colleagues who have made the opposition, while they are the majority in the opposition. We were also criticised, because we criticised the bill, because we made proposals, because we developed a dialogue. Listen, Parliament's area is the most important area for dialogue, speech and counterparts, proposals and criticism. You don't understand, we won't be buffoons here. Furthermore, if we did what you did, which you have done against the opposition without any suggestions, but only an indirect criticism of the government, that it is not what we would like but, in any case, we hope that it will be better next, there would be no improvement in the articles. We have tabled concrete proposals, improvements. They were integrated and this is the creative work that can be done when there is a common framework. So limit a little the negative words you have said. They are justified, it is the first phase, especially by young Members. Indeed, the reasons for some were themselves, they had been written by the same scientific associates as it seems. Perhaps you should think of the six hundred scientific associates that Parliament hires three hundred to take 'yes' and that money should go to deal with poverty. Six hundred to be three hundred. In addition, we have waited for an amendment, ladies and gentlemen, to link the product to the treatment of the economic crime of corruption to the treatment of poverty and to say that that is where the money is going. The previous government did it. He had an account opened, and you have to. In the last few years, 31 million had been there for that purpose. I conclude with the amendment to NERIT. Fourteen amendments have been tabled. Usually the phenomenon of the many amendments made by previous governments, in previous periods, was in the last bills. This is where you start the first fourteen. What's going on? It was in the last few days. You remember before Christmas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The amendment to NERITT is not only urgent, not only is it not relevant, but it is the epic of the deletion of the scheduling declarations and of the government and the President of Parliament, that irrelevant amendments, unconnected, nights, will not come with Mrs Konstantopoulou's presidency. I think you should withdraw it. This amendment cannot be voted on, at least it is not voted on by us. And, in any case, you are blatantly violating what you have said. I am not that strict on the amendments, you have laid the rules. Do not now transfer the responsibility to the Members, or say that these are not the case, which you said on the first day. Say it. I am not strict, I have made many amendments that were not relevant, but were necessary and in agreement they went through. I am of this opinion personally, when it is necessary. You wanted the customs and customs that say that there should be no amendments. In closing this intervention, and because we will be placed on what we are voting on and who we do not, I suppose, vote on from the articles, I would say that we cannot today, there is no possibility of monitoring. If that is the concept of voting in the whole of the day, we propose that the whole vote be taken on Friday. Today we are voting on the articles. Why change this class that applies? If there's an emergency, yes, but the government can explain it to us. If there's an urgent need for this bill, you can explain it to us and we'll accept it. However, the class says that Friday should go for a vote on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u647	However, I would like to tell you that what you said would be a good thing to put it next to your lunch picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u648	Leave at noon, so we don't talk about your lunch picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u649	From there on, I understand that you object to the ERT amendment and you object to the vote procedure as a whole. If you object to this amendment, I would ask the House to give its opinion, as is the case at other times, because the objector was not heard, because he had a microphone, and not as he did, and not at other times, that there were amendments which had not been tabled by the ministers either. Will the House state whether it approves the vote on the amendment, the procedure for voting on the amendments, on the objection of the Minister of State responsible for Radiovision? Those who approve the procedure, vote on the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u650	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u651	Does a Minister want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u652	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u653	Mr. Brutsi, we're voting on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u654	Madam President, can I interrupt for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u655	Of course, speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u656	Madam President, I raised my hand, because things should not go through like this. Mr Kegeroglu said it was the first bill and he has many amendments. In my opinion it should have more than first bills from the other governments. Mr Kegeroglu says he does not understand that the previous governments were the continuation of each other in their politics and in their legislative work. Today we come to change and look forward to changing a lot of things or everything. And that is why we have had to - and this has emerged from the two-day debate - on a number of issues and with a lot of widening, I would say, far beyond what is relevant - and I recognise it as a matter of urgency to bring the policy of this government to work. That's the first. Secondly, on the whole vote, Mr Kegeroglu, I think you understood that there were articles and additions and amendments that were urgent and should have been voted on before 12 noon. So do not test limits in response to this issue. They are overly urgent, the bill as a whole needs to be passed today. And all the measures - from what I understand - have been taken by the President - in this matter, I absolutely agree with the procedures that have been followed - so that we are all aware of voting. And you should respect that almost all of the majority party's parliamentary group is present to listen with religious devotion to the four New Democracy MPs, the two PASOKs, etc., at two o'clock this morning. Let's move on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u657	Well, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u658	Madam President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u659	Mr. Kegeroglu, it's not an answer - a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u660	Mr. Voutsi has taken the floor and answered and I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u661	Yes, we'll vote on your objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u662	I'd like to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u663	The vote will take place on the objection, but please open up the microphone. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u664	I asked, and it was quite right to speak, Mr Voutsis to justify the urgency of the vote on the whole. And I said, if there's any reason for the government to explain it and accept it. That's what I said, I think. And he took the floor and explained it. So, if there is a reason for that, it will be voted on. I have told you about the amendments that I am not in favour of the strict principles that look like prudence. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You said that as a new Bureau and as a previous opposition, that no unnecessary amendments should be voted on. You said that. You denounced the previous governments, I didn't report them. Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise in the Chamber]] It's okay, it's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u665	Well, Mr. Kegeroglu, sit down. So there will now be a vote on the objection raised by Mr Kegeroglu in relation to her amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u666	He withdrew her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u667	Did you withdraw it for ERT, Mr. Kegeroglu? For the ERT, did you withdraw it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u669	I understand you say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u670	No, I didn't withdrew her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u671	No, you didn't withdraw it. So let the Bureau, which sees from here, my good colleagues and fellow Members, make the procedure, because Parliament must also be shielded and the procedures must be shielded. A single amendment was objected to. Didn't I get it? So for this amendment, I put it in this House, which will vote on the matter at the moment. Those who judge and vote that the amendment should be put to the vote, please rise and those who consider that they should not, should remain in their position. Who are voting to enter the voting process, in other words rejecting Mr Kegeroglu's objection? Please rise. [[Members accept that the amendment should be put to the vote.]] Please, let the camera show the picture. They're also ministers who are MPs. It is therefore clear that most have been raised and it is clear that by a vast majority this House has considered that this amendment should be put to the vote. The new Republic's rapporteur, Mr Panayotopoulos, has asked for the floor for two minutes. You will also tell us if you have any objections and we will then proceed to the vote on one of the articles and the amendments. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u672	Thank you, Madam President. I also intended to object to the same amendment, but once the matter has been resolved by way of a preliminary ruling, I do not think it has any substance to go any further. However, I would like the post of Officer Opposition to be recorded on the matter. I would also like to say that we, too, have a negative attitude to this amendment, because we consider it totally inconsistent and inconsistent with the draft legislation being passed. We believe that he could come as part of the body of the relevant NERIT bill within a few days. We also believe that the abolition of the NERITS Supervisory Board to us is unacceptable, because it is simply now subject to absolute political scrutiny by all staff recruitment procedures. That is what this amendment is all about. From there on, I would like to express the position of Officer Opposition on the bill. The time will come for the articles to be voted on. We are voting against all the articles in the first part of the bill and we are voting against all the articles in the second part, for reasons that we have explained very extensively for over a week. We are voting in favour of the articles in Part Three. As regards the amendments, first of all, I think I have to make a reservation, because they are ministerial amendments without costing, and that is what I have described. Unfortunately, I think I have been a little prophetic here since last Friday that such shortcomings in specific costing will result in a problem with the evaluators present. We have every good intention to vote in favour of any amendment relating to the settlement of administrative outstandings and that is what we will do. Therefore, we will see them one, but in advance we will clarify our position. We have every good intention to vote on any amendment extending the benefits grid to vulnerable social groups. One of these is the extension of the health care field to other categories of workers, despite the fact that this has not been costed. There has been talk of 40 million additional costs. I think that these 40 million can be found next to 200 million, with which the mesh of the measures has been costed. From there on, however, I also pointed out the danger. Finally, I will also make a negative stand on Amendment No 15 by the Ministry of Finance on the payment of tax debts. We do not believe in the creation of short-term windows to cover the short-term revenue shortfall, and even one day before the relevant regulation bill comes. As far as the rest of the two parties are concerned with the performance of the financial resources of the CFSF and the financial resources of the insurance funds are concerned, I am very afraid that this is under great budgetary pressure. Let us not go into the debate on the causes and causes and simply say that we are voting against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u673	Thank you, Mr. Panayotopoulos. You have no objection to any other amendment, apart from that which has already been voted on. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u674	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u675	And for the whole, you don't object, like PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u676	We believe that as the process of voting the bill as a whole is under way, it is not right at the moment to raise any objections. The procedure will go ahead. It's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u677	Thank you. The floor has been requested by Mr Theocharis, Parliamentary Representative of the Parliamentary Group. Mr. Theochari, is your editorial, your weekbook? How long do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u678	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u679	I'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u680	You comment when I finish my speech, now you're commenting on me before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u681	Well, now the day's changed, so we're changing the process a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u682	However, in any case there is no MEP who is to speak after me and therefore this speech does not deprive a Member of his right to speak and speak to a Member of Parliament. We will also say a few words in relation to some of these amendments, in order to clarify our position. With regard to the amendment to general number 5, accepted by the Minister, this has a significant financial effect. It is costly and because it passed as a parliamentary - we wonder if that was the reason - it does not have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. We believe that it should not be voted on, because it has budgetary costs and if it really needs to come back, it should come back as a ministerial amendment to the next bill and see the cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u683	Mr. Theochari, what amendment are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u684	It's number 5, as I said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u685	Is she a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u686	It is a parliamentary amendment, and that is why it does not have a report from the General Accounting Office. We think there's a considerable cost. It is for the equalisation of pay, and these employees should not pay back the money they had paid. This cost is important and the House does not see it. This amendment goes through without knowing its cost, even though the Minister explicitly said that we have no cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u687	There's no cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u688	He thinks they're right to take it. He's not retroactively asking for the money. But the order says so. Read it. Money which the General Accounting Office currently requests from workers as being wrongly paid, this amendment legalises them and will therefore not be demanded back. It's obvious that it's costing. We can't pretend it's costless. To come in costly and vote for it. We don't have a problem. That's what we're saying. As regards the amendment to NERIT, we welcome the Minister's commitment to the fact that there will be transparent and consensual procedures in the choice of persons. It is not right, of course, that this should not be guaranteed. You will have to see that it is institutionalised. We have not voted in favour of this amendment being passed in the bill in the sense that it is definitely irrelevant to this bill and that a new bill should be part of this bill. However, we will say 'the present', instead of voting against it, and we hope that the Minister will be able to meet the commitments he made in front of the Greek Parliament. Finally, on 15 February we were not convinced by the Minister that it is a matter of urgency for two days. Let's take these seven days and instead of the end of it on March 27th, it was March 29th. We were not convinced why these two days could not be done in the urgent bill. We therefore object to the fact that this amendment should be voted on. He hasn't convinced us that it's urgent. However, in the case where it comes into the bill - even if there are no such limits for which I have spoken, and they should have gone in poorly, the government has not listened to us - in so far as it relieves some who are in a real weakness of non-payment, we will vote here as well. For the other amendments, you will see what we will do in the vote. I don't think it matters very much. I don't want to take any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u689	Mr. Theocharis, you have raised an objection to the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u690	Question No 5, by Mr Ephremidis
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u691	Wait a minute, to clarify and follow the procedure. You have raised an objection to the parliamentary amendment accepted by the Minister, entitled 'Simplification of wages for workers in Dependent Prevention Centres in the context of normalisation of the operation of structures'. This is an amendment in which, in its explanatory statement, urgent uncertainties, ambiguities and problems with the wage system of workers at the Centres for the Prevention of Dependents and Promotion of Psychosocial Health, arising from the institutional system of operation of these structures, are settled, in conjunction with the political decisions of the Ministry of Health's previous leaders on their inclusion in the provisions of the n. No 4024/2011 on a single public wage. The seventy-five Centres for the Prevention of Reliances and Promotion of Psychosocial Health operate as sixty-seven non-profit companies, each bilaterally party to the OKANA, supported by 50% by the Ministry of Health - through the OECD - and 50% by the Ministry of Interior through the "EUTA S.A." and following a decision/proposal by the CEDEFOP. In this amendment, therefore, it is said that it is urgent to regulate that all staff from prevention centres - and we are talking about personnel from Dependent Prevention Centres - will be paid for legal certainty in accordance with the provisions of the n. Regulation (EC) No 4024/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2011 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 4024/2011 and Regulation (EC) No 4024/2011, and without any retroactive detention. And the content of the amendment says: 'Workers in the Psychosocial Health Prevention and Promotion Centres are subject to the provisions of the Law. Regulation (EU) No 4024/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2011 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of that provision and for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC) No 4024/2011 laying down remuneration for the publication of this Regulation and for the joint decision of the Ministers for Health and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction They shall not seek as unduly paid the amounts paid as salary benefits, allowances, allowances to workers in the prevention centres under collective labour agreements, decisions of the administrative boards of prevention centres, individual contracts of employment up to the vote of the present, and any allocations already made shall be withdrawn from the publication of this. The Prevention Centres shall be supervised by the Ministry of Health.’ It is signed by several SYRIZA MPs. You object to the fact that it has not been passed through the General Accounting Office of the State and, at your position, there should be this standard condition. It's a sensitive matter. It's about workers. We have made it clear what it is about, because nothing is going to let go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u692	Madam President, in order to avoid misunderstanding, it is not our objection to the substance, in the sense that we are not against - possibly - the workers. We simply believe that we should also see the cost, so that we can make a proper decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u693	Let the attending minister explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u694	Deal. And I could tell you that we could see the cost and regardless of the cost of deciding it, because we need, as it turns out, to decide. I would ask Mr Zacharias, who is also a signatory of the SYRIZA amendment and rapporteur, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u695	Madam President, reading the rapporteur's report - in the next paragraph, because you have not read all the paragraphs, it is also a great report - you would find that the staff of prevention centres have been categorised in recent years by wage changes. It is owned and financed by two different Ministries, by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health by 50% and 50% respectively, and because the municipalities in the meantime intervene in the seventy-five different prevention centres, such as the regime to date, were discussed four times during the previous parliamentary term, with interventions by SYRIZA and other parties in the Parliament, their wage issue. So the headship of the Ministry of Health, in December 2014, tried to regulate the issue, because they entered a matching of the single wage for these people and, of course, asked retroactively for reservations. However, not all of these were included in the seventy-five centres at the same time, but at different levels, and this created a terrible inequality in their relations with their salaries towards the single wage. So, with this amendment at least today, from the vote, we are trying to make a new start. That is why we are not looking for and wrongly paid. It is a number of amounts, sometimes very large, exterminational, that is, because the payment of uniform fees began from 1-1-2014. That is why it is proposed that the regulation should be introduced at different times in the various centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u696	Thank you, Mr. Zacharia. Does the Minister want to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u697	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u698	Listen, we'll put it in this House. I will tell you this: there is a typical issue, there is a substantial one. There is one case, if this report is needed, that we should be asked to vote again on the amendment. In any case, I will put it to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u699	There's no formal matter. The Minister is entitled to request a report on parliamentary amendments. But because he is the Minister of Finance here, he should tell us about the substance and not about the procedure. There's no matter. We vote on it anyway. I call it in advance. But the Minister of Finance is here, which concerns him. Mrs. Fotio cannot be placed on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u700	Minister, do you want to say something about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u701	The General Accounting Office of the State has informed us that in the context of the normalisation of all these arrangements there will be no financial effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u702	Thank you. So, Mr. Theochari, do you insist on the objection? Should we put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u703	No, he doesn't have to vote. What can I tell you? Since the Minister for Finance accepts that there is no financial effect that is wrongly paid which will not be sought, I cannot say any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u704	As your statement is ambiguous, I will put it to the vote. Those who believe that this amendment should enter the voting process should be brought up. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The vote will take place at 12 noon.]] Apparently, most of them were raised. The objection is therefore rejected. Now, from what I understand - if there is any objection, please make it - there is no objection that has not been put to the vote and there is no objection that has not been put to the vote in relation to the validity of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u705	Normally, too, the doses should go to the bill tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u706	I mean, in relation to the validity of the procedure. Mr Gregos from Golden Dawn and Mrs Manolakou from the Communist Party have yet to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u707	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u708	Come on, Mr. Theochari, in your eighth speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u709	No, tenth! In my speech I just said that, as far as the amendment on instalments is concerned, we were not convinced that this amendment is so urgent that it should be debated and voted on today and cannot go to the debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u710	What amendment, other amendment or this amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u711	Amendment No 15, for instalments, regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u712	Is that an objection?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u714	We shall therefore put it to the vote. For regulation, those who believe that they must enter the voting process must rise. [[Admitted to enter the voting procedure]] It's obvious that most of them were raised. The regulation will therefore enter the voting process. Mr Gregos and Mrs Manolakou now have the floor and we're closing. I think there is no longer any objection, unless the two rapporteurs or the parliamentary representative and the rapporteur object now. Then we shall close with the vote, which is currently in place. Mr. Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u715	With regard to Amendment No 4/4, we simply want to express our protest - and I ask you to bring the relevant Minister back to order - that the Minister responsible does not answer the questions of Golden Dawn. It is about what I say about Amendment No 4/4. It does not specify who is the ones who are temporarily staying at the centres that have been authorised and which the Minister responsible does not give us any explanation. On the amendments I shall refer to during the vote. I just wanted to point out this now, during this process. You understand that it is also undemocratic and offends us as a party, and we and our voters. I support Amendment No 4/4 because it concerns the relevant Minister for Migration Policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u716	Amendment 4/4 concerns the feeding of third-country nationals who remain temporarily in the Pre-Accession Centres for Immigration, established and operating in the Greek Police, and is signed by the Minister of Finance Mr Varoufakis, the Minister of Home Affairs Mr Voutsi, the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr Ioannis Panoussis and the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity Mr Panagiotis Skourletis. Everyone is committed to responding to parliamentary scrutiny. I do not see, therefore, any question as to what you have raised. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u717	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to explain our vote on the amendments which I have not had time to make into my protagonists. As far as Amendment No 4/4 is concerned, although it reproduces detention centres, we will nevertheless vote for it because it concerns feeding third-country nationals and is necessary. As far as the 16/16 and 24/24 amendments are concerned, we have analysed that we are voting on them. With regard to Amendment No 23/23, which is a parliamentary amendment concerning the Sicily Foundation, we are voting for it, but with the observation that it should, in order to facilitate its operation, be integrated into and financed by the State. We are voting against Amendment No 10 because we disagree with programmes of a mutual nature, as they are said, because they recycle unemployment, abolish collective agreements, differentiate pay for equal work or equal work. We are voting against Amendment 15. You're moving on to internal lending from employees' money to pay off creditors. You assure that they will be available when needed by the institutions. However, there is no such mechanism as to ensure availability. This translates into possible delays, which have already made their appearance and there is no assurance that they will not work, as has happened in the past. We are voting against Amendment 17, extension of a law on public works, supplies and services contracts. After all, we had voted against the law. In the other amendments we are expressing ourselves with 'the present'. I would just like to say about NERITT, because it has been said enough, that this amendment attempts to speed up the process of re-entry of workers through the new regime for the operation of public television. We want a rapid transition to ensure the reintegration of workers. However, the draft law which has been announced has many problems and many questions that the reintegration and labour regime of workers is not guaranteed by the new operation. In this sense we cannot vote for it and express ourselves with 'the present'. Finally, I regret that you have not taken into account amendments tabled by the JRC. They would alleviate a very poor world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u718	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The debate has been concluded, but on the basis of this last point I would like to urge the government, because it is important that the Members' role is also considered by the Parliamentary amendments of all the wings, and to give an example of the fact that the government can adopt parliamentary amendments which do not come from the parties supporting it, that is to say break another bad example which has existed since previous times. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that five meetings of the committees and three plenary sessions have taken place in the first bill of the plenary part-session. The first bill of 2012 respectively had a committee meeting and a plenary session. Two Ministers spoke to the Committee in 2012, in 2015 eight Ministers. In 2012, two rapporteurs spoke to the committee, as in 2015. In 2012 five special speakers spoke, as in 2015. In 2012, 15 speakers spoke in the committee, in 2015, forty-five speakers. At the beginning of 2012 in plenary, 20 speakers spoke in 2015, seventeen speakers. In 2012 two Parliamentary Representatives spoke in 2015, five Parliamentary Representatives. In 2012 two rapporteurs and four special speakers spoke, two rapporteurs and five special speakers in 2015. In 2012 two Ministers spoke, seven Ministers in 2015. On the articles and amendments, in 2012, twelve speakers spoke, in 2015 thirty-two speakers. In 2012, six Parliamentary Representatives spoke in 2015, too, six. In 2012, two rapporteurs spoke, in 2015 two. In 2012 two Special Buyers spoke, in 2015 five Special Buyers. In 2012 one Minister spoke, seven ministers in 2015. These are, to have a full picture of what progress we are making. We still have a course, but I think that, if anything, longer time is given to everyone. The debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law is adjourned: 'Requirements for immediate measures to address the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and the Governmental Institutions and other provisions', and will be voted on separately, an article on the subject. I would ask those present Members who vote 'yes' to say so clearly, those who vote 'no' clearly and those who vote 'no' to say so clearly. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u719	Article 1 has therefore been accepted as amended by the Minister, acting unanimously. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u720	Article 2 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister, acting unanimously. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u721	Article 3 has therefore been accepted as amended by the Minister, acting unanimously. Can Article 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u722	Article 4 has therefore been accepted as amended by the Minister, acting unanimously. Can Article 5, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u723	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u725	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u726	Article 5 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority of Members of the Golden Dawn, River and the JRC. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u727	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u728	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u729	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u730	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u731	Article 6 therefore has been accepted as having a majority minority minority of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the River and the JRC. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u733	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u734	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u735	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u736	Article 7 was therefore accepted as having a majority minority vote by the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the River and the JRC. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u737	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u738	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u739	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u740	Article 8 therefore has been accepted as having a majority minority minority of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn and the JRC. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u741	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u743	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u744	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u745	Article 9 therefore has been accepted as having a majority minority minority of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the River and the JRC. Will Rule 10 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u747	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u748	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u749	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u750	Article 10 has therefore been accepted by a majority of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the River and the JRC. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u751	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u752	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u753	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u754	Article 11 therefore has been accepted as having a majority minority minority of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn and the JRC. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u755	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u756	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u757	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u758	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u759	Article 12 therefore has been accepted as having a majority minority minority of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the River and the JRC. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u760	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u761	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u762	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u763	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u764	Article 13 therefore has been accepted as having a majority minority minority of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the River and the JRC. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u765	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u766	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u767	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u768	Article 14 therefore has been accepted as having a majority minority minority of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn and the JRC. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u772	Article 15 therefore has been accepted as having a majority minority minority of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn and the JRC. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u774	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u775	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u776	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u778	Article 16 therefore has been accepted as having a majority minority vote by the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the Potamian who vote 'NOV' and the JRC and the PASOK who declare 'PARON'. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u779	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u781	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u782	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u783	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u784	Article 17 has therefore been accepted as having a majority vote by minority voters of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the River and the PASOK who are voting for 'HOI' and the JRC which declares 'PARA'. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u785	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u786	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u787	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u789	Article 18 therefore has been accepted as having a majority vote by minority voters of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn who vote "HO" and the JRC and PASOK who declare "PARS". Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u790	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u791	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u792	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u793	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u794	Article 19 therefore has been accepted as having a majority vote by minority voters of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the PASOK, who vote "NOV" and the JRC who declares "PARS". Will Rule 20 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u795	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u796	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u798	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u799	Article 20 has therefore been accepted by a majority, minority voters of the Members of the New Democracy, the Golden Dawn, the PASOK, who are voting for 'THE' and the JRC who declares 'ARTS'. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u800	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u801	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u802	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u804	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u805	Therefore, Article 21 was accepted as it is by a majority, by minority voters of the New Democracy MP who vote for 'OH', by the Members of the Golden Dawn who vote 'OH', by the members of the Pollution Party who vote 'OHS', by the JRC MPs who declare 'OH' and by the PASOK MP who votes 'OH'. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u806	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u807	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u808	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u810	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u811	Therefore, Article 22 was accepted as it is by a majority, minority voters of the New Democracy MP who vote for 'OH', of the Members of the Golden Dawn who vote 'OH', of the Pollution MPs who vote 'OHS', of the JRC MPs who declare 'POS' and of the PASOK MP who votes 'OH'. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u812	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u815	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u816	Article 23 therefore has been accepted as it is by a majority, by minority voters of the New Democracy MP who vote for 'OH', by the Members of the Golden Dawn who vote 'OH, by the JRC Members who declare 'POS' and by the PASOK MP who votes 'OH'. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u817	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u818	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u819	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u821	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u822	Therefore, Article 24 has been accepted, as amended by the Minister of State by a majority, by minority voters of the New Democracy MP who votes for 'OH', by the Members of the Golden Dawn who vote 'OHS', by the members of the Potamian who vote 'OHS', by the JRC MPs who declare 'OHS' and by the PASOK MP who votes 'OH'. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u823	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u824	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u826	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u827	Therefore, Article 25 was accepted as it is by a majority, minority voters of the New Democracy MP who vote for 'OH', members of the Golden Dawn vote 'OH', members of the JRC declaring 'PAC Members' and PASOK MP who vote 'OH'. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u828	Proceedings of the Court of First Instance
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u829	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u830	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u833	Therefore, Article 26 was accepted as it is by a majority, minority voters of the New Democracy MP who vote for 'OH', of the Members of the Golden Dawn who vote 'OH', of the members of the river who vote 'OHS', of the JRC MPs who declare 'APPEN' and of the PASOK MP who votes 'OH'. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u834	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u836	Therefore, Article 27 was accepted as it is by a majority, minority voters of the Members of the Golden Dawn who vote for 'OHS' and the members of the JRC who declare 'PARS'. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u837	Proceedings of the Court of First Instance
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u840	Article 28 therefore has been accepted as it is by a majority, minority voters of the New Democracy MP who votes for 'OH', members of the Golden Dawn who vote 'OHS' and members of the JRC who declare 'POS'. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u842	Article 29, therefore, was accepted as it stands by a majority of the members of the JRC who declare themselves to be ‘PARS’. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u843	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u844	So Article 30, as amended by the Minister of State, by a majority, was accepted by the members of the JRC who vote 'OH'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u845	We are voting against Article 30, but we are saying 'NO'. We are voting for Amendment No 16.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u846	We will discuss the amendments separately. Does the way in which we voted contain the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u847	It is incorporated, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u848	No, we'll vote for it, though. What's your vote on the article?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u849	It is 'OR'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u850	You will vote later on the amendment. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u851	Minorities are beginning to be bent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u852	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u853	Why, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u854	I'm sorry, the amendment is embedded in the article, so we have to say the article...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u855	The amendment has not been voted on. Then, if a point of order is raised, here we are. Neither the Bureau is leaving nor you are leaving. If you're still here... Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u856	Article 31 has therefore been unanimously accepted as such. Now we are going to vote on the amendments and I would ask you to vote very clearly. You have the amendments before you one by one. This is a change in relation to previous votes. The old colleagues will appreciate it. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 4 and a special number 4 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u857	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u858	I would point out that we are entering the essence of the amendments, given that there has been a procedure and a vote beforehand on the procedure and objections. Therefore, the amendment by a general number 4 and a special 4 was accepted by a majority, with a minority of the Golden Dawn vote 'OH'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u859	You have to say that it is incorporated as Article 32...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u860	Then, Mr. Kegeroglu, don't rush. Is there another minority?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u861	It can't be done. Two votes will take place?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u862	Are you voting for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u863	I am voting, and I am saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u864	Minorities I'm recording.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u865	But you're not doing this right. You should say it right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u866	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 4 and a special 4 was accepted by a majority, with a minority vote on the Golden Dawn, and is part of the bill as an article itself. We do not vote for this, we simply record that it is part of the bill. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 14 and a special number 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u867	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u870	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u871	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 14, and a special 14, was accepted by a majority, with a minority of the Golden Dawn and the River, which are voting 'OHS', the JRC and the PASOK, which state 'PARS'. This amendment is part of the bill as a separate article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 15 and a special number 15, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u872	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u873	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u875	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u876	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 15, and a special 15, was accepted by a majority vote by a majority of the New Democracy MEP who votes for 'OH', of the Members of the Golden Dawn who declare 'PARS', of the members of the river saying 'PARS', of the members of the JRC who vote 'OH'...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u877	Madam President, as the amendment is made up of separate articles...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u878	Are these separate articles? Can we have them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u879	We are voting for the first paragraph and the second and we are saying 'NOV' in the third.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u880	If that's the case, we can fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u881	Wait a minute. This is because it is a pathogen that we have lived through, we have no reason to allow a separate statement. Where consensus can be reached, it will be achieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u882	But they're separate articles too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u883	These are, therefore, three articles which have been incorporated into the bill as Article 34, 35 and 36. So let us give a separate statement. Do you agree, Minister? On the other hand, we asked for it to be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u884	If you think so, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u885	Does this House accept the first paragraph of the amendment, Rule 34?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u887	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u888	Consequently, the first paragraph, Article 34, was accepted by a majority, by a minority of the river declared ‘PARS’ and by the New Democracy which votes ‘NOV’. Does this House accept the second paragraph of the amendment which has now been incorporated as Article 35?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u889	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u890	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u891	The second paragraph of the amendment, which has now been incorporated as an article, has therefore been accepted by a majority, with a minority vote by the Communist Party of Greece, which votes for "OH" and for the New Democracy that votes for "OH". Does the House agree that paragraph 3 of the amendment is accepted under a general number 15 and that is incorporated as Article 36 of the draft law?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u892	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u893	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u894	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u895	Therefore, the third paragraph of the amendment was accepted by a majority, by minority voters of the New Democracy MEP who votes 'OH', by PASOK MP who votes 'OH' and by the Members of the Communist Party of Greece who vote 'OH'. I don't think there's any complaints. All of them have been put in place to enable the House to vote on them. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 16 and a number 16 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u896	Therefore, as I understand it, Amendment No 16, and number 16, is accepted unanimously and is part of Article 30 of the draft law. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 17 and a special number 17 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u897	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u898	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u899	The amendment of a general number 17 and a special number 17 were therefore accepted by a majority, minority voters of the Members of the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 18 and a special number 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u900	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u901	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u904	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u905	Therefore, Amendment No 18, and a special number 18, was accepted by a majority, minority voters of the New Democracy MP who vote for 'NOH', the Members of the Golden Dawn who vote for 'NOH', the members of the Potamos who declare 'PARS', the MPs of the Communist Party of Greece who declare 'PARS' and the MP of PASOK who vote 'OH' and are part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 24 and a special number 24, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u907	The amendment, by a general number 24, and a special number 24, was therefore accepted by a majority, with a minority of Members of the Golden Dawn who declare that "PARS" is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 26 and a special number 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u908	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u910	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 26 and a special number 26 was accepted by a majority, minority voters of the Potamian Parliamentarians who vote "NOI" and the Communist Party of Greece who declare "PARGON" and are part of the bill as the same article. We have completed the vote on ministerial amendments and we are entering the vote on parliamentary amendments. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 5 and a special number of 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u912	Therefore, Amendment No 5 and Special Number 5 were accepted by a majority of the Members of the Communist Party of Greece who declare "PARON" and are part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 10 and a number of 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u914	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 10, and a special number 10, was accepted by a majority of the Members of the Communist Party of Greece who vote for "OTI" and are part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 11 and a special number 11 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u916	Therefore, Amendment No 11 and Special Number 11 were accepted by a majority vote, minority voters of the Communist Party of Greece who declare "PARON" and are part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 23 and a special number 23, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u917	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 23 and a special number 23 were accepted unanimously and is part of the bill as the same article. These parliamentary amendments accepted by the ministers and unanimously accepted by the House, I think it is proof of popular sovereignty. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 29 and a special number 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u918	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u920	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 29, and a special number of 29, was accepted by a majority, minority voters of the Potamian Parliamentarians who vote "OHI" and the Members of the Communist Party of Greece who declare "PARON" and are part of the bill as the same article. Asked by this House: Is the bill's office accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u922	The celebrity article of the bill is accepted by a majority of the Members of the Communist Party of Greece, who declare "PARON". Consequently, the draft law: ‘Agreements on direct measures to deal with the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and the Governmental Institutions and other provisions’ were adopted in principle, articles and amendments. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u923	So you agree unanimously to vote on it as a whole. Does this House accept the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u926	The bill was therefore accepted by a majority as a whole, minority voters of the JRC Members who declare ‘PARON’ and of the Potamian Members who declare ‘PARON’. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity: ‘Standards for direct measures to address the humanitarian crisis, for the organisation of the Government and Governmental Institutions and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of them and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u927	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole. Is the authorisation granted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u928	Authorisation has been granted unanimously. Finally, I would like to ask the House whether the resolution tabled by Mrs Vageias is acceptable and was read, in relation to the protest by Members of the Greek Parliament about the Costello statements, during the debate in Parliament on the humanitarian crisis bill. Can the resolution be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u929	The resolution is therefore accepted by a majority. The resolution says: "We, the Members of the Greek Parliament, protest the statements made by Deglan Costello, Director of Financial Affairs of the Commission, which were made known to us during the plenary session of the Parliament on 17 March 2015 on the resolution on the humanitarian crisis. The House is the leading institution of expression of popular will and it is an insult to all of us any intervention in our legislative work from institutions that have not been elected by the Greek people." The majority said he was voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u930	A statement wants to make the JRC. Parliament's Rules of Procedure do not provide...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u931	I'll give you the floor, Mrs Manolakou. I will give the floor to those who want to register a different opinion. It's Mrs. Manolakou, Mr. Kegeroglu and Mr. Gregos. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u932	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for resolutions because the House is legislating. In this sense, the Bureau is being dissatisfied by putting a motion for a resolution on it. Each party expresses its opinion and expresses its opinion. We are therefore not taking part in this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u933	However, Mrs Manolakou, I would remind you that we have unanimously adopted a resolution with the participation of your Members and during the debate on the renewal of the Committee on German Indemnity, and in particular Mr Mitafidis has proposed a resolution with which Parliament has declared its readiness and at that time has not raised any objection. Your objection has been recorded. It will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u934	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u935	Mr. Kegeroglou, you have the floor, and then Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u936	In substance, we have expressed our position in the same spirit and even more important issues that do not include the resolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u937	Do you vote for it or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u938	Wait a minute. Don't be in a hurry. You will not downgrade a huge issue that should not only be in the form of a resolution, but also in the political position of all parties in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u939	We read it at noon, Mr Kegeroglu, and I told you that it would be put to the vote at noon when we read it. I told everyone that it would be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u940	This does not mean that the appropriate political response to this important issue must be a simple resolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u941	Okay. We're waiting for your proposal to upgrade it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u942	Will you let me talk? The appropriate response is to vote for this bill in itself and with the majority of the votes adopted and the unanimity in these articles, and that is the answer to these gentlemen, even if Mr Varoufakis signed that the humanitarian crisis was also under the approval of lenders, which was unacceptable because this policy was agreed and did not need the approval of lenders. We therefore agree with the resolution, except that it undermines the political energy that the country should have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u943	It doesn't degrade at all. It's backing up. Mr Panayotopoulos has the floor and we will close because the sitting has to be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u944	The JRC's position is a break with the European Union and not such resolutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u945	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u946	I would like to express the view that the treatment of this resolution at 2.35 ́ as ever post-mortem amendments, in the same way, is inappropriate...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u947	But it has been read since noon, Mr Panayotopoulos, and you are rapporteur, you were present.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u948	I'm rapporteur to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u949	And you heard it, you didn't raise any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u950	To a large extent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u951	Well, your location has been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u952	In similar cases of national importance, there is only a debate on this matter and not by the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u953	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-18-S2-commons.u954	With the consent of the House, 2.40 minutes will be closed for Thursday, March 19, 2015 at 9.30, on the subject of this House's work: a) a debate on topical questions and a debate and a vote on the request for immunity of Members of Parliament. Panos Kammenos, Nikos Karathanasopoulos and Christos Kelles.
