ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Xanna, to read the references to this House. Please, Mr. Xanna, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. SYRIZA MEP Mr Simeon Ballis submits a report to the Ministry of Finance, by which the Regional Department of Magnesia of the Technical Chamber of Greece (TEC) calls for the immediate amendment of Presidential Decree 111/2014 concerning the public property and the restoration of the operation of autonomous organic units in each county, with full operation as a head of department, appropriate staffing and equipment and with the responsibilities of the former property services. SYRIZA MEP Mr Hussein Zabeck submits to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity a letter from the Mayor of Myce, Xanthi, describing the problem of completing the social work programme, since 90% of the project's successors do not have the criterion of high school education, so that the successful unemployed in the region do not meet the conditions for compulsory education (HS) jobs in a period when this programme is a unique opportunity of employment. The Members of SYRIZA and so on. Nikolaos Syrgylleneos, Antonios Syrigos and Nikolaos Manios submitted a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, with which the Municipality of Paros requests the launch of SEA JET 2 on the island of Paros, in order to prevent the separation of lines between eastern and western Cyclades and to enhance intra-cyclical communication with islands that have international airports and with the rest of the islands. New Democracy MP George Vlachos reports to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, with which the Mayor of Megares complains about the delay in the restoration of the area of uncontrolled disposal of waste (CIDS) of Megaron and the imposition of a fine by the European Union. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Marios Salmas presents a report to the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, in which the presidents of the local communities of the Municipal Unit (IU) of the Municipality of Agrinio express concern about the progress of construction work along the national road (EO) Agrinio - Karpenisios. Parliamentary of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Tasulas presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, in which four collective bodies and hundreds of nine residents of the local Marble community of the Municipality of Ioannina applicants for annulment under Protocol No 19883/650/5-2015 decision of the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration of Epirus - Western Macedonia on the subject "Amendment of the number 11160/04-11-2010 decision of the Prefecture of Ioannina, concerning the operation of a photovoltaic park with a capacity of 149,76 KW, established under the heading "Gamela - Fever" of the local Marble community of the Municipality of Ioannis, with regard to the installation on the same field of production of Biogas from Central Biomassa for Electricity (REW) of the company. Mr Spyros Danellis presents a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, with which the Federation of Deaf Greeks presents a proposal for the performance of the Road Traffic Code in the Greek sign language and for its distribution in electronic form to all deaf and hard citizens of the country. The Member States of the JRC Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos and Nikolaos Moraitis submitted a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the Mayor of Patras highlights the need to complete the reconstruction work of the old building of the 16th Municipal School of Patras during the summer months and calls for the continuation of its funding. Ellinikos Dimitrios Kammenos presents a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, with which the athletes of the petosphere team of the Saronic Aegina Sports Group protest the conditions of their training and highlight the need to investigate the possibility of financing for the construction of a closed basketball and volleyball field on the island. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou submits a petition to the Ministry of Economic and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Trade Union EKVA (formerly EKO), denounces the provisions of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Travel travel within and outside the territory of the Ministry of Finance" concerning wage matters and the scheme for the compensation of travellers' traffic personnel and calls for his withdrawal. SYRIZA MP Simeon Ballis reports to the Ministry of Health, by which the Hellenic Society of Disease Alzheimer and Continuous Volos Disorders highlights the unfavourable state of the unit, due to its underfunding. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Tasulas presents a report to the Ministry of Finance, which calls for the reduction of the objective values of the properties in the geographical area of that municipality. Mr Catherine Marku, Member of the Commission, presents to the Ministry of National Defence the letter from the Union of Military Regions of Central Macedonia on the possibility of maintaining domestic animals in military homes. MEP Dimitrios Kammenos presents a report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, by which the Greek Trade Union Workers' Union of Attica and Shipbuilding Greece denounces the negative position of the representative of the Ministry of Labour and President of the Joint Audit Committee in carrying out checks to ensure compliance with the hygiene and safety measures at the "SPANOPOULOU" shipyard in Salamis. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou submits a report to the Ministry of Health and Finance, by which the Medical Association of Heraklion warns of the risks posed by non-mandatory prescription drugs (MYSYFA) from supermarkets. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Tasulas presents a report to the Ministry of Finance, which calls for the reduction of the objective values of the properties in the geographical area of the Municipality of Konitsas. New Democracy MP Athanasios Bourras submits a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, in which the Mayor of Megaron complains about the delay in the restoration of the area of uncontrolled disposal of waste (CHS) Megaron and the imposition of a fine by the European Union. MEP of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis submits a report to the Ministry of Health, in which the Medical Association of Magnesia highlights the problems the medical industry faces in the Magnesia region and generally throughout the country. New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Andrianos submits a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, by which the Argolidis and Arcadia Firefighting Association calls for the inclusion in the table of prominent fire extinguishers and of the hundred contracted fire extinguishers that were first hired in 2009. Athanasios Bourras presents a petition to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs of the Mayor of Aspropyrgos concerning the abolition of qualifications in Professional Schools (PSC) and calls for the establishment of an afternoon or afternoon high school in Aspropyrgos as a matter of urgency, since Aspropyrgos is inhabited by more than twenty thousand new refugees, expatriates from the former Soviet Union, who focus almost exclusively on technical education. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou reports to the Ministry of Finance and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, by which the Association of Foreign Language Center Owners PALSO of Heraklion is protesting about the requirement to produce information only from private training centres in the process of updating the authorisations of foreign language centres. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr.Ioannis Andrianos, submits a report to the Ministry of Finance, which calls for the possibility of abolishing the fine in late intra-Community trade. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Eleftherios Augenakis, submits a report to the Ministry of Finance and Health, by which the Medical Association of Heraklion warns about the risks posed by non-compulsory prescription medicines (MYSAF) from supermarkets. Catherine Marcos, Member of the Central Macedonian Parliament, presents a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, by which the Association of Central Macedonia's staff presents proposals and claims, setting out serious issues of subsistence and inadequacy of organic positions in the services of the Port Authority, shortcomings of infrastructure, as well as issues relating to the service of the ports. MEP of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis presents a report to the Ministry of Finance that the Regional Department of Magnesia of the Technical Chamber of Greece highlights the malfunctions and problems of the implementation of the M.D. 111/2014 in matters of competence of the Directorate-General for Public Property and Communes of the General Secretariat for Public Property. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Bukoros presents a report to the Ministry of Finance, in which the Hellenic Society of Disease Alzheimer and Continental Volos Disorders highlights the unfavourable situation in which the unit has arrived due to its underfunding. New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Andrianos submits a reference to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, with which students of the School of Vocational Training and Epidaurus present arguments, highlighting the importance of the school and applicants for the continuation of its operation. MEP: Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis submits a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, in which the Panhellenic Federation of Associations of Fire Force Officials calls for the amendment of the a.d. /2014, in order for the multiple employees of the Fire Corps to make use of the right to parental leave without restriction. MEP: Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos reports: To the Ministry of Health, concerning: (a) the complaint by the Pan-Hellenic Trade Union Confederation of Nursing Personnel (PASONOP) concerning a scandal involving the recruitment of nurses under the program of psychiatric reform "PSYCHARGO", which appears to be employed in a specific hospital unit in Xanthi, without, however, doing so. (b) in a post of the POPOPONNIS newspaper, edition 5-6-2015, which highlights the need to cover with personal security at Patras’ Agios ANDREAS Hospital. c) in a publication of the newspaper 'CHANGY', edition 6-5-2015, which highlights the need to reintroduce the disinfected drivers of the "Agios ANDREAS" Hospital of Patras, as their absence prevents the proper functioning of the hospital. (d) in a publication of the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA", published 9-6-2015, that the President of the Attica Dental Association denounces the illegal employment of foreigners, allegedly dentists, as well as other illegal activities at the expense of industry and public health. (e) to a citizen's proposal for the design and implementation of a health centre in the area of Lampia in Divri, Mount Elia. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on a request from the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor of Education and Sports of the Municipality of Patras, on the need to complete the reconstruction work of the 16th Municipal School of Patras during the summer months and to continue its funding. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, on the request of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Informatics Teachers (ICP) for the stay of the course for the selection of Informatics in Class III of the General High School. To the Ministry of Finance, which is a complaint from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Marine Fuels, on the doubling of the annual advance payment of income tax on fuel trade. To the Ministry of National Defence, concerning a request from three associations of Armed Forces' officers to speed up the time of notification of military transfers for 2015, to facilitate their family planning. To the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on a newspaper "The editors' Journal", 8-6-2015, which refers to the maladministration responsibilities of members of the asylum administration, which are likely not to be attributed to the change in the legal form of the institution. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, regarding the publication of the newspaper “KONTRA NEWS”, edition 7-6-2015, which highlights the incalculable disasters in farm infrastructure in Serres, due to the recent floods in the region and supports the change in agricultural policy by ensuring the necessary infrastructure for the uninterrupted agricultural production. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, concerning a complaint by the Trade Union of EKVA (formerly EKVA) concerning the provisions of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance “Extra-territorial Costs” on wage issues and the compensation scheme of its travellers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Xanna. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 358/16-6-2015 of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the extension of submission of the declaration by the professional farmer pursuant to the n. Date of birth: (a) 4254/2014. (b) 4254/2014. (c) 4254/2014. The Minister will answer Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis. Mr. Karayannides, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is an issue that you know very well. It has been tortured by farmers for about a quarter, that is, a long time. This is the first time that this provision has been applied in the country. It is a provision which obliges professional farmers to submit an electronic form to the UNHCR and to declare their professional status so that it can be cleared in accordance with this status. Now, because of ignorance or because of misinterpretation of the law, perhaps because of a bad familiarity with electronic media, a significant number of farmers did not do so by 31 March. I know that on your own initiative an extension was given until early June, but this did not solve the problem as a whole. The danger is that farmers will be invited, because the forms have not been submitted, to be paid with non-professional farmers' money, in other words to take the price of a non-professional farmer. This may also lead to a refund of money. In exceptional cases there are farmers who can pay more money and risk being accused of doing so, i.e. paying more money. I propose that you reply to us about what the Ministry intends to do from now on, which is what his intentions are. In fact, I think there is something distorting. When professional farmers make statements to the tax office, their professional status was recorded once. I don't know if the obligation every year in the first quarter of the year to declare that they are professional farmers is helping cross-check data. It could be through the tax office that their capacity to pass to the UN and solve the problem once and for all so that we do not have such issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr Karayannides. Minister Panagiotis Lafazanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u7	Mr Karayannides' timely question is very correct, as he raises a real problem which is currently afflicting many farmers throughout Greece. We in our ministry have received these protests and complaints. That is why, Mr Karayannides, in response to your sensitivity too, our Ministry has tabled a regulation on the bill, which has been consulted - the consultation on grazing land has, in fact, ended. We are giving this regulation the opportunity from voting on the relevant law and with an extension of two months to give a second chance to farmers, who, for various reasons, were unable to make this statement. We now give them the opportunity to do so with the deadline for the new one, and therefore to obtain the arrangements and compensation of the professional farmers, if they are entitled to it. It would be unfair to lose this possibility because, for reasons not primarily responsible for themselves, they were unable to submit their statement in time. Of course, we listen carefully to what you say that it is not possible for this process to be repeated every year. Since the register of professional farmers has been established, the obligation to submit an exemption declaration no longer to those who will no longer be professional farmers and not to those who continue this activity must be provided by the register. Finally, I would like to tell you that the Ministry is currently planning a programme which will allow us - I imagine - in the next few months to improve the compensation for the very small RES producers and especially for photovoltaic producers, and especially for the farmers who are working. I think we're on the right track. The difficulties in this area are great, too great. We hope for a step - a step in the right direction - to have a positive result in the immediate future. I thank you, however, for your question and your sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u9	After the answer from the Minister, I do not think I have much to say. Since this issue is solved - and it is solved immediately - and the sensitivity that the Ministry has with regard to such problems is evident, I have the opportunity to say something else: The photovoltaic site was considered the new Eldorado by the previous governments. Tens, hundreds of thousands of people were caught. They risked, and even now, losing their properties, homes, because prices were rising like an elevator. The Greek State itself did not respect its signature and while it had a very specific commitment from the contracts signed by the citizens with the public, as far as PV prices are concerned, the public itself came and said that these prices are no longer what you will be paid, but much less. It has never been done in such a way that the credibility of the public is lost to the citizens when they sign specific contracts with them. So I think - and the Minister said that - he goes into another orbit. This process will now be changed. It will stop the unregulated installation of photovoltaics wherever land is. There will finally be a framework in which people involved in trade, electricity producers with renewable sources, will be able to know the framework. That is what I think will lead us to a different landscape in terms of renewable energy sources. However, it remains to be said: renewable energy can cover a very large part of energy production. What, in my personal view, needs to be started - and the Ministry has set it as an objective, as far as I know - is to reduce energy consumption. The solution to the energy problem will come through a great effort by the Ministry to discipline the world of stopping the over-consumption of energy in our country and especially in the summer months and especially in urban areas, which have been built in such a way that they are transformed into ovens during the summer season. So it remains to be seen the implementation of the things announced by the Minister. I'm pretty optimistic that it'll be in a very short time. This proves the sensitivity of the ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr Karayannides. Does the Minister wish to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u11	I don't have anything special to add. I think Mr. Karayannis covered the matter. From the perspective, of course, the reduction of energy consumption and energy savings and, of course, the discharge of the space of energy from robbery private interests that are being rampant is primarily active policies, which are necessary at the present time and which we are planning, in order to reduce energy prices as a whole and in order to better design the PV area and the prices for the compensation that will be made to be reasonable and, at the same time, to address the major energy problem from all perspectives, and its development and ecological ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr Karayannides. The second question, under number 351/15-6-2015, of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the fire at the recycling plant in Aspropyrgos and the third with number 347/15-6-2015, the second question of the Attica MP of the New Democracy, George Vlachos, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, on the enormous omissions in the suppression of the factory in Aspropyrgos, shall refer to the same subject and shall be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time by applying the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. Which of the two honourable Members wants to take the floor first? Mr. Vlao, it gives you the opportunity, noblely, Mr. Katsaniotis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is well known the facts that we experienced the previous period in the wider region of Assylum. The fact that we have lived - as I said - has highlighted the real problems of a wider area. That is why I am bringing this question today to debate. It's not just the omissions, the inconsistency and all that we've lived in those days that we're close. We are talking about an area which faces many loose ends, many issues. I'd say it's an area where, when it gets dark, it's illegal. So there, it's where a class has to come in. In order for a class to enter, there must be the agreement of both the Ministry and the other bodies, such as the region. Because phenomena like this exist regularly. Maybe they don't get that land. They may not have this burden on the environment and people's lives. And you must know, however, that there is, as I said, illegality, activity of marginal groups. And all this is at the expense of organized local society. I must not tell you that this factory, which is still smoked, has afflicted the area. The only response he responded immediately was the fire brigade, which "fighted" for several days. The problem, however, has not been solved. If you watched last night too, you would see that at night there are marginal groups looking into the burned to search for iron, sheet and the rest, decoupling fences. And you understand that the area is reminiscent of a skull place. So, there, we all have a duty today for you and you who have a political responsibility to put one order. I will stop here, Mr President, and I will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr Vlacho. Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will put a broader dimension on this subject. We all know that waste was a field that many thought was an entrepreneurial opportunity. It was a place where when you put the ribbon of ecological sensitivity with the environment, it became even more good business. And as a result, we had operations such as this one, which did not comply with any specification, because it was, in fact, a waste disposal facility. As the environmental report says, it was actually illegally collecting, transporting temporary storage and uncontrolled disposal of potentially hazardous waste, without any study, without any authorisation. We also saw that the rate of dioxins, as measured in the area, was very high. We've all witnessed a series of publications. I'll mention two features: "Braves, crickets and hundreds of millions of euros, compose the scene around recycling. Control authorities are talking about mafia harder than that of drugs." Official Journal of the European Union ‘The cycle of immunity: fictitious recycling residues, illegal shipment of mixed waste to the premises of CIDs, over-calculations of equipment and work’. The other point we need to see is that it is the second of the three recycling factories, which is on fire, without any fire-fighting system and no sanitation channels. This is a big problem, which we need to see, Minister, because at the suppression no rough channels were created, because all ashes with residues, whether dioxins or heavy metals, were left on the ground or were at sea. What we need to see is from now on how we manage these recycling plants, how controls are carried out and where controls are carried out. Perhaps this accident, Minister, brings the Greek and the proposal that has been heard by the Minister of Government, because we should see how close to inhabited areas there can be such factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr Katsaniotis. I, too, share, Minister, as a member of the Attica Region, the concern of the citizens, particularly as Mr Vlachos said, as well as Mr Katsaniotis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, your sensitivity is absolutely justified. I'd answer, first of all, starting with you, that waste is an investment opportunity. It must be an investment opportunity and we must stop treating them like a risk. We must begin to treat them in the direction of a circular economy as products. Of course, this has nothing to do with lawlessness, which in a particular business was confirmed from 2011 and earlier, with reports from inspectors and requests from the prosecutor. I inform you that since 2011, while criminal responsibilities have been requested by the owner, the competent inspectors have not yet been invited by the prosecutor to testify for infringements confirmed since then. But I do not want to comment - and this is a reality - on Greek justice. Like also, the fact that, once again from what I hear - it is not my competence, it is clearly the responsibility of the prosecutor of the environment - that particular businessman will again be persecuted for a flood from the past. Also, despite the fact that there were confirmed infringements and serious negligences, such as the fact that there was no yolk in the region - we will see them later - for the days of my predecessor, the operation of the operation was authorized as usual, as if there were no grounds for doing so. I would also like to point out that there is no link between the integrated waste management that is completely clean and secure, with this company there, which was, by name, a recycling operation. In practice - you also know very well from the recent reports by inspectors following the accident - it has been shown that it has had dozens of other materials which have nothing to do with either the company's specifications or, of course, with recycling, such as illegal medicines, for example, which are very dangerous when they are bulk. As far as the question is concerned, I think there is an inaccuracy because there has been an immediate mobilisation of the firefighting, despite the lack of the cruise in the area that had to exist to get water, all municipalities and the aqueduct region and I think we have to admit that the fire has been erased in record time. These things that smoke there are not the same fire, but they are essentially illegal, as your colleague quite rightly said. They are regional groups that are currently burning, as a car was burned yesterday to get the metal. There's the police that's doing the impossible, it's the MATs. You understand, however, that dealing with these behaviours is not just an object closely "I go MATs, I prosecute them". It is a very complex social and economic problem why these groups are there. They are hundreds of people living there, violating their own sanitary conditions. As for the rest of the question, I will say some scientific evidence. The figures for the small particles from the fire in the first hours and very close to the place - where there are no dwellings - were around 600 micrograms per cubic metre, with a limit of 25. Beware, however, of an average limit of 25 - and this is a peak value, a peak - and never from the second day onwards, they exceeded 250 micrograms at a distance of three kilometres. To understand the number and understand the citizens who are listening, the 250 micrograms peak, we have them daily in the days with fireplaces and throughout Attica, while these measurements are only in the direction of the wind, where the smoke was and not in the other areas that were not being nursing. So the measures it has taken, in our view, as a ministry, the Ministry of Health, that is to say, simply recommend that we close our windows and not engage ourselves, were in the right direction and panic would be unfair to either isolated the area or evacuate the area, which is completely inconsistent with the measurements. It may have been tragic, but thanks to the praiseworthy intervention of the firefighting - and we must congratulate it on it, because it insisted on trying with water rather than other means which we have often urged them to do - its business option was finally vindicated. I think it deserves these congratulations to be heard at the Race of the House, because we experts have been told that such fires may take months. Here, this, thank God, didn't happen. We had time to record on a very difficult fire, the hardest, than Mr. Serentellos says, who has ever faced his life. That's all in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u18	You have more time, you have time in duplicate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u20	You have our tolerance, so you have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u21	I would therefore like to say a few other scientific data on dioxins. Because that's where we've been holding an extensive meeting. People need to know that dioxins are not pollutants. They are pollutants that become dangerous when they are on the ground after the fire and pollute food. So the recommendation that we have given - and thankfully the region has no such extensive uses, but only some isolated and a little marginal livestock - was to keep the animals out of the countryside, not to eat open grazing and to check - even though there is a negligible possibility of contamination, yet we have already checked it - water from the Mornos open canal, which, of course, you know is being refined afterwards, so there is no question, because, as I said, dioxins are not hydrochloric compounds in order to dissolve themselves in water, they are retained by filters. Measurements have been made, we wait for the results, but scientists are already considering that it is not excluded - because it is running water and not a lake-free tank - to be at risk of charging dioxins polycarbons and other compounds in Morno's water that are the only outdoor water project. The recommendation that is given is the people who are very close - the few who are too few to listen to us and the Roma sympathizers - to wash the food they have in the countryside well, to wash the fruit from the outside. This is the important recommendation for dioxins. They must also hear that, when there are such dangers, prophylaxis is precisely that. It's not from inhalation dangerous dioxins. It's from ingestion, from the food we eat. That's all for now and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Minister. People look forward to your knowledge and other interventions in this regard. Mr. Katsaniotis, would you like to be second?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u23	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u24	Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would also like to put my other capacity as responsible, head of the regional party of Western Greece. Living the problems in the Tower very intensely, in Patras Osonouau, you have a very big field. I take the opportunity too, because I read a report that radical changes are coming up in a number of things. So maybe it's an opportunity if you can tell us what these changes you said to "HIMA" on Sunday. It'll be very important. I would agree with you that the piece of waste is a piece that is very important. It is a part where confrontation must not be coloured and a point on which we must all agree on how to go forward and become a modern European country. As far as this incident is concerned, it has brought back to the fore a part that we all know, we all see it, we all forget it when accidents stop and unfortunately we always find it in front of us. So if we could know from now on what the changes are going to be, it would be very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you have seen, I did not deal with measurements, because I really didn't want our fellow citizens in this area to be scared. In addition, as a Member of Parliament, I must clarify that the farmed areas are quite far from the area where we had the incident. It is right what you said about dioxins, with the impact, etc., so that there is no anxiety about the citizens who are supplied products from the region and also for the citizens who live there. The ones I wanted to show up were two things. The first was an inconsistency between the responsible authorities whether they were ministries or the region. You're saying the Department of Health intervened. But he intervened, Minister, on Tuesday, which was the third day. Three days he burned and said on the third day he would close the windows and all these instructions. We expected the Department to be ready and that's what he said from the start. You said you made an intervention. But, Minister, you made the fourth day of intervention. You said about the region, etc. Yes, but the periphery, if you remember, told us those days that it had not paid the private person whose machines had been used in a previous incident and refused to contribute, since there was no money, to transport land and everything else. That's what we heard. We were listening to a little or a big salt. I don't want to jeopardize or exaggerate. That was the reality. You gave congratulations to the fire department. And I'll first say congratulations to the fire department. We saw the Atticarch be there day after night, we saw people fight with the possibilities they had. It wasn't the yolk deficit. Water took with the help of the aqueducts of the municipalities from neighboring cliffs. The problem wasn't there. We didn't have water shortages. We had a lack of machinery and materials, if the soil was essential, but it was not a matter of fireworks. The fire extinguisher did her job very well. He went there in time, stayed there for many days, is still there, throwing water. That's what he could do. In fact, because this material - you know it very well - is easily sealed, it took machinery to cut this hill, so that the water can enter into the inside of the fire and can erase it. That is why today there is this smoke, these fumes. Because all this material must be transported, shaken, so that it can erase it definitively. You also said that it is an investment opportunity to manage waste. I'll agree with you. Except that you did not say these in previous years, when attempts were made to solve waste for a definitive solution. You also tamed as a political space in local communities the sky with the stars. I remember what you said to the people of Keratea. And now you're coming to collect the unbeatables on this subject too. But listen, Minister. Investment opportunity can be, as it is in all countries. But an investment opportunity with rules, not immunity. And there's plenty of immunity there. Everyone does what they want. We must finally - and this is not just your responsibility, it is previous - get into order. All those who go and get the metal objects, they're obviously selling them somewhere. So if we don't go to the source, we don't go to find the so-called strapatzis, the recipients of these materials, this theft won't stop. And we have to do the self-evident thing at last. Let's see where these people are doing. Why did they burn the truck yesterday? So the irons go where? Why are the cables burning? To take the copper where? Someone's getting them. And someone gets it at an opportunity price. That's the network we need to cut off. And we have a responsibility. Indeed, we must all make a contribution. You also said that the MATs could go. And that is what I shall close, Mr President. Indeed, the MATs will go, they will drive out those who are illegally active there. But the next day they'll be back. So here, with what you have said and what I repeat, the permanent problem with the wider area of policing arises. And if it is something Mr. Mitropoulos knows about it, the Mayor of the Egyptian Prime Minister, Mr. Melletou, has recently pointed it out at a conference that he did and we were there for the wider area to be involved in policing. The whole of Greece, Attica has many needs. But there, because the illegality - as I told you earlier - is waging, it needs more help, more support from the state. And that must be your second intervention. The first is to be in the Ministry of Finance, to block the recipients of the materials stolen, and the second to the police, so that with a network on a permanent basis, to protect the area and stop this illegal activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr Vlacho. You raised interesting issues of the long - suffering Trinity. Minister, you have the floor. Time is in duplicate again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. First we put some things in place. Another thing is the announcements from the Ministries - as far as I know the Ministry of Health's communication was on Monday and not Tuesday - and other things the journalists, who attended the meeting we held on account of what is going on until that time on Tuesday night and obviously received extensive journalistic coverage. I fear, indeed, that the information you get on the possible attachment is again from journalistic information that often cut off our phrases and use them as appropriate. Indeed, I told a journalist on Sunday morning - if I remember - or on Monday how we expect individuals to enter and attempt on bulldozers voluntarily - because the majority of these work machines belong to individuals - when we owe them money. In fact, I mentioned an incident from my own Ministry, where my predecessor obviously had put some money into a similar crisis and still have not been paid by the Ministry because of the crisis. This thing has been completely misused, that the region is supposed to owe money, or that it is supposedly not the region to pay potential contractors, while I was referring to people who give their machines and risk them, because they are not machinery for this work, nor are they trained for fire. However, we have already known since Sunday that the work machines are inside. The evidence we have is that the work machinery has brought it up by the region but also by private contractors since Sunday and that they have fragmented the material - as you quite rightly said - so that it can be erased with water. As for the supposed soil we couldn't afford to pay, the soil was there. And I tell you that we have already put in the firefighting room since Monday, in consultation with the "Attica Metro" that makes the work with contractors in Piraeus, the metro soil that is free of charge. Because this dirt people are looking to give it. So we had soil. Just at the meeting that took place, it was unequivocally the firefighting that due to the peculiarity of the space and the absence of the owner they could not attempt with soil and eventually the reality justified them. Therefore, gleaning from here and there various publications to prove that someone did not do well, is flawed by the facts themselves. And the periphery was there and the aqueducts were there for the adequacy, covering the lack of cranes - I stress it. Finally, the result justifies them all: it is also the region that deserves congratulations on the way in which the machinery has been provided, but also on the individuals who have attempted to do so. Because - badly lies - with the situation that exists today, there is a dramatic reality: we have municipalities and regions with excellent machinery bought by the NSRF, which, due to the horizontal availability that has been introduced from the memorandum, have no drivers to operate them. And that's not just here in Attica, it's in dozens of parts of the country. He mentioned me in the Peloponnese region by too many mayors that they have new machines and they sit. They don't have a person to go in and drive them. In the event of a crisis, there will be no human being driving them. Besides training is incomplete for these people. Because I'm telling you their job isn't to make fires. But these are the pathogens known to be unresolved in the crisis, nor is it possible from one day to the next to find people to train them, etc., when they tell us that we do not have the right to hire others, because the public is already big. We also hear them all the time, that we go - he says - to make Soviets, to make big public, when you know very well that these horizontal cuts have increased the inefficiency of Greek public administration and are destroying it against entrepreneurship. You mentioned entrepreneurship. Personally, I don't know who you're talking about in the plural. I am one of those who has always been in favour of the fact that garbage is an excellent product that must turn to the citizens in a fair way, because it is the citizens who have bought it. When I buy a can of refreshment, it's my asset, because I've paid for the aluminum. So his reuse must return to me in some way, I have the motive and not some big-time slaves. If that's where we disagree, our disagreement will remain. Not that we have said that this thing is no useful material. I would like to stress something: I have never said - and I mentioned it in my first speech, and now I am making it clear - that the Roma will be treated with the MATs. Nor were they treated by the MATs. I said a reality, namely that the MATs are necessarily in the area at the moment because of the crisis. But it is obvious that the Roma are a social problem because of the way some families are. Of course, not all families are to God. Don't put all this nice class of people in the same category. There are some who are involved in what you have already mentioned, in this permanent illicit trafficking in recycled products. However, it is clear that this will only be solved if we are to legislate seriously on waste management and the RTEs in recycling are cleared up, which, unfortunately, has not been done so far by the previous governments. We are doing this with the new national plan. We stress that state intervention must be too strict in alternative management systems and there must be too much transparency. And know that the systems that work properly have not been alarmed by the measures we want to take. Those who fear and risk are the ones who know lawlessness. And know one more thing: Healthy businesses, the ones doing the right recycling, have a huge survival problem from the illegal trafficking and the lawlessness that currently exists outside. We have dozens of complaints from entrepreneurs operating properly in the area that protect the environment, but who have a small increased cost. And how will we protect them with the current opaque regime? So these are things that we have taken into consideration in the new national plan and you will immediately see the legislative arrangements that will be in the direction of the solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr Katsaniotis. Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. The third under number 345/12-6-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Argolidas of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Georgiou Galeos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the risk of excluding farmers from the community of Agios Dimitrios Argolidas from the right to compensation for compensation, will not be discussed due to a blocking Member. The fifth question, under number 334/9-6-2015, is a topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning compensation for farmers in Elias for damages suffered by their farmers from the intense weather phenomena, will not be debated as a result of a blockade by MP. The first question by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning "the fines that Greek taxpayers and farmers have to pay for the mismanagement of previous years in relation to European and state agricultural aid, will not be discussed due to a blockade by a Member. The Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, informed us that he was ready to answer all three questions. The first under number 352/15-6-2015 topical question by the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukokorous, to the Minister for Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the Petroleum Compensation, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The fourth question under number 293/2-2015, the second question from the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the Media (MEP) and the equal promotion of parties, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment. Finally, the sixth question (No. 178/4-5-2015) of the Second Cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning the appeal to the judiciary of television stations for the decisions of the Minister of State on the basis of which they were imposed retroactive frequency charges, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment of the Minister. The second question will now be developed under number 344/12-6-2015 of the second question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Michou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the changes in the management of waste. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Mr. Micho, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I want you to allow me: I have a piece of paper in my hands. It's from SYRIZA's youth. You are the ruling party right now and thankfully Mr. Paradoxopoulos is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u32	He's not Mr. Paradise. It's Mr. Nikoloudis and Mr. Tsironis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u33	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u34	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u35	Tomorrow we have a gathering in Macedonia, in Thessaloniki for Alexander the Great. This is where SYRIZA's youth signs to gather people to become an anti-concentration. If your party wants to cause trouble to cover some situations that it cannot carry out, it is not right to create and concentrate on Golden Dawn for a legitimate gathering that we are doing for Alexander the Great. Now, on the other hand, the same youth last year and before yesterday was in the front line to get Skopje the name "Macedonia". But that is again a matter for your party. However, I do not think it is right and I want it to be tabled in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Michos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will move on to the question now. Minister, over-optimistic the objectives set by the newly built National Waste Management Plan, presented by the Ministry of the Environment recently. With large plans to reduce waste from landfill sites, it puts waste management responsibilities on the municipalities, hoping to increase recycling rates through the creation of municipal recyclable materials management centres, as well as composting plants. Each municipality is described as exclusive and responsible for planning the appropriate infrastructure for the proper management of waste in sites that can serve the intended needs, protecting the natural environment and public health, without becoming new landfills. The municipality management plans must be completed by the end of October. Is the Minister responsible asking: What eligibility and availability criteria will be used to select the sites where the waste is recycled and composted? Secondly, given the pre-historic tactics that have been made at the municipality level about the placement of waste management infrastructures, how do they intend to deal with the wave of actions and reactions and implement the National Waste Management Plan within such short time limits that have been set? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Micho. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you are addressing, in your question, an issue which is a golden occasion to make it clear, because when we think about integrated waste management in our minds, there is always an illegal dump with the sea gulls above, the odors, drains and the destruction of the aqueduct. I will say this again: we will be on the same fate as we do not realize that these materials, those which we have paid them and very much - especially in urban areas - are the food we consume, what we have in our refrigerators an hour ago, what we feed our children - are not pollutants, they are perfectly healthy, biodegradable products. When we mix them, they turn into a toxic bomb. So all the new national planning is going exactly that logic: do not get involved. To have the sorting of these products at the source, that is, where the consumer's house is, so that when we get to manage them, they are clean and as high as possible of buying value, because these products are sought in the cyclical economy. Therefore, the facilities that we want to put in place and give to municipalities, and - I stress - in clusters of municipalities - because it is not mandatory for every municipality to fight alone, can all fight together, per district, per municipality, per district, per district, per areas having the same, similar geographical characteristics, I have stressed this in every tone - will not be storage facilities, nor CYTA-type facilities, HYTY. They will be facilities which will have a collection of glass, paper collection, composting, done at all the parks at the moment of Europe. And I honestly tell you that a composter is now in my home courtyard and does not cause any nuisance for years to any neighbor. I have been composting for ten to 15 years and I have been losing food considerably. We must therefore understand that a composter either at primary level, which collects pruning, collects biodegradables or at household level, is an activity that is very clean. I would point out this: I would not go to Greek or to Aspropyrgos anywhere - no activity in a residential web, which I would not put into the courtyard of my home. Every country is next to the public. And why should these activities be next to the public? Because that's where the preselects are produced, because the public can't get a mile away to give them. We must have these small collection units within the municipality, but we do not combine them with what we have as an image in our minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. State before the damage is done to the watercourse. I agree. I know that very well. And a great deal of damage is done by so-called Roma who download transformers, the liquid they have inside is extremely carcinogenic, not dispersed when it falls on the earth, and that goes to the aquifer. But with these people it is something different, because they are too many voters and protectors of all parties in the past. If you want to do something about it, like the cables that Mr Vlachos mentioned before, where we know very well what is going on. And not only for them, but also for cemeteries coming in and getting copper and everything else they find. From there on, we know what happened in Keratea. You remember what happened. It had become a mess at the time. The plan is currently under consultation, but, unfortunately, it will end up in private. Macedonia and Thrace will be claimed by Bobolas. Attica claims to be Bobollas and Latsis. In Epirus is claimed by Bobolas, the Red and the Peristeris. In the Peloponnese, the "TERNA" took them. We know very well how much this work is of interest to us. It's too much money. All they don't care about is the damage to the environment and everything else. All they care about is their pocket. From there on, if I had the MOMA - I'm going back a little bit - and machinery would be much easier to help the municipalities do a job. But for the machines that have gone and who have taken them - apart from the ones that have left for Albania - on the Prime Ministership of Mr Simitis, no one has accounted for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Micho. Minister, just a minute to welcome students and students from the pigeon. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having participated in the "Summer Democracy Workshop" educational programme organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and teachers and their professors from the 3rd and 12th High School of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. We wish you health and good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u41	In your second speech you raised a hot issue, a controversy, which in most cases takes soccer conflict conditions between the private and the public. Personally, I have repeatedly written that for political purposes this "sporting conflict" is often the case between the private and the public. Because historically, at least in the countries of the present, as we say, capitalism - which are essentially almost all the countries of the world at the moment, I am not a sociologist or economist to know whether there are exceptions to economies that do not operate in terms of financial and market conditions - in other countries where citizens and politicians do not end up in this barren conflict, we see excellent examples of public agencies and private bodies that offer the citizen. A private business, obviously offers a service or a product to the citizen, but the same must be done by the public administration from its side and at its own time. Examples of historical countries that have no public sector at all, as some see - the very tough neoliberal - or not at all private, do not often have. Everywhere, in all economies, even in the era of existing socialism, the limits were not quite clear. Here in Greece, what we have to do as public administration on our part is provide a healthy environment for any businessman who wants to offer a service, a product in society as a whole and on the other hand force this businessman to respect the public interest and the citizen. In this sense, I have already criticised other speeches - and here in Parliament - some waste management contracts which, in my humble opinion, and also the opinion of the people who drafted the new National Plan, are outside the objectives of the cyclical economy. In other words, these products, which we all agree at the moment are worthy, do not turn to the citizen, but they are plunging the lion's share of the individual. For this reason, we have criticised such contracts and we are asking for them to be reviewed precisely within our plan. This does not mean, however, that even if a municipality makes a public investment, it will not have a trade deal with a final recipient of these products. Some traders will buy these products transparently and with the protection of the public interest. That is what we anticipate in our new national plan. Therefore, when the municipality arrives to collect these materials that are collected in its area - glass, paper, compost, plastics, batteries, electrical appliances - the citizen who made them available to the municipality will have the maximum economic effect. This is our obligation as a state. It's not our obligation as a state to say no one gets them. Obviously, a private company will end up in the end to be used. So, something to do with private individuals must be. We must avoid this type of conception, that, no, everything must be made public. There's got to be a public business he buys? I don't know how we understand this thing when we speak for the public. I have said from the Step forward of this House that these materials are a public resource, as are the recycling charges given by the polluters, the companies producing these materials, are a public resource. And I've explained to other MPs why he's a public resource. This does not mean, however, that in this public resource and in its management, it is impossible and it is forbidden at some stage in this movement that individuals are involved. Don't have that thing in mind like a football dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Mr. Mijo, the Minister owns this issue. We hope you can fight it effectively! Mr. Minister, Mr. Nicoludi, Mr. Karcsoulis, I have to make two announcements in an active session. I will finish and continue with your question. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 29 June 2015. ‘A. (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 377/23-6-2015 by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the progress of important infrastructure projects in Messinia such as the 'Kalomata - Rizzomylos' projects and the Perimeter of Kalamata. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 379/23-6-2015 by the Deputy Minister of Attica, New Democracy, Mr Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning measures to reduce crime in the Neocto-Octo-Octo-Octo-Octo-Ef-Asvrigos. 3. The question by No 370/19-6-2015 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antonio Gregos to the Ministers of National Defence and Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the conference organized by the so-called "Austra-Macedonia Committee on Human Rights" in collaboration with the "Uran Arc", whose purpose is to "rewrite Macedonia's history". 4. The Question No 363/16-6-2015 by Congressman Pireas of the River Mr Nikolaos Orphanou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the treatment of unemployment in the Shipbuilding Rehabilitation Zone of Perama. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 376/23-6-2015 of the Deputy State of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Agalias Kyritsis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the emergency measures resulting from increased refugee flows on the islands of the Northeast Aegean. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 380/23-2015 topical question by MP Korinthias, New Democracy, Christou Dimas, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the preparedness and strengthening of the Anti-missile Office. 3. The Question No 365/18-6-2015 by Congressman of Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the need for an immediate solution to the intra-Cyprus ferry routes during a tourist season. 4. The Question No 356/16-6-2015 by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the compulsory invoices of discounts and other possible suppliers' benefits to the super markets. 5. The question by No. 219/14-5-2015 is a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the provocative action of Skopje in Florina. 6. The 234/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on bilateral relations with the neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No. 168/28-4-2015 of MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of the name of Macedonia to the Skopje". 8. The 361/16-6-2015 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on measures to restore intra-cyclical maritime communication. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper “Aydinlik” that "Turkey proceeded to set up a committee to reclaim sixteen Greek islands". Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA MP Mr.Ioannis Stathas is requesting a short-day leave from 25-6-2015 to 30-6-2015 for absence in Germany and SYRIZA MP Mr. Nikolaos Srmallenes is requesting permission from 26-6-2015 to 29-6-2015 for absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u43	The House approved the requested permits. We are now entering the development of the latest timely question, No 339/11-6-2015, of the Potamian State MEP Mr Panagiotis Karkasoulis, to the Minister of State for the fight against corruption, on the results of the anti-corruption government's actions. The Minister of State for the Fight against Corruption will answer Mr. Panagiotis Nikoloudis. Mr. Cartassouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the reason why this timely question should be formulated is to be informed, and to inform the House and the Greek people in a broad sense, where we are in connection with the fight against corruption. I should like to mention that this is a major issue, which is of course of importance. It has also been emphasised in the programme statements, it has also been emphasised by you on a number of occasions. In any case, it is an absolute priority, especially at times when our country is experiencing where our efforts to respond to increased budgetary and economic requirements are very great. There corruption could be - or potentially - a resource, an amount which could be an effective contribution to the effort of our country's economic upturn. You know this better than everyone, Minister, because according to your previous term of office, your reference to the House was that there are cases that have been checked. You mentioned it was about two thousand. I understand that these are indicative. In any case, however, I put it as a matter of order, because on the other hand you mentioned that 2.5 billion could be saved from the control of these cases. So the first question, which is reasonable, is this? Why, Minister - I ask you, I ask the government - has nothing specific been included in the Greek side's proposal to the institutions during the negotiation? You know that in the ‘Staff Level Agreement’ form, which is dated May 2015, there is reference to corruption and all that is included there is to be a positive anti-corruption plan, which will be completed in July and we assume that then we will know some specific measures. So I wanted to ask you in my first speech whether there is progress in this project and if you can give us more information about it, that is, what specific operational actions includes, who, when, etc. The second thing I wanted to ask you, why do I have a question, is this: The project of coordinated actions which was included in Law 4320/2015 is the same strategic project referred to in the 'Staff Level Agreement'? I would ask you very much to clarify this. I shall also speak about a third very specific issue - one of which we are not discussing in Greece - and I shall conclude my speech with that. I saw the third report on the implementation of the OECD 'Anti Bribery Convention' for March 2015 - I am sure you know it - which is about the control of external bribery, what Greek companies do abroad. So here too, he has mentioned to you specifically, saying that there are seven cases - even, he says, there are seven ongoing investigations - of bribes from foreign companies to Greek officials. I would like you, if you can, to tell us what the outcome of these specific cases is. Because that is very recent and I have seen it, I would like us to know what we are doing about it. The last thing I would like you to do is, if you can, tell us more about the findings of Greek cooperation. I saw with interest that there is reference to Integrated Information Systems there for the control of corruption. If there is a tool that could be effective, it is the existence of integrated information systems to control corruption. If you can, I'd like - because it's major - to give us some more information about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Cartassouli. The honourable Minister, Mr Panagiotis Nikoloudis, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. It would not be a formal courtesy if I said that I truly thank you for this question, which I consider to be an epitome of proper parliamentary scrutiny, because in fact I am absolutely convinced of my small parliamentary experience that this should be the case, namely that the Minister should be asked 'what you have done for this particular period'. From that point of view, I should like to make a few comments on the text of the question and, above all, to point out an inaccurate and possible misunderstanding. It therefore writes the question that I had declared during the government's programming declarations that it has been identified in a number of three and a half thousand cases hidden taxable matter around EUR 7 billion, which are expected to pay a tax of not only EUR 2.5 billion, but EUR 3 to EUR 3.5 billion. The only difference, Mr. Cartassouli, is that I never said about immediate collection. I am sure you remember very well that I had said that there are problems. I wish we could now collect them, but for reasons of distress we will perhaps not be able to collect them very soon. Secondly, I said that, if we are given a little time, this country will be another country. So I come today to abstain from any point of view of any justification which, if I put forward it, I am convinced that you will accept it in good faith, that it is a newly established ministry, a newly established secretariat that takes some time, etc. However, I am only saying one thing and I tell you that I consider that a good law to be drawn up by the right procedure and bring it to the House is needed at least six months. With these data, therefore, and with these pressures, in the period between now and now, we have completed a draft law dealing with dealing with the smuggling of tobacco products. We have started contacts with all stakeholders, whose views will be taken into account for drawing up a draft law to deal with the smuggling of alcohol. Above all, what I would really like to emphasise, in my effort to give you a convincing answer, is that, in my view, we have still issued two hundred seven audit orders to all the Services, always with all the audit mechanisms. In order not only to remain as words, I immediately submit to the Secretariat a document to check - and you can check in any way you want - up to the last case that has been sent, to which mechanism it has been sent and how much number it is to the ILO. It's at your disposal. [[At this point, the Minister of State, Mr Panagiotis Nikoloudis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Referring to the last fact, I would like to say that for me it is an honor for the trust with which citizens and institutions appeal to us, because most of the orders were made following complaints from citizens and institutions. I don't want to break time. I hope that in my denture I will have a greater opportunity to refer to a very critical point, a matter, as you say - in order to show you that without our work, the change I have promised in the area of counter-corruption has begun to take place, is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cartassouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is very encouraging that you have given concrete answers to specific questions, and what I have understood with the very small parliamentary experience I have - and I would like to say publicly at the advice of the President, who has much more experience - is that parliamentary control is to help the government make constructive proposals on how policy can be improved. It is not a field of confrontation between the political parties, as is usually the case. Thank you very much for your remarks. I would like to refer to two - three proposals, which might be useful to you. The first, from my previous experience, is that I would tell you to focus on the following: the draft law may be in particular, but in any case one of your policies could refer to how the causes of corruption are handled. For example, complex administrative procedures, Minister, you know that it is always a cause for the production of corruption. These complicated processes become an outbreak of corruption when the citizen enters into physical contact with some state authorities. I would like to give some examples. In licenses, particularly in autopsies, it is well known that corruption is being played or, in any case, corruption develops during contacts. The more contacts or opportunities for physical contact there are, the greater cases of corruption we face. On the other hand, the same applies to cases where the citizen has to contact either doctors or undergo some examinations, etc. And, of course, when he's going to pay. What I want to tell you is that you should put a number of major administrative procedures at the level of your planning, not more than two to three, where there is civil contact with the state authorities and where the element and the relationship of corruption develops. You must make a proposal there on how this communication could be reduced. It's always electronic technology that helps. I understand that this is more a matter of policy planning and less of a practical approach, of repression in any case. However, I think that from the Ministry, because it is new and there are many expectations that have been put on the table for you, it is good to give such a sign of writing. I realise that this is also more a matter of coordination - and of intra-government and government - with the other levels of administration, because corruption is usually not manifested at the high level, there is this so-called 'high corruption', but it also occurs at the lowest level. And at the lowest level it would be advisable to take some initiatives so that we can cut off these interfaces. For example, JEPs, which were such an idea, cut off the level of the transaction in the Criminal Register. When someone went to the Criminal Register and there was physical contact, the channel of corruption developed there. I think we will have the opportunity, if you take a legislative initiative, to be much more specific and to make more concrete proposals to you. Let me mention a second sentence, if I may. I'll just take a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u49	Sure, you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u50	A second proposal, therefore, is to propose that a provision should be included in the law impact analysis for the possible development of corruption in this regulation. Listen, this is a brilliant opportunity. In other words, you can consult with the Secretary-General of the Government and with the impact analysis, which is accompanying every law and which is new, but for the Members and for the many people - to say so - it is a text that gives essential information on the regulation. Because there is a number of issues - such as what impact the regulation has on competition, if that has been done - and because there is no specific information on corruption, there could be only one question added, which would facilitate the services that are being processed by the draft law, see or even ask - and this is developing reflexically on the part of the Members - if there are cases of corruption developing or if there is a risk of corruption being developed by the particular arrangement proposed by the Minister in question. There has been an equivalent in other European countries and in the context of the vigilance of the creation of reflexes on the part of the political world, but above all for citizens such issues help a great deal. Of course, the issues of consultation on the issues of transparency, I think, Minister, should also be discussed in detail, namely how it could be extended or better organised to consult on the draft laws, so that, the greater consultation there is, the less the scope for developing corruption. Thank you very much and apologise for my long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Cartassouli. Mr. Kartsoulis, Minister, has knowledge of international acceptance and recognition. It can be useful for you in the important legislative initiatives. It's good to meet you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u52	I know that, Mr President. I agree with you on what you said. Thank you and him, too. I would like to say to you, Mr Kartsouli, that all your proposals are in complete agreement and with optimism I look forward to your help when it comes to doing so. Because in our thoughts there is immediately after the two bills mentioned earlier in the drafting of a bill -'sweep', I would say - let me say - that it will be a question of corruption in general. I owe you, first of all, a specific answer to the question 'if cases of corruption are investigated' - namely - 'from Greeks who have companies abroad'. The answer is unequivocal: 'Yes, they are being investigated'. Finally, I would like to refer to one, in my view, very important issue, which, of course, relates to practical issues of dealing with corruption. As I had a duty, from the first things I could do, it was to invite all the representatives of the Internal Audit Service that exist in all the ministries, since they come under the newly established ministry. And when they came, the first question I asked them at our meeting was whether they can control their hierarchical heads. They looked at me like I came from Mars. After a smile of embarrassment or ironic, they explained to me that they could not even understand it, because most of the time - not only for reasons of substance, which can be easily imagined, but also for reasons of legality - they could neither understand that they would exercise control over cases of corruption upwards of the hierarchy, for the simple reason that the command of control would in one case be given by the Chief of Police, for example, by the Secretary-General of the Ministry or by the Minister himself. This thing is understood by everyone very easily, I think, that it turns all these mechanisms into paper dragons. Because if our only ambition is to control the low levels of any administrative agency, we are simply trying to catch very small fish, and, as you have said, I have often said, our aim is high level corruption. This is where the contracts, supplies of weapons systems and, in general, the major public works contracts are drawn up. That's the ones we want to target. And since we are not used to the Ministry, and I am not personally used to being inactive or waiting for legislation, I am pleased to present you with the first circular - a directive that I have adopted with this subject and to which I note - I will not go all over the circular, because I still do not want to violate the time that I have promised that I will always respect - that the control of corruption from these internal control services will also take place downwards and - above all - above all - on the hierarchy, to the hierarchical heads, including the minister. And you ask: has this directive ever been formulated in the decades that passed? At least I don't know her. It's for the first time. So there's the change, Mrs. Kartsouli. And I'm glad and - if you want - I'm proud of this government, who decided and did it. Because, in practice, all the plans are working. I respect both programs and everything. But in practice one must take action. So I testify to this circle of mine, too. And I am sure you will see it and I hope you will agree that something really changes in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr Kartsouli, for the very interesting things you mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-26-S1-commons.u54	With the agreement of the House at 11.31 p.m., the sitting on Monday, 29 June 2015, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
