ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC HORIZATION OF THE BULLETIN PLACE Continue the debate on the Government's Programmatic Declarations and vote to give Parliament's confidence in the government. At today's sitting, as the House unanimously decided at yesterday's sitting, Mr Georgios Germenis will receive the floor from the Golden Dawn which has replaced Mr Christos Hadjisavvas, Mr George Georgios Georgios, from the New Democracy, who has replaced Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis and Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, as well as Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou and Mr Maximos Charakopoulos. We will continue with ministers and MPs on the list. Following the speeches by the Members we have announced, the floor will be given by Minister Nikolaos Xydakis. Here, Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday the plenary ended late at night and it was decided by the few remaining parliamentary representatives that the debate in plenary should begin at 10 o'clock. But, Mr President, you forgot to inform the Transport Department, the prison service, so that the Golden Dawn can be found today at 10 o'clock in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Germenis, excuse me. I have been informed that your party has been informed in good time. That's what they told me from the Bureau. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u4	We were running all night to figure it out. Anyway. If that's the case, it's all right. You know that in Greece today there are still political prisoners and that the previous government had made sure that Members of Parliament were put in prison in a mafia way. I want to believe that the current government, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, will restore the illegality and restore the order to the Greek Parliament to smooth operation so that it will be the third political force of the country on the benches of the Parliament in which it belongs. I also heard some people say yesterday that they are the third constitutional force of the so-called 'democratic arc'. Listen, gentlemen: you need to recognise that a party fought politically with the Chief and his MPs behind the bars of the prison, with a telecard and a payphone. It is good, then, to recognise some things and a fair fight by some Members of Parliament, as opposed to the others who were in their districts. Also, because some "pads" journalists go out again write what they get down to their head, whatever they want as to why the Chief of Golden Dawn is not in the House, let me inform you that man is going through a virus. He's cold these cold days. That is why he is not present among us. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: In many of these we agree and we will support them. Let us see, of course, how many of these you will be bringing to the plenary session. Because that place is full of big words. But there is also some 'will' that for the People's Association - Golden Dawn is'red lines'. For example, we cannot agree - and we will do everything we can to convince you to the contrary - about what we have heard by the Prime Minister in terms of our Macedonia. You spoke about the name of Skopje, how you want to get a complex name with a geographical orientation. Look, gentlemen: Macedonia for thousands of years has been one and it is Greek and we should not negotiate on this, if we want to be called a serious state and a nation that honors the history and blood that has been spilled to call us today. We will simply recall the words of the great Ionian Dragoumi: "Be aware that if we run to save Macedonia, Macedonia will save us. It will save us from the stench where we roll, it will save us from modesty and from dying, it will deliver us from shameful sleep, it will free us. If we run to save Macedonia, we will be saved." Is it possible for the Greek state to agree whether it is called the northern Macedonia or the Republic of Macedonia? And what will its residents say? Macedons? And what language will they speak? Macedonian? Macedonia has been a donor sex since ancient times. What language were they talking about? What religion did they have? What blood was flowing in their veins? Whatever Herodotus, the Isocrates, said. Read a little. What right do we now have to change Macedonia, if it is north, if it is south, east or west? For our Cyprus, your position is Community, bizonal with one administration but with one citizenship. He doesn't find us at all, but at all, he agrees. What you are saying is nothing but recognition of the Attila feats, that is, what Turkey says. With our Cypriot brothers, we are a nation divided into two states. What we need to do is implement the doctrine of the single defence area of Greece - Cyprus, which, together with the adventitious EEZs of the two states, will be equivalent to de facto union of the island with the mother of Greece. You also talked about direct citizenship performance for second generation foreign children. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Obviously, gentlemen, you have confused citizenship with citizenship. This is only the case in Anglo-Saxon law, which speaks of the law of the territory used by America, which, as you know, is not considered a nation and has a history of just three hundred years. Our law, European law, speaks of blood law. On the European continent there are nations and not just peoples. So no European state gives citizenship but citizenship. Do you want to start again, or do you want to erode the Greek homogeneity? These, gentlemen, are dangerous things and they want a lot of attention. What you had to do is - because, as you know, we are a country of the old, and in twenty years we will be looking to find Greek native with the binoculars - to premium the new families, the third parties, the multitudes, to fill our country with Greeks and not to become a country of old men, which will once say that there were Greeks once. That's what I had to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Germenis. Mr George Georgios Georgios from New Democracy, who has replaced my colleague, Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President, and I would like to wish you success in fulfilling your duties. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past two days there has been a lot of talk of issues in many of the Greek society, but new data, new data and new visas have been brought forward in the last few days. Several of these are pleasant for the party of Officerial Response today, which claimed things that some today agree, even by 70%. Negotiation: A word that is at the heart of public dialogue not only in these days, but all the time. What is the point of negotiating? What exactly is it that the government is called upon to negotiate? What is it that the government and the opposition parties are calling on to support? The negotiation in relation to the debt in our country, the negotiation with regard to the programme which we were involved in, and the new programme, which is called for, has many elements that can be considered from a different basis, in relation to its ideological starting point, in relation to its economic viewpoint and assessment of things. A first question is debt itself. There is much room for discussion and - I think - a great deal of room for retreat from our partners. Because the debt issue, debt write-down - as the Prime Minister used the expression in his programme statements - is something that can be achieved, as debt write-down has to do with the repayment period and with the interest demanded. It is something that our partners seem to have the intention of retreating. It is something on which the previous government has laid the foundations and conditions - in fact with the November 2012 agreement, where there were specific prerequisites - so that further discussion can be held and that we can now actually ask for debt write-offs. But the big issue, which is actually the cause of the conflicts here today, is not about debt itself, it is about the prerequisites, it is about the necessary reforms, it is about what we agree that our country must do in the next period, about what the necessary institutional framework is, so that within the programme - as our European partners mean - we must be and at the same time give a development impetus to our country. The prerequisites, therefore, are the great subject of this negotiation, a great deal but, in my view, with little room for manoeuvre on the part of the government, as most of the reforms we are asked for - and for which we are glad that the government is concluding - are not just Europeans acquired, European practices, but are reasonable moves and reforms that exist throughout Europe and which are necessary for our country to lead it to normality, which, as an indirect result, will also have the effect of eliminating the debt, as will help modernise the state and then develop a productive activity, which is also the subject of it. In these prerequisites, therefore, for these necessary reforms, which I believe will be the great reason for the next period, we have unfortunately not seen a concrete realistic plan from the government's side. We have not seen a specific record of the necessary reforms, the necessary moves, either on the issue of privatisation or on the issue of insurance. On the contrary, I listened to the Prime Minister the other day saying 'we are not discussing increasing the pension limits'. Do you think that by putting a'red line' in increasing the pension limits we are realistic towards a Europe that has a retirement age much larger than ours? Do we have any arguments in favour of the European partners to fund and support an economy that continues to be retiring to some fifty-two and fifty-five and eight years, when this is not happening anywhere in Europe? We have heard nothing about universities, about free access to them, about the operation of universities. There are many prerequisites, many of the subjects of the debate, many of the burning issues which, if not resolved, will not be able to withstand and go to a programme which will lead to the normality that I have mentioned. Some issues or short-term issues of debt management, I think they will be resolved. They will be resolved by a political decision in a more general framework of commitments, but this general framework will be given a short time to specialise. The country's obligations in relation to the prerequisites need to be specified, not because this is an obligation that we will be called upon to serve, but because it has to be our conscious choice. That is what is needed for the country, that is the big question of this House, and this is where the House has to agree. Here the parties must end up with what reforms, in what real moves, actions, initiatives, are necessary so that Greece can move away from the convoys of decades, be able to deceive itself from ideologies of years and be able to become a normal European country. When the plan comes and is realistic and concrete, we will support it, as we support the negotiation that is currently taking place. We do not support it as Greek Members of Parliament, as Members of Parliament from a mere parliamentary duty. We support this effort as Greek citizens, as Greek parents who do not want the results of decades of steam, inability and populism of the political system to be burdened by our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr Georgioda. Mrs Manolakou Diamanto from the Communist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u8	Today's conflict reflects the rejection of the previous anti-population government of New Democracy - PASOK. The 'leaving' election has taken place. There is the fraudulent hope for philosophical politics. Do developments and programming declarations confirm this? But the "fly" of the anti-Fragic "Thessaloniki program" announced with serious "deductions" exclusively to workers and not to groups that have secured tax exemptions, privileges and profitability continue. Really, the basic salary of EUR 751 that will start over time what does it mean? It means that you give time to big businessmen with a law that you do not abolish - you use it - to generally pass individual contracts, of course with the threat of dismissal. We therefore expect an intensity of employers' aggression and a new reduction in labour costs. The businessmen are rubbing their hands! That is why repetitive praises, respect for the European Union's commitments, its principles and values. The sure thing is that the anti-grassroots, authoritarian, repressive framework of the European Union, which the consequences of our peoples and the peoples of the other Member States, will continue. You provided the first days that, despite the assurances of opposition to the embargo imposed on Russia, you signed its extension until September. So, can I tell you the following? The apple producers in Agia Larissa, where 80% of the green apples are produced - delicious - which are exportable to Russia made a massive gathering a week ago - together with your voters - and they decided that it was no longer going. "No waiting, no tolerance," they said. Because the extension of the embargo you signed means that the products will rot and at the same time children will be fast in school - I did not hear about lunches in schools - or the products will be sold at degrading prices to major traders who make use of your occasion and your political choices. So the victims of the embargo are both Greek products and farms. But this is the European Union and the commitments you have made to rename them to your 'options' and you said they were national sovereignty. Also, thousands of unpaid customs producers cannot wait and sugar factories, which were the largest agricultural industry in the country, cannot be kept closed, because this favours profit in the case of a specific French monopoly, which supports the local financial system. Even small and medium-sized farmers cannot wait for the payment of exotic VAT and so many others, so that their rights can be taken seriously by redistributing grazing land so that there can be the alibi of their persecution and so that the new common agricultural policy can be implemented quickly, namely the domination of large capitalist agricultural and livestock holdings. Neither the flooding people in Evros, Thessaly, Elias and other areas can wait, nor the unemployed, when 90% are not getting - since the current government does not guarantee them the unemployment benefit. How will these people live? With tolerance and waiting nobody lives. Thousands of workers in the shipyards have more than nine months to be paid for both in the ship repair area and in Perama. Unemployment is breaking bones. However, we have heard the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs speak in general and raise a number of problems, but not their solution, only wishes and, above all, keeping a fish silence on the provocative tax exemptions to shipowners and their great debts to the NAT. Of course, the privatisations and the port of Piraeus continue, under another name probably, after you have respect for the European Union's commitments and regulations and your advisor is the OECD toolbox. Mr. Hatzidakis' condolences fair last night! However, the talks of the Ministers and, above all, the Minister for Finance were also revealing. As he said, the budget does not change - yes, the one you voted against as Opposition - and you say in the popular layers 'be quiet and pay'. He even talked about the drug that the doctor is giving the country. But I don't understand why this doctor keeps worshiping him, despite the crowns for pride and dignity. Because the troika is the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund and not the technocrats you complain about. They don't make their heads. Commands are being implemented. Finally, "fight the samari and not the donkey", as the people's proverb says, because you want to blur your sympathy with capitalist centers, their unpopular hard policies for the peoples. And of course, they have conflicts and competition and compromises between them. You talked about dignity. For us dignity, pride, patriotism today is to be part of and fight for the organization of the labour and popular movement, to claim to cover all losses, not to compromise with the crusts and to make it possible to pass on the wealth produced by work in the service of society and the service of people's needs, extinguishing capitalist property and profit. So there is hope for popular prosperity. In this sense, there may have been a visit to the Columbia of the former EBA - ESRB, but remember that the fighters who were tortured fought fought against the exploiters and the Americans who care for peoples. That is why the criticism of the Communist Party of Greece is not cruel. It is sincere, honest and mostly classic from the point of view of the working class and the popular strata. That's why it hurts, because it reveals, tears up, fights for the fairness of the people. We are therefore voting against the continuation of anti-grassroots policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 4th School of Alimos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague from PASOK, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we wish the country a success in the negotiations. The PASOK wanted and could support more actively if the government did not deny national understanding and the establishment of a national negotiating team. The Prime Minister said it needed a six-month extension, not a two-month extension of the Memorandum, but he does not ask for it and will seek a six-month bridge agreement. Good development, but don't keep lying. They don't need to. The turn you do is what the citizens were asking for, so that the country won't move to the rocks. You say "no" in the troika, but meet with Tomsen, Vizer and Costello, and secretly, without informing us exactly what you're talking about with them. Mr. Varoufakis, where the troika would leave for reasons of national sovereignty, I suppose Task Force of the known Mr. Reichenbach is staying, as Mr. Katrugalos announced. You brought the Americans too. They weren't here until now. You are bringing the OECD along with its toolbox and it will also monitor us in order to complete 70% of the Memorandum, with which you have said you agree. It's going well. In addition, you said you would bring five hundred with six hundred German tax collectors - you promised it in Symble - to collect the taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, these are samples. The most serious of the wrong strategy, however, which the government is currently doing, is entanglement in one-thematic employment with public debt. Before the negotiations began, the so-called 'assus', which is the International Conference and the unilateral deletion of the debt or remission of most of the debt, was lifted very quickly. It now seems to be sacrificing the prospect of the country's credit and financial security. How will economic recovery and growth proceed following the closure of the real cycle and the elimination of deficits, if we do not use the resources of the NRP, the resources of the development part of the Common Agricultural Policy, the Juncker package? How, without funding, will we support productive restructuring, the real economy and entrepreneurship? How will new jobs and new jobs be created without funding the country, without funding the real economy? Mr Tsipras spoke an hour and a half, and he did not say a word about agricultural production, the new CAP and farmers, nor about tourism and its connection to the agri-food sector. Ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to issues relating to the response of the humanitarian crisis, I would like to inform you that the immediate intervention plan for the treatment of the cold and support for the homeless in these difficult hours out there is under way. In addition to 1595 concerning the Athens region, there is also the line 197 concerning the country as a whole. And indeed, there should be information for the citizens and more active involvement of self-government within this project. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's programme statements have announced individual measures to deal with the impact of the crisis and, indeed, as bricks and horns, irreversibly thrown away. In order to respond effectively, however, a comprehensive plan is needed. Last year at the Ministry we worked on it. At its initiative, Greece now has a comprehensive national strategy on social protection and integration with specific funding resources, national and European. I will table the text of the national strategy. I shall also present the response from the European Commission, which is now the Greek-European Union agreement on social protection by 2020. Our policy aims to ensure a decent standard of living. Instead of feeding the coupons and precise compassions that the Prime Minister will share with Mrs Fotou, we are proposing to tighten up the social protection network with the sustainable reform of the social state, so that it will be able to deal with the major problems of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the national strategy has already begun. It has a basic pillar of guaranteed social income, the treatment of extreme poverty and child poverty. I'll testify the program. It already applies to thirteen municipalities. And the question is: From 1 July, as for seven hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens, will continue for all of Greece? Are you going to continue with it or are you going to repeal it? We have three pillars of the programme, financial support, services and goods, but above all actions, promotion, cooperation, as the only way out for dealing with poverty. European assist ance fund for the most deprived. I'm going to testify the operational plan we submitted in September for a hundred sixty-two thousand families. I will submit the approval of the programme on 15 December by the European Commission with 330 million guaranteed and at our disposal from 1-01-2015. I will table a call for consultation in order to create a social partnership between the state, self-government, civil society, the church, to provide support and to implement the programme. We have not heard a word from the Prime Minister about the programme. I am informing that until the Fund's activation we have concluded a cooperation agreement with the church, regions and other bodies for food supply with the primary surplus. The primary surplus is also financed, ‘House and Reintegration’. I will testify to the invitation, the guide to the implementation of the programme and the assignment of it to sixty-two bodies, so that they can find a roof, but also work by our fellow citizens who have been overthrown and spent in this range of extreme poverty and homelessness. New child benefits for six hundred and fifty thousand families. Will the government go on strengthening the institution and increasing the allowance, as envisaged in support of all couples with children and dealing with child poverty? Also, access to quality social care services with the support of all successful social structures. For the "Help at Home" programme, we ensured its viability and function, without any time constraints with two laws. I'll file the orders. At the second "Help at home" conference, SYRIZA's spokesman announced the permanentization of workers, but in the programming statements. Nothing about Daycare Centers, Elderly. No report on Creative Employment Centres for Children, Disabled Persons' Disabled Persons. For all these structures, however, we have ensured the continuation from the state budget until September 2015 and then their integration into the regional NSRPs. Eighty-five thousand children joined the children and baby stations this year. There's gonna be a hundred thousand in the new year. Are you going to give the funding or are you taking it elsewhere? Plan for Autonomous Living of Persons with Disabilities, support for open structures, prevention - integration into institutions and dehabilitation. Are you going to continue the program? The funding for the movement of small and medium-sized enterprises and other social groups has been entered in the budget. It is sufficient to adopt the relevant Ministerial Decisions. You're gonna publish them? They should already have been issued. For the next period, the publication of the uninsured books for access to the health system by more than a thousand JEPs in the country and not just by the sixty three municipalities had been scheduled. Are you going to postpone or continue? Ladies and gentlemen, these must be the priorities to tackle the impact of the crisis in the context of the national strategy. This work on social protection is a contribution by the PASOK in this area. The choice of the downgrading of what we have delivered in the context of the programming declarations, despite the government's majorities, raises questions. Is it accidental that only the regions controlled by SYRIZA have not proceeded with the development of a regional strategy? Does the Prime Minister not know of the existence of a national strategy on social protection and integration? Didn't Mrs. Fotou inform him of whom I gave a complete briefing file? He knows her, but he doesn't like her? He knows her, he likes it, but doesn't he want to admit that the announcements in Thessaloniki concern only fragmentary measures? In any case, I note the country's obligation to submit by 30 April 2015 the national strategic plan. I was informed yesterday that the relevant Minister present does not leave the OAS, despite the approval of the AACC, to obtain the notice of fifty-two thousand for public work. Is that a government decision? Where's the money going? I also hear that the work programme for the reintegration of those benefiting from the Guaranteed Social Income Programme will not be implemented by the Minister himself. Where's the money going? Ladies and gentlemen, it was a pleasant surprise to me that Mr Tsipras' reference to the Government's intention to cooperate with the International Labour Organisation, ILO. Mr Vardakis, I would remind you that this cooperation has begun since April with the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs of the Parliament and the presence of the Director-General of the ILO, with a view to restarting social dialogue and the institutional restoration of collective bargaining. The first major step has already been taken in Geneva. I am pleased that the negative attitude of SYRIZA then turned into an announcement of our own initiatives. I hope that, over time, everything we have created will be exploited instead of being demolished in the name of party feasibility. Greece and society are above party interest. We need responsibility and national understanding. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. I had already announced my colleague, Mr Harakopoulos, but I noticed that I had violated the harmonious rotation of Members of Parliament. Therefore, you fall, Mr Harakopoulos. The speech is given by the Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Nikolaos Xydakis for fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address the Greek Parliament, the National Representation and through this step to the Greek people, that is to say, the one who brought us all in here. But apart from the thrill, I already feel the burden of historical responsibility, this responsibility that we all feel in this Chamber. I feel the historical responsibility of the government of which I am a member, to rescue society and to reconstruct the country, to reconstruct public administration, economy, foreign policy and culture. The Prime Minister spoke in his speech last night, with the government's planning position, about cultural regeneration. Today I'm going to try to describe what he meant. In short, then, we want to create the conditions for a new spring in Greece, a spring of culture with freedom, unworthy religion, creativity, confidence, authenticity and imagination. These will be the features of the 2015 cultural spring. To move towards cultural spring we need a new model based on principles and a certain targeting. Our basic principles will be transparency and dignity, respect for the free expression, spiritual and artistic powers of the country. Our basic admission is the public nature of cultural heritage, without the monumental compulsions to divest public property and reduce the protection of cultural heritage. Our basic admission is to link culture directly and functionally, to sustainable development and to social life as a whole. In this context of free expression, we seek and succeed already in not making ideological abuses of archaeology, history, science. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our primary objective is to create a cultural identity with time and authenticity, a cultural identity capable of inspiring confidence and dynamism to the citizens, to bring all the self-awareness of a historic people, such as the Greek people, but without levering towards over-refillment or minorityism. Our goal is an identity that will include originality and self - control, a mere ancientity, creativity, invention, but not consumerism and greed, the boredom of fashion and the daily life - style. The Ministry of Culture, without cycling and imposing ideas and beliefs, is called upon to serve the Greek culture, ancient and modern, older and younger, reason and popular, high and everyday culture, without discrimination and lasting prosperity, as an organic and living all that is constantly spread in public life, forming the spirit of individual and collective. Our culture is insoluble in the ancient Greek heritage and the heritage of Byzantium and the Middle Ages, the popular poetry, the popular song, the high poetry of Solomos and Nobels of the generation of the '30s, the painting of Theophilus and the painting of Papaloukas, the architecture of Pioneer and Constantinidis, as well as the unauthorized architecture of the anonymous master in the chapel. Culture is goodness, courtesy and economy in life. In this respect, we believe that culture does not only reside in museums and libraries. Inhabits and stems from them, on the city avenues and in the village squares, in the public space and at meetings, wherever there are people. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said about identity, about universality, about dispersal of culture and wealth. Culture in a time of crisis is a compass of life, but it can also be a steam-driven development machine. Our aim is to culture in its various manifestations to constantly strengthen us with its commendable loads, to enrich us in the symbolic field, but also to provide opportunities for the production of wealth material, opportunities for growth and employment. Culture can and must produce wealth both in the symbolic field and in the material field. Our aim is to use the rich cultural deposits to change the country's stereotype representations abroad. Our aim is to create, consolidate, develop, open up new roads in the diplomatic field, build diplomatic relations with a vehicle of culture. Our aim is to use the potential of the state structures of the Ministry of Culture and Education, not only for the continuation of works on cultural heritage, but also for the framework and support of contemporary artistic creation, as well as for the establishment and promotion of new ways of financing. Our aim is to rectify everything useful that has been swallowed and damaged, but also to map the needs for new rationalisation projects. Our aim is to set up supportive frameworks for the production of cultural works by new collectives of creators, mainly in the field of contemporary artistic creation, but also in the development of innovative products with high added value, in the field of cultural heritage and contemporary culture. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point, before I move on to some specific positions, let me briefly refer to priorities, to what is a precondition for the cultural spring. Road: Our first priority is to solve operational and structural problems, arising from the implementation of the new agency, an agency that has not been able to implement and which already has gaps and difficulties in its implementation. Our priority is to decentralise work on the regional structures of the Ministry of Culture, but also to improve communication between the Ministry and the citizen. In this context, we must add as important the establishment of objective criteria for the aptitude and unbiased appointment of the members of the two central organs of the Ministry of Culture, the Central Archaeological Council and the Council of Modern Monuments. The second priority is to make immediate use of all possibilities provided by the new National Reference Strategic Framework, the ESRB, to support existing structures, to close the work on existing projects, as well as strategic options for the new era. The third priority is the development of a new extroverted policy with an emphasis on cultural diplomacy to strengthen the country. We also incorporate into it the development of a structured national return policy, not only of the Parthenon marbles, but also of all the systematic interventions made and made to return antiquities. The fourth priority is active interconnection and synergies of culture with other areas, such as education, tourism, development, work and coexistence with local government. Based on these conditions, we move forward in the implementation of our programme to culture in four areas of action: cultural heritage, contemporary culture, employment and education. Ladies and gentlemen, the first area of action concerns cultural heritage. The Greek citizens are well aware that we are stepping on a wide and solid basis of collective representations, a milestone of a rich historical path, but often an inhibiting part of our future. We will see our cultural heritage as a head office for a new reading of this identity, but also for the strengthening of a live dialogue on the international round. I will tell you a few measures that we intend to start in the next few months, following the completion of the programming declarations and the taking up of our duties. In the cultural heritage we move forward in the protection and promotion of archaeological sites with a follow-up to the works that have been launched and, above all, with the creation of paths of cultural interest, with which we will link spaces and highlight geographical units. Our aim is to stimulate the visibility, with concrete actions of attraction to the public and the stimulation of cultural tourism. In this context, we will quickly proceed to the completion of the archaeological register, a project which has been pending for years and which will have a substantial developmental character. A central point in the exploitation of cultural heritage and its interconnection with the production of primary wealth is the strengthening, in essence, of a body which is a productive arm of the Ministry of Culture, the Archaeological Resources and Appropriations Fund. There is huge margin and infinite possibilities to develop innovative products, through digital technology, through rationalisation of sales, by enriching and strengthening sales items, by establishing and extending the online ticket with the establishment of electronic stores for sale. In general, the Archaeological Resources Fund can spread its revenues very easily and become the production engine of the Ministry of Culture. Second area of action, modern culture. For us, the citizen is at the heart of cultural production. Beyond the legacy we seek to open the Ventalia of modern creation, since we believe that this place has powers beyond the glory and the climax of the past and has much to say, especially in this critical period. So we will try to upgrade the existing spaces by making use of all the inactive stock and at the same time, by decentralising modern culture, we will try to provide infrastructure, networks and facilities to young creators, new artists, at a time when there may be no money, but there are other things that are very necessary for young creators: spaces, infrastructures, networks, information. We will directly support all the critical institutions of national scope, such as the National Theatre, the National Opera, the Hellenic Cinema Center and, at the same time, with a special strategy of extroversion, the modern wealth produced will disperse, it will be diffused in the international environment. A third area of action that I will say a little in the short term, but which is of great importance, is the complexity, interconnection of culture and employment. Culture is internationally one of the basic activities of wealth production, and indeed, of prestige, scope and duration that can support high-demand employment and long-lasting. That is why we will strengthen employment, wherever possible, both in the areas of self-sufficient works, which are many in the Ministry of Culture and in areas of direct involvement with culture, such as tourism. In this area, we will also work closely with the new Minister for Labour, Mrs Antonopoulou, who has taken over the issue of growth - employment, to find new solutions to the stimulation of work. The fourth area of action which favours the new structure of the Ministry of Education and Culture is the cooperation of culture, cultural production and research. We will create synergies with the Special Deputy Minister for Research, Mr Foakis and the General Secretariat for Research in the development of innovation programmes for innovative cultural products. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We will use the rich experience of researchers and technicians to channel the new ESRB resources to cultural and creative entrepreneurship projects. I will close with this: in difficult times culture has been a driver. In the difficult years of occupation, the poet Angelos Sicilyanos raised Greece over the coffin of Kostis Palamas. In difficult times civilization has always been the driver and arrogant of the Greek people. We are a people of poets, philosophers, traders, travelers, if necessary, warriors. Even under pressure, even at the expense of a great historical need, we now have the opportunity to see things again from the beginning and to give a new breath. So we regain the thread from the interrupted spring of 1960, the famous "lost Spring" of the Circa Army. We aspire to be part - all of us - of the 2015 spring, the one that comes, the one that started and to live as protagonists with joy and responsibility. Write the story of our generation, spring 2015! Culture is the vehicle for this new era. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of visits. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the southern theory, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of the Chamber of Deputies VENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven members of the 3rd KAPI Argyroupoli. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament wish you health and long-term health. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, a colleague from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 January the Greek people made a choice. He commanded political forces, and above all SYRIZA, who promised a different approach to the country's huge economic problem. The previous government, in adverse circumstances, sought to lay the foundations for exiting the memoranda and the comitology. In these two and a half years despite mistakes and stutters, steps have been taken in the right direction. The distance between 2012 and today is indeed noteworthy and therefore it is unfair for the Prime Minister to speak of 'burned seeds', according to the well-known verb of the new government, which says he received 'burned land'. Election, as we had a duty, warned of the risk involved in a frontal confrontation with lenders. We have talked about the undeniable need to continue our participation in the European Union without questioning the conquests and sacrifices of the Greek people. But we're not convinced at all. The citizens, apparently tired of the prolonged austerity policy, disappointed by the delay of a tangible change, perhaps indignant by unfair taxation, have decided, despite the dangers, to try another way. We now have a new reality. From the first moment it became clear that the difficulties of the new government in convincing partners and markets will be large, much more so that its election announcements were prepared to return to past crisis practices. Fortunately, shifts to a more realistic perspective have already been recorded and this finding, believe me, has no dose of rejoicing or reproach. I think that it is a maximum political mistake to display these country-critical hours of petty repellent or mystical practices. This place, ladies and gentlemen, has unfortunately been diagnosed by barren party controversy. He has paid dearly for the sterile opposition conflicts. I think it's time to draw a line with the past, because what's important is the country's salvation. So one is the right attitude, that of objective criticism. That is why we are anxious at the progress of negotiations with the partners, because the break-up messages implied by the Prime Minister in his speech may put us into great adventures. Exercising a proud policy is not a question of easy rhetoric, but of a painful effort based on realism. It is therefore encouraging that the Prime Minister recognised that the surpluses or even the balanced budget are a factor in strengthening national sovereignty. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that if there are no real reforms, the country will not go forward. It will remain the great patient of the European Union. Return to the age of credit and outstanding benefits does not exist. And as long as, Minister, you come to friction with the day-to-day hard reality, you will also discover, as the Prime Minister discovered the need to pay the public's obligations towards the public and already, by abandoning the "I don't pay", join the "Everyone in the Fund". Apart from trophies or any other supervisory mechanism that is proposing one or the other, the truth is that we need a new development model. We need a turn in real production. That's the big bet of the next decade. I was therefore very concerned about the fact that in the programme statements nothing was heard by the Prime Minister about primary production, farmers and farmers. I hope it is not an indication of the low hierarchy you have in the agricultural world, which has brought you first in the recent elections. Without support for agriculture and livestock, however, serious development cannot be achieved, only'supplier development' and we have seen what the end was. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to an issue that has caused disturbance a year ago and has also been the cause of my resignation from the position of Deputy Minister for Rural Development. I am talking about the life expectancy of milk, a measure proposed by the OECD toolbox, which was presented in Greece as the Moses plates, is supposed to reduce the price of milk to the consumer. Finally, the price on the shelf was not reduced, rather increased, while the producer suffered injury from the application of the measure. It is therefore time for the measure to be reviewed and for its cancellation to proceed. After all, you committed yourself in his vote. I hope you didn't forget her. Of course, I welcome the announcements of the fight against all kinds of interactive and corruption phenomena, the elimination of all kinds of cartels, but also the strengthening of transparency. I just hope there are no air words left. I also share the intention to give responsibility to those who have proved themselves to be in this position. However, it is enough that these government procedures do not represent a sight for the people, in the absence of bread. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the government will overcome its election obsessions and land quickly in reality. Greece's future cannot be isolation and Balkan provincialism. Our stay in the European family must be unnegotiable. In this direction, everyone, from the position which the Greek people have taken him, must give all their powers so that we can succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Harakopoulos, thank you. Mr Dermitzakis Konstantinos will be followed by Mr Kefaloyannis Ioannis from New Democracy and will be addressed to the House after Mrs Maria Kollias, State Secretary for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the leap years of the memorial and destructive austerity, the 'terrestrial years', which unjust and barbarism passed like a throat, as a dark nightmare by tearing down and leveling the lives and dreams of the Greeks, were over on the 25th of January. Our people, with a clear mandate, defeating the fear and danger, which a subordinated government has used as a last resort, since it had no arguments to raise, gave the same solution to the drama and, at the same time, opened the way for the new course, the new era and the mandate of the Government of national salvation to implement its programme and to get the country out of the stature and trap that had led it. It was five years ago that created a generalized lunar landscape everywhere: economic impoverishment, poverty, unemployment, debt surge, recession, the destruction of social goods in social security, health, education, work. Seriously small- and medium-sized professionals, popular mattresses and youth were targeted. The nightmare's over. The smile comes back to people's faces. The carved Greece feels proud again. We are a sovereign state. They're listening. We are an equal member of a European Union and not a pariah. For the first time, there has been a real and substantial negotiation. A people who have given the lights of civilization, democracy, science and knowledge to humanity cannot be destroyed in order to impose markets, so that barbarity may prevail. It's not just our problem. It's pan-European. European solidarity is not given with loans that we are returning, without Greece getting a little breath. We need to get to growth, stop austerity and sewing, deal with the humanitarian crisis, start the wheel of the economy, start producing the country, become food-sufficient. So that's enough! The nurture on people's neck must leave, our people must breathe. We've got the right thing to do with us. We have with us a people who are engraved and who ask for their pride, a people who carry a three-year-old history of struggles and we have this sacred legacy with us, the generations of fighters who have been sacrificed for ideals and values. We'll make it. We'll keep hope alive. I would like to make a special reference to the important area of public health, which was one of the first to be targeted with particular barbarism in order to freely invade the major private interests. We have to restore immediate wounds that bleed and shortcomings in medical, nursing and administrative staff, deficiencies that endanger the lives and safety of citizens themselves. There are extreme cases and I have the image of Lassithi, the county I come from, a county isolated, a lousy road network. They left Sitia without cardiologists, Ierapetra without pathologists, Agios Nikolaos without pediatricians. This misery poses dangers. In the field of medical care, they targeted and dissolved the small medium-sized pharmacy, which was always next to the patient, while at the same time shifting the pharmacy expenditure on the backs of the insured. At the same time, with the uncontrolled introduction of cheap generics, which produce large multinationals, the Greek pharmaceutical industry was critically hit. In cooperation and in consultation with all health institutions, we must change the landscape with immediate measures, with the abolition of the EUR 5 in hospitals, with the abolition of EUR 1 per prescription, with the reduction of the participation of those who are insured in particular in chronic illnesses, with legislation guaranteeing the right to sell only from the pharmacies the non-prescribed medicines, because they are medicines and those that have side effects, with the reintroduction of the hours at the pharmacies, with a higher rate of inmates, in consultation with the Pan-Hellenic Pharmacopoeia and the local associations, with control mechanisms for the proper, quality control and control of the bioequivalence of the genes, with measures to support the Greek pharmaceutical industry. I shall also make a brief reference to rural development, always having the image of my region, the Lassithi Prefecture, with the enormous potential which, unfortunately, remain untapped in both early horticultural and traditional products. With the support of the rural world, with immediate measures to reduce production costs, to change the tax system, to reorganise the way in which products are handled and a friendly banking system for the reorganisation and development of cooperatives can bring the countryside back to life, to turn our country into a huge garden where cheap and quality products will be produced. Exports can also be increased and rural development is a key lever for growth, recovery and re-launching of the economy. Some of the previous Members have said - if I am not cheating on Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Charakopoulos - that the Prime Minister did not mention anything about rural development, to create impressions, and they know very well that the relevant ministers will do so. But one could say that their own governments have destroyed the rural world, the productive fabric of our country, have devastated the countryside. And if you continued to apply this policy, if you were to rule today, the farmers would soon be a sign of extinction. Ladies and gentlemen, the programming statements announced by the Prime Minister and Ministers are the starting point for a different course of the country with hope and perspective. The comparative advantages of the country and the enormous potential of our people are exploited in a climate that is civil-friendly. The scenery changes radically and becomes bright and hopeful. In the economy an important parameter is the psychological factor and we've already been at this stage. Our will is and remains uncircumcised: we do not retreat from our commitments. We will serve with all our powers, with determination, with reason and a dream of our people and will apply the mandate it gave us on 25 January. These elections have already brought about a huge gain for our people: unity, racing, vigilance, participation, determination to take fate in their hands, to be at the forefront. They support this nationwide struggle, this great effort by the government of national salvation, because they realize that this government expresses and serves and respects the people's mandate, popular sovereignty and the Constitution of our country. That's why this battle and all the battles that come will be won. This is the great weapon of Greece at this critical hour: The people's factor, the irrevocable will of an entire people to be sovereign, finally to perpetuate their country and determine their future. Let me begin at this point, perhaps influenced by the very important speech of the Minister of Culture, and even though he sounds unprecedented, to tell you some points from an unknown poem, called the "Bank": "This is the great brightness of the place, the rocks, the radiation and the glow of the people targeted, the poets, the hikers, the seamen and the eternal travellers, all this is all the more expensive, the important things that cannot be sold in the international living room. Intangible, intangible, it is impossible to assess on the basis of current market prices. Thus, undisturbedly, grievously, this place is this sacred and poets, the Greeks - because all Greeks are poets - will travel in time, in a wonderful journey where the small ones really do not fit, nor those who unjustly strive to encapsulate the spirit in frames and solid metal circus". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr Dermitzakis, especially for the poem. We have other honorary attractions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty students and students and four teachers from the 1st section of the 3rd High School of Nikias. We welcome you to the House and wish you good progress and health. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy has the floor. Immediately after the speech, Mrs Maria Kollia - Tsarouha, State Secretary for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction will be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to wish you a success in your duties, since I have been addressing you for the first time since the Step. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious from the previous reading of the Prime Minister's Programming Declarations that the government chooses a tough and uncompromising line with our partners, a strategy which in advance prohibits any honest compromise. It is also obvious that the rhetoric it chooses to express its positions leaves little room for diplomatic manoeuvre and folding. The government's Programmatic Declarations dominated by the constant tactics of "all or nothing" that pre-elected the political reason for today's government, a political reason which, unfortunately, faces any other approach to the relationship with our partners and lenders as a sign of subjection and self-interest. As good as someone is against the new government, it is very difficult to see a structured proposal to exit the crisis, which will come in the next few days at the negotiating table. But to make something clear at the outset: both personally and as a party we really want the new government to succeed in continuing negotiations with the European partners. I think that every genuine patriot, regardless of political and party origin and regardless of the composition of the government, seeks his country to go well. And I'd say, I wish you had shown the same political generosity as opposition to the previous government. Because I think there is no single human being who accepts that the previous government has done everything wrong. I will, however, stand by two points which, in my opinion, show the government's negotiative weakness, in the hope that it will proceed in the next few days to corrective action, for the sake of our country. It's supposed to be the government's central negotiating argument that we're not asking for money, but for time. In fact, it has come to denounce the outgoing government that it has not extended the current programme for a six-month period, preferring the two-month extension - allegedly - to put the SYRIZA in a difficult position vis-à-vis the European partners. The question, however, is this: does SYRIZA really want the Memorandum to be extended for six months, why not ask Europeans? And if the six-month extension from the previous government had been accepted, what would SYRIZA do today? Would he support this choice, or would he denounce the outgoing government for sedition and perpetuation of monumental policies? Would it or not complete the evaluation of the current programme? And most importantly, what would change in the country's financing strategy, which will take about 15 billion in the next few years? Do not forget that just two months ago and specifically on December 12th, SYRIZA Secretary Vitsas said he does not even recognize the two-month extension of the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, the time that the Minister for Finance is asking for is nothing but money. The proposal for a bridge programme is only a request for funding from our partners, an indirect funding this time, by raising funds from the banking system, by returning profits from the Greek bonds held by the European Central Bank and by increasing the issue of interest-rate notes. Instead of throwing the burden of the negotiations on the bypass of some absurd prerequisites for the current evaluation, completing the current programme and escaping the troika once and for all, as the previous government has attempted, the current government is caught in the election announcements on the abolition of the memorandum, on a purely theoretical economic exercise, spending valuable time and jeopardising what our country has so far conquered. But what we are living today is neither an exercise nor a theory of games. We were pleased to hear the Minister of Finance yesterday turn to realism, a cybism in relation to the Prime Minister's earlier statements, perhaps because Mr Tsipras' programme statements had as audiences the interior of the country and perhaps the interior of this Chamber, while those of Mr Varoufakis the outside and those with whom he would be sitting tomorrow at the negotiating table. Mr Varoufakis said that the government will not break the memorandum, as promised by election, but will include 70% of this in the new bridge agreement. It will, in fact, work with the head of the OECD, Mr Gurias, for drawing up a reform programme and for its faithful implementation, when we all remember that SYRIZA was electionfully talking about abolishing the OECD toolbox. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very few days' time, the government has attempted to respond to a fundamental obligation: to create and present to Greek citizens and our partners a structured plan to exit the crisis and relocate our country, which did not succeed either in the two and a half years that were in the opposition or, of course, in the election process. It is difficult, of course, to describe as a "programme" the selective slash of election announcements, mainly because there is no answer to its funding. The Prime Minister yesterday made a beautiful report of ideas, which, although it contains very statisticism, was theoretically satisfied with the majority of Greek citizens, but with this asterisk: there was no mention of how this programme would be implemented, with what money and what timetable. That is why the government and the Prime Minister must personally in the next few days, put forward convincing arguments on how he intends to implement his election commitments in the context of balanced budgets, while maintaining primary surpluses. That is why I am not going to vote for the vote of confidence in the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. As far as the country as a whole is concerned, we are in a race. We don't have the luxury of time, but I don't think we need it. We know, I think, very well what we have to do. And we have to do it. And the sooner we move, the faster and bigger we will be the benefits for our country, which I think we need them more than ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. The reason for nine minutes is the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Maria Collias - Charuha. Ilias Panagiotaros will follow from the Golden Dawn and then Mr. Paulakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I wish you and the Bureau a good mandate in this new work. You will understand how difficult it is at one time to put it with colleagues to keep time and to be consistent in the proper parliamentary dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, in the question of who is responsible for what we are experiencing today, I would like to answer by saying that the responsibility for this is a burden on all of us. It is not of the slightest importance that who is responsible for less or less. Such an approach has led us to the situation we are in today. They all hid behind this, 'it is not our responsibility'. This practice has closed its cycle. What goes on does not have to do, so much with the performance of responsibilities - although it must be done and done - but with the fact that this government has a duty to raise the full burden of the choices of all the irresponsible - incumbents of the past. The new era, the 'new spring' as Mr Xydakis said poetically, let us start by making its mark, making the self-evident things that had to be done, with the self-evident priorities to be given as a mark of its policy and finally respecting the fact that this people had once learned to walk with dignity. To those who still have second thoughts, I would like to say that they have to accept that the new Prime Minister of the country, Alexios Tsipras, has been given a strong mandate to implement his programme. For relations between the two government partners only time will prove - and I am not referring to leaderships - that this is a national negotiation and social relief government, where the small partner who touches 5% is respected, especially when, from the outset, it has been public, without background, defined its red lines as inviolable and unnegotiable. There is a meaningless criticism of how we, the Independent Greeks, the centreright ones, can have the same walk with the left ones. We have chosen to be part of the common effort in the name of the dignity of the Greeks. It was our only choice. When it comes to saving the country, personal strategies don't fit in. They say that to give birth to the new one, we should leave time to the old one. Societies - unfortunately for some - have specified their future. In the days of selfishness now, the truth cannot be silenced. We agree that our country should stop living with foreign loans, loan-creating money that bind the next generations of Greeks. If we do not do this, as specified, everything would have been sold out and we would have ended up in debt colony or a protectorate, as some people can see they wanted. When you do not understand - as any Greek housewive knows in this country - that selling from selling has a huge difference, then you are not in a position to defend the interests of your country. When you do not preserve and protect your right to have your own production and hence your own income, then you put the very national sovereignty of your country in direct danger. When you don't feel that your policies have created armies of desperate citizens, that thousands of young people have left their country and are embarrassed to look elsewhere for their fate, you should start to wonder: ultimately, who are you serving? This place paid dearly, both the danger and the irresponsible, without reflection, promises. The ideological terms of the past have been overcome. The political system has been punished exemplarily, because it proved impossible not only to face the crisis, but because it was unable to develop a way out. It has been written and exactly attributed to our choice: Or we will reconcile the future of the dependent province or live up to dignity. Those who are still today insisting on separating Greeks into monumental and non-European, populists, extreme right-wing, left-wing, left-wing people do not serve their homeland. They offend all Greeks because they reproduce their terms yesterday and degrade the public dialogue itself. Let them finally learn that impoverishment of political arguments always leads to personal attacks. Those who invest in catastrophe, know that they will also be overcome by developments, but they will also be completely marginalised. Our common interest is that the negotiations should succeed. That determines their position. We are asking for everyone to stand by us and create a common front, so that we can achieve better conditions. Let them stand alongside us in the joint finding that reforms are needed, that we need to have a fair tax system, that we need to crush tax evasion. Let us build a stiff national front behind and beside the government in its pragmatic pursuits, but also with criticism of its strangles. We are calling for a decent agreement with our partners. And let them themselves admit their own responsibilities for the situation that was inherited with regard to the economy, public finances, insurance and much more. Let them recognize that we have paid five times the original amount of our borrowings, while they have made us pay two more with a damaged economy. This new government must respect those who support it, but also feel the burden that many hopes have been placed on it, even those who did not vote on it. Recently, ladies and gentlemen, he protested at the Headquarters of Thessaloniki a student delegation where they were accepted. Their dormant homes have no heating. And while the administration rightly decides on me - the suspension of their function for the purpose of their protection, the students rightly demand state support. The former Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace - I will say the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace - was a regional and multi-thematic ministry, limited to a part of the Greek territory and multi-thematic regarding the objects of its competence. How it should have been for it to function as a final instrument for the activation and harmonisation of government policy in Macedonia and Thrace, I will explain this immediately below, after asking some specific questions to everyone, since much has been said and more has already been written - and they are already written in Thessaloniki - about the necessity or not of its existence. See the map, ladies and gentlemen, our neighbours. Study his story. Stand by the marginalization of remote areas. Do not go beyond his symbolisms unfoundedly. Keep an eye on the Panagia Perivoli, the Athonite Heritage and the Ark of Orthodoxy. Rediscover the region's comparative advantages and potential. Enable the highest institutions and their human resources. Do not go beyond the country's extroversion or the ultimate role it can perform. Take care of the balanced development of the regions in its area of responsibility. Answer whether a coordinating role of his carriers from Florina to Evros is required. It is only then that you will answer whether there should be, but whether it should be a model of regional development that proves in practice the government decentralisation that remains the great concern of our country. If we are interested in improving the quality of life of our fellow citizens, but also if you want to act as a pillar of growth and recovery of the economy, in order to be able to promote investment, support the market in the wider area of Northern Greece, then support it so that it can assume sole supervision of the bodies based in Thessaloniki and Northern Greece, whose function and work are relevant to its wider region. Protect Alexandria Innovation Zone, its most important supervised bodies, their importance and what they have achieved so far. Has anyone believed in the possibilities of the Directorate for International Balkan Relations? Is the protection of the keepers touching us? If you abandon it, it will erase, but you take responsibility for this choice. During the political approach of the Independent Greeks, the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace is able to become an important tool for the development of Macedonia and Thrace, but only with an upgraded role and enhanced responsibilities. Strengthen Thessaloniki's leading role in the Balkan area. Promote cooperation with the Balkan and Black Sea countries. Let Northern Greece become a model of regional development, strengthening its executive role in decision-making, solving problems, adopting and making available appropriations, but mainly strengthening its control role. Transfer responsibilities of development law, take full responsibility for market surveillance, land borders in the northern country. Give him a more active role in supervising co-financed programmes. I repeat: if it is not strengthened, it will fall under constant marginalisation. The inclusion of a number of officials of the Ministry in the registers of auditors of the Ministry of Industry's General Secretariat on product quality, as well as the development of mixed scales of control in Macedonia and Thrace are absolutely essential, as are the coordination in terms of better management of regional operational programmes, as well as the supervision of co-financed European and cross-border programmes. When there is no executive role, decision-making, policy implementation, problem-solving, approval and allocation of appropriations, where is it leading? Let the funds for subsidising approved investment projects and programmes be entered in the budget of the Ministry of Finance, let them be entered in the register of employees of development and you will immediately see whether the entire business world of Northern Greece will put its breasts in order to protect it. When can the phenomenon continue to approve grants and projects, receive a guarantee letter and still not have the credit to pay specific grants? Give the opportunity to fund concrete actions and you will see that everyone will stand alongside them. It is therefore able to work in coordination on the protection, promotion and development of the Thematic Gulf, coordination of the region in solving problems and strengthening the border zone. It is capable of supervising the 'Interreg IVC' special agency, as well as supporting the establishment of a research institute for minority populations. Ladies and gentlemen, the leaderships have clearly defined the national priorities. The easy it is to go to elections, the easy it is for us to leave. But let us preserve what unites us, strengthen it and protect it as the only national, right choice. I believed and believe that our actions also define the strength of our word. While others say that Greece has done more to us in three years than the experts have expected, let us consider that this means a 25% reduction in GDP, a rise in unemployment, an increase in poverty, a disappearance of the middle-class, a reduction in labour rights, an increase in debt, a decline in the social state, a reduction in our innumerable young people - especially from Northern Greece - and a country in permanent depression. Let everyone understand that our power comes from the law of Greece. It is a battle with the absurdity that has been imposed on us. Let us keep in touch with every worthy and honest Greek citizen, farmer, worker, scientist, businessman, professional, intellectual. And if we manage to identify ourselves with our actions, then the honor of all, but also their creativity, will find the way out that we are looking for. Let's hear the soul of the Greeks. Let us unite them with our actions. Let us become the stepping stone the next and the best Greeks will step on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Collia. Mr Panayotaros Elias has the floor. Mr Paulakis Paulakis will be followed and then the Minister will speak, Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis. Mr Tragakis Ioannis will then be given the floor instead of Mr Triantafyllidis Alexandros in order for there to be a rotation of MPs - Ministers. At this point, I would like to welcome hopeful young people and young people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Project "Workery of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and an instructor - their attendant from the 2nd Galactici Municipal School. The House welcomes them. We wish you health and good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President, and have a good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u24	SYRIZA's electoral victory was achieved because of its extreme anti-immemorial rhetoric, having flagged the tearing of the memorials - there is also Mr. Army who has probably been irreversibly exposed to this - the audit of the debt in order to prove whether and what part of it is illegal and disposable, it is a product of tachypical practices and should therefore be deleted. And here we are doing a small parentheses to read out what is deceptive, according to International Law. A debt is deceased when one of the three reasons arises: firstly, it has been concluded by dictatorial and despotic regimes with a view to consolidating their position. Secondly, either this money has not gone to the people's interest, rather than has been privatised by a narrow environment of those in power. And thirdly, either this situation was in the knowledge of creditors, that is, when there is no consensus, when there are no benefits for the people and when creditors know in advance that there will be no benefits. Also, the designation of an illegal debt is not yet legal, but its concept has been formed in some successful cases. First, when the debt is drawn up by dictatorial regimes. Secondly, when interest rates are too much. Thirdly, when there is knowledge that the country will not be able to cope. Fourthly, the conditions imposed - usually by the IMF and the World Bank - are economically extinguishing the country, thereby undermining the possibility of repayment. That's all for now. Also, SYRIZA won by state, because he consistently mentioned the direct claim of the mortgage, and a large number of other smaller, but equally important, changes, such as the abolition of the HPAI and other situations. Instead, her Prime Minister just a few days ago of arrival of hope surprised us with his replyable cysts - in common, 'colotumbs' in the simple neo-Greek - where along with the 'colotumbs' of the over-precious Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, they are beginning to land public opinion unintendedly in the continuation of the Memorandum of Reality, even with a different name, as they are preparing to do in the next few days. Mr. Tsipras spoke in his speech yesterday on a non-viable debt, generally and vaguely, without mentioning a word about the tabaker, about his election announcements of haircuts, about the auditing of the debt, about various other situations, etc., etc., and so on, for which he was voted on. At the same time, the Minister of Finance spoke to the world's children, his glamour interviews - apologies, prolongation - of debt, which was completely outside the SYRIZA's agenda, issue of debt bonds, or issue of debt bonds with a growth clause. But nowhere did we hear anything about how there would be a development on the substance. Only compulsion and restoration of injustices. That's right. But to do this, there must be growth, so that there can be revenue, so that all this can be done. He also confessed that 65% to 70% of the memorandum is correct and should be implemented. Perhaps what you were saying beforehand about deleting 70% of the debt you might refer to, that frauds from 70% of the Greek Government's debt should be erased. As for the borrower's loan, he did not dare to shine a word when he was found with the "loveful" - in quotes - Mr.Soible, at the same time as he was crying that he would come back to Greece, he will come to Parliament and have the third political party, which is not neo-nazi, it is Nazi and "something you need to do to help us, because perhaps these bad, fascists will become second and first, if we don't do anything about our voters". One small comment I would like to make: If the Golden Dawn is the reason for relaxing the measures, it is well to be the cause, but to be credited to us in the end. Yesterday the Minister of Finance said - because every day he adds new cubs - that we will not make our heads, regardless of whether we are right on our side. That is our comment. In simple translation, it means that we will be well and obedient children, 'yes man', regardless of whether they were staggered by the 'yes man' by Mr. Varoufakis. Because it is worse than 'yes man' is not 'no man', as he said. Because if you're "no man" with some reasoning, it's worth it. The worst thing is to be "please man", beg and beg. Our difference with you is that we apply in practice the doctrine that, when you are right about your part, you do not compromise, you do not retreat, you do not cost it, you do not weigh it. You simply apply it and claim it at any cost, at any price, even if we want to be called an independent and nationally proud state, with any result. That is how our ancestors have done in the old years and have always been justified and won. It seems, however, that you are not at all prepared to do so. To remind you in the past cases where it is confirmed that the right is on our side, as happened in 1938, when the "bad" fascist regime of Ioannis Metaxas ceased to repay his debt to a Belgian bank on specific grounds: the humanitarian crisis that existed at that time in the Greek people. The Belgian bank asked for the assistance of the Belgian state, they fled to the then League of Nations and in the end Greece won. A few years later, in 1953, and Greece together with twenty other countries, the winners of World War II, signed the deletion of 50% of Germany's debts, for humanitarian reasons again, because the country was destroyed. We signed back then, too. More recently, in the case of Argentina, where not for humanitarian reasons, but why the debt was deceptive and illegal, a very large cut in Argentina's debt was achieved. The Indians of Ecuador did the same thing, which prove to be a lot more phony than some other civilized or I don't know how else you can tell them. They also achieved a very large debt haircut. We are reaching another part of the Prime Minister's announcement. As tragic as the economic data in our country, the Golden Dawn will always have at the top of its priorities national issues as a prerequisite for a nationally independent state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall be coming to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u25	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u26	Powerful army and no compromise on national issues, whatever they may be. Because the 'yes man', as Mr Varoufakis said, the submissives, does not want them, and not just in economic matters, but in everything else, which is often much more serious and more useful. In any case, there should be no compromise for our Macedonia. The Council of Heads in 1993 - the last thing that happened - was the President of the Republic and the leaders of all the parties decided something specific. There has been no change. Completely arbitrary you say "conventional solution with a composite name" and other such anti-national crap. Make a board of leaders. Bring in the new President of the Republic. Let everyone sit on a table again, let's see what they'll decide and take their responsibilities. Not sloppy and in a side way to go through anti-national positions. The same goes for the issue of our Cyprus issue, no compromises there too. Things are simple. There's the Turkish conqueror. 40% of Cyprus is occupied. It's gone and it's over, nothing else. With them, with the barbaric Turks, we should not talk about anything. As for citizenship, as the competitor, Mr Germenis, said before, you have confused them. However, in your party there are now plenty of stakes in both ministerial and parliamentary seats and elsewhere. Then PASOK was Hellenized by hundreds of thousands of different types, who had nothing to do with Greece nor even children were living here first, second and third generations and nothing at all. You have absolutely no right. You're born Greek, you're not. If you want, give them any citizenship that can be there. Citizenship is a sacred thing, which you cannot make a rag of it. In conclusion, I will make a comment on the really worthwhile and important speech of the new President of the Parliament, who, in addition, referred to Article 120 of the Constitution, the former heroic 1.1.4, for which hundreds of thousands of Greeks were on the streets for too many years at some other times. We would like to see - and we hope we do not deny - that it will not be implemented 'á la carte', as some prosperous politicians, ministers and judges of the previous government have done. Everyone knows that. The stones know that, too. They know the crucifixes. People know that. The disgrace that took place at the expense of the third political force, at the expense of the Golden Dawn, where even now - because God loves the thief, also loves the householder - we see them, after they collapsed - and there will be all the time, because we have promised that all these rotten and dirty will be put in prison at some point - begging members of the new government not to be humiliated. We promise you'll be humiliated in court, if and whenever. We're there waiting for you, always a lot stronger and more decent than ever. Of course we are voting against the government's Programmatic Declarations, no matter how well you do it, because, like Mrs Kollia, you have given hope to all Greeks, even to those who have not voted for you. But that's much worse when you give hope and then you get it right after him. You'd better promise them tears, pain, blood, and struggle and - believe me - they'd all be with you by the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. Mr Paulakis Paulis has the floor from SYRIZA and then Minister Lafazanis. The following are Mr Tragakis John and the Triantafylides Alexander. We are pleased to see a high degree of concentration in the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-five students and students and three teachers - their attendants from the 3rd High School of Nice. The House welcomes them. We wish you health, good progress and all good. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Great honor and great debt - so I feel it - to be at this Step here. A thank you, through my heart, to the Chania people who sent me here to serve Chania, Crete and the country. I promise I will do so in the same way as I did for the Sfakia and I was elected by my co-presidents there twice, one in 2010 to 62% and one in 2014 to 96.5% after this work that we did there. There is a Cretan mandarin, which, for the way we have moved - and I see many people here in this Chamber who move in the same way - says: 'In the future of humanity and so forth the debt must be fought even the latter'. That's why the people sent us here. To fight the debt in humanity and honour. Because no matter how many people try to nurture people's souls with what they have been saying over the last few days here - because they have their nest - in Greece another air blows from January 25th onwards. The mold of the south, the dust of the Sahara, left the humidity of the peninsula coming from the west, from the land. Spray clean, north, Madagascarian air, this meltemi that gives life to the rocks of the Aegean Sea every summer. And he took the Maurilla, which for four years these goblins journalists every night at 20:00 wanted to convince a people that his only future for the next thirty years is to tear him apart and his children. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's gone, it's over! SYRIZA took the order in collaboration with the Independent Greeks. Historical fact, working together with these two parties. The people gave us a very clear order. He touched his hope on us and said: "You will stop the humanitarian crisis, punish the guilty, renegotiate the debt and put forward another Greece, Greece of productive reconstruction". That's what he told us. We're not allowed to fail. It's over! There's no other word. We'll succeed, whatever you say! The middle right, which supported Mr Samaras, arrested a plan - the left-hand side and good! - and he tried to bend us. He brought the extension two months closer and says: “What will they do? The bank will shut them down the liquidity, their heart will play like the slippers and they will retreat, as we have retreated." That swing was making you! We're not going to retreat. The shocking conclusion of Alexis Tsipras' speech the other day is why we will win. We're flesh from the people and we won't betray him, we'll keep his dignity high, and they got the message. Look. Things are political and geopolitical and that's why we're going to win. Not for technocratics. The technocrats will find them, they'll find them. The central idea here is this: we want two steps. First, let's get away with the drowning that you tried to do to us. And we'll get away with it, because we sent the message that if you push us, we won't say "slap me, my dear, to sanctify." We will say 'no'. And this 'no' will not only have an effect on Greek society, but will cause a domino throughout the European Union. Can you do that, Mrs. Angela? Uh, I don't think you can, something he told you yesterday and the big boss, Obama. He told you that with open Ukraine and right and left and the rest, and with all that is happening with China, we cannot open Greece. We will therefore make use of every piece of geopolitical and competition that the big centres have, to take time and to make our society and economy work for the next five, six months, to get ahead of these reforms that we will be doing - and I will say a few things about them later - to change the climate and reach the agreement, in which the central idea is this: we want to reduce EUR 6,00 million, 000, 000, 000, 000 euros a year for debt. And say it what you want! Say 'cut', say'reduction', say 'fresh', say 'expansion', say'swap', say 'I don't know what, with the edgelines and acronyms. We want not to pay for the next years 6,000,000-10,000,000,000 euros. This will give the big breath to the economy. And that's what we're gonna do! And that's a haircut, no matter what they say, for peoples to accept it. And be careful: How did we talk two months ago? "With the panorama of the Germans, nothing changes, this is the road," Hardouvelis email, new measures, etc. Now what are we talking about? What we're talking about. What do you think we will be talking about after six months when the elections in Germany have passed, when the elections in Finland have passed, when the elections are near in Spain, where our competitors there are pollutingly a first party, when changes are taking place in Italy and Renci will not be able to control so many things, when all this move created by SYRIZA has been created by SYRIZA's attitude? Because from here, from Greece, the change in Europe will begin. And without SYRIZA that wouldn't happen. And then we will see who is bored, who is not bored, who says 'no', who has the power to move things forward. And they know it very well. That's why they're pushing us now. We're going to get him Flevari's canvas - March. And if we cross Flevaris-Marti's cava, then see what port we'll end up in summer. I want to say two - three things, beyond the general policy, because we will move on and we will not throw the country on the rocks. You've destroyed her. You busted the boat. We'll take it out now. You have created a state - because these are what we want to see in the next few months, because they will also change the social consciousness otherwise - which has three hundred years of characteristics now: it is a clientele, to reproduce your party system, it spreads corruption to feed eighty families of possession dome and twenty new "jackets" of Andreas Papandreou after 1980 and third, it is a diffusion of responsibility. This state you have built. We're going to break that state. Not by firing the world, not by destroying lives and prospects and the new generation, but by radically changing the way it works. And that will be our great reform. When you say "reformation", you mean blood, pain and tears. "Speak them, tear them, fire, do, show, etc." For us, the reform has another content. And I do not like the word'reform'. I like the word'revolve'. In other words, I want a overturn in justice, which does not take ten or twelve years to make a decision on the appeal of Paleochora's biological agent to Crete, which smells half of Libyan. And ten years - I'm sorry for the expression - in the Council of State and they don't make a decision. I want a reform of justice that takes it out in two months. Are we gonna do it or aren't we gonna do it? I want a reform of the police, which doesn't close five police stations to get a minister to a spa in Karpenisi on one side. And on the other hand, I'm trying four pounds of dynamite to blow up my house and the family, to make five months to escort me, which I didn't finally take. And they made it the day it was announced that I would be a candidate. I want a serious reform there. I want a reform on the issue of agricultural production. This year we will make four hundred thousand tonnes of oil, 80% of which will be taken by the Italians. We will get the 2-2,5 euros and the Italians will get the 10-15 euros. Why? Because you have a state in which the Agricultural Sfactory Cooperative to make a standardisation has to make some papers that are so much. But you say 'I don't do that.' So, how's the engine going to get in front? I want a reform in relation to investment, by which this state does not give the dete time to go into huge wind turbines - an eighty-eight in Sfakia and Santa - to produce 550Mw current, when all of Crete burns, for example, 750Mw. And they will enter our own mountains, which we burn 2Mw in the worst cases. And it does not let me as Sfakion Municipality do what I said to them: eight small wind turbines in two specific areas with a majority of the municipality. If you want a private person to be involved, but we have to have the shot. In order that no man pays power, no business, no development motivation - and no money can be made to the neighbouring municipalities. We want this reform. And these reforms we will do, which have nothing to do with yours. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thanks for the tolerance. I heard Mr. Venizelo last night, and I was very upset. One must have great courage when presenting Laurentiadis as an example of an entrepreneur, when it became all this scandal, which ate the money from the bank - and it is also Mr Venizelos behind them - when they gave the Post Treasury against a lentil board to "Eurobank", when they gave the Farmer to Piraeus with the value of a building - and it is Mr Venizelos behind it - when they took 1,150,000,000 million of the Green Fund and gave it to the debt, to come here and say to us: "Do what I do." Going to find a hole to hide and meditate why they took him to 4.5%. Because I have exceeded time and I have a lot to say, so I will finish with a message sent by some colleagues, some friends from the Sfakia, who are very beautiful and I will tell you: "When you are thrown into the well at the bottom and stir the world upwards, you stretch hands and joints to the pore, you are dashing your trembling and you are slandering." That's why we're gonna win.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr Polakis. Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I think Mr Paulakis has made a good introduction to my speech as well. Before the elections, a question which was at stake in the atmosphere and - to be honest - I saw it even among those who were determined to vote for SYRIZA. We were told: "If SYRIZA wins, will he implement his radical election campaign, or will he follow all the previous governments, who have been calling the election, and others were doing the post-elections?" I think that for many of the skepticists - whether skeptical in the good sense or self-interested - this question was answered reliably - I would say with the Prime Minister's programme statements. If, however, there are still skeptical about the continuity of the government's work - and I see here quite a lot of extremist memorials, celebrating the memorials, and because I see a lot of people coming out of here at the Step and worrying that 70%, 60%, 50%, and the other one alone, we do not apply - so we can assure them: Gentlemen, don't worry. The memorials and the troika ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u31	Are you telling us or Mr. Varoufakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u32	Because you're worried. I see you're very concerned. The memorials and the troika ending. Our radical progressive programme, which we have reiterated in our programme statements, will be fully implemented in the next few years. Let some - and unfortunately there are many who hope so in this Chamber - hope that the Eurozone's dominant circles and, above all, Merkel and Shoeble will blackmail us and force us to ruthless retreat. Our programme is not a flag of opportunity, so that we can surround it as some European Union circles may believe in the European institutions and change it like shirts. Our program is not split, it is not divided, it is not split. If some - who do not want to believe it - send us ultimatums and send us extortional dilemmas, they must now know that they will choose the wrong country, the wrong people and I would say the wrong government. Our government is not blackmailing, because an entire people cannot be blackmailed with it, who at this time, regardless of what they voted, unanimously and racingly support our national and social effort. Greece is not a protectorate. It ceased to be a protectorate, as it had become in the memorial years. He's nobody's hostage. And we do not accept the conversion of the euro area into a neo-colonisation area. Our government now does not only give a fight for our country and the Greek people. It gives a struggle for all Europe's workers who are drowned by neoliberalism and the wild class policies of austerity implemented by the Eurozone's dominant circles. We are fighting for another progressive Europe of peoples and democracy, without domination and without dominance. The euro area and the European Union, if they continue today's wild neoliberal choices of class and social plundering, will probably have - and very quickly - the same fate, possibly in another form, which has been the case with socialism. Europe will either change or not have a future. And in this struggle for change in Europe it seeks to help the new Greek Government and calls for the solidarity of the peoples of Europe and the democratic progressive forces and movements in all countries. If our government stands up - and it will stand - against storms and pressures and implements its programme, it will not only win the Greek people. It will be a victory for hope throughout Europe. The peoples of Europe will have been defeated in particular. Colleagues and colleagues, the crisis we are experiencing is good to remember that it was not caused by Greece, as some people may think, but that it was born in the USA, in the country - model of international capitalism. This crisis of developed capitalism has not yet passed. This crisis is particularly affecting the euro area, which, because of its unacceptable structure, has become the most problematic region in the international economy. The peculiarity of our country is not only that because of the policies pursued is the weak link in the euro area. The main peculiarity of Greece is that for us the crisis has become more intense and deeper for a number of specific reasons, especially because of the deterioration and dismantling of the country's production base. It is no coincidence that our Ministry was transformed, extended and called the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction. Because the country's productive reconstruction is the first and main priority for a progressive way out of the current crisis. Nor is it accidental that the environment has been linked to the country's productive reconstruction. For us, the productive reconstruction and the development of the country must be sustainable and sustainable and, therefore, with ecological content. For us, environmental protection is not a cost, but a strategic option for the endless production of wealth with a continuous improvement in quality of life. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] Colleagues and colleagues, at the heart of the production effort of the new government, will be the full support, reinforcement and upgrading of industrial production, which has fallen back over the past decades and, in particular, in recent years, has, unfortunately, collapsed, with a degrading one-digit number in the country's gross national product. Industrial production, in addition to many others, is crushed, pressed between financial capital, which often closes doors to it, large multinational commercial capital, and private interests in the energy sector, which are evicted at high energy prices. At the same time industrial production feels the dismantling of the direct interconnected business forces, speculating from public works and supplies, at the same time controlling large media. That is why it is of particular importance, in order to support the country's productive reconstruction, the public ownership and the management of banks, a new financial policy, with only development criteria and the central presence of the public, to a non-custodial role in the field of energy. Our Government will support, with all its means, modern and innovative industrial development, combined with full support and defence for wage, labour and trade rights of workers and the environment. In this direction we will radically reorientate and upgrade the role of the General Secretariat for Industry. The General Secretariat for Industry, despite the constraints of the single European market, will assume a new, strongly active and interventionive role in the development of instruments, tools and policies that will support industrial production and in particular support sectoral and sectoral industrial policies. In this context we will develop boldly specific plans to revitalise and rebuild sectors and sectors of industry, such as shipbuilding and shipbuilding, which has collapsed, even though we have great comparative advantages for its development. Colleagues and colleagues, the heart of a new productive effort in the country is the formation of a new energy policy. The policy of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK in the field of energy in general, especially in the electricity sector, has been disastrous. PPC was productively downgraded and is occupied by medium and large private interests and if it does not change fast, it leads to economic asphyxiation. Electricity prices for households, businesses and especially for the energy industry have been eroded at incredible heights, they have become intolerable and are exacerbating the recession. The famous "liberation" in the electricity sector and in general energy may have favoured the major private interests, but disorganised the market, depleted prices and weakened the economy. Energy poverty has experienced an unprecedented spread, while the outstanding debts to PPC that are constantly mocking have exceeded EUR 1.7 billion. Renewables show a significant confirmation of an increase in their share of production, but small and, in particular, very small producers are being exterminated and do not know when they will be paid. In spite of the very large reductions in RES producers' prices, which, as I said by the small and very small producers, exceed EUR 500 million. Our Government will support the very small and small producers of RES for the viability of their businesses. The widespread failure of energy policy came not only as a result of the crisis, but also of the failed and almost non-energy planning which favoured private interests. At this time, Greece needs a new energy strategy with a very clear progressive figure. This energy strategy will be implemented by our government. The new government will promote a number of immediate measures in this direction. We immediately cancel the fragmentation of PPC in large and small PPC. We stop any further privatisation of PPC. We stop the privatisation of the Independent Electricity Transfer Manager, IPTO. The criminal degradation of PPC - Renewables stops. PPC - Renewables are upgraded in order to play a central role in the area of renewable energy. The PPC Group can be a great "engine" for a new energy growth with respect to the environment and a new industrial regeneration and take-off of the country. For this purpose, PPC needs a planned reconstruction in all areas, recruitment of new staff and full rehabilitation from private interests. This reconstruction will be completed by our government. PPC can, through a reconstruction plan, reduce - which RAE admits - the Energy Regulatory Authority - from 20% to 40% electricity production costs, which will bring about a significant reduction in tariffs for consumers, households and businesses. Our Government will also take the initiative to review RAE's institutional framework, so that government policy takes a greater role in defining energy planning in the interests of the public interest. In addition to this, the commitment of our Government to providing free three hundred kilowatts of electricity per month to three hundred thousand households below the poverty line. With regard to the wider energy sector, our Government, by creating a new foreign policy and a strong negotiating tactic, will pursue - and I believe it will succeed - a significant reduction in gas supply prices, which are perhaps the most expensive in Europe. The Public Gas Corporation, the DEPA, is reconstructed and takes on a new role, without intermediaries, to take natural gas everywhere in our country. Any idea of privatization of the IPCC is being abandoned. If we had the government, we wouldn't have privatized the Administrator of the National Gas System, the ISAA. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. I would like to point out that this Azeri company is a state-owned company. Most of the so-called privatisations in Greece are not privatizations, they are re-ruralisations, except that they go to foreign states. The privatisation of the Azeri company ‘SOCAR’ has therefore gone far enough. However, we will decide our further moves towards the fate of the CCCTB, following the decision of the European Competition Committee, pending this acquisition for consideration. I would also like to emphasise the great productive role of Greek oil in the crucial oil and oil sectors. What I would like to stress here is that the public will exercise all the rights to participate in the ELPEs so that this modern industry can be reconstructed and play a central role in reducing the prices of oil, gasoline and petroleum products in our country. Colleagues and colleagues, we are stepping up our efforts to identify and exploit hydrocarbon deposits, seeking for this the widest possible cooperation. We are establishing a public body for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. After the successful competition for the three land plots, we will rapidly review the method of competition for the marine plots in the western maritime areas of our country and south of Crete. Finally, I would just like to say a word about the need for our country to develop a new international energy relations policy. With our Government Greece will cease to be the dependent energy satellite of certain hegemonian states or group of states. In the field of our external energy relations, we will develop a multi-dimensional and multi-dimensional energy strategy with all countries and with the sole aim of maximising the national benefit and serving the national and public interest. On the issues of primary production and, in particular, the rural economy, the Deputy Minister, Mr Vangelis Apostolos, will speak in detail. I don't have the time to talk to you in full. What I would like to repeat, however, is that our Government will make a great shift in primary production and primary production growth in the country, in which we have strong comparative advantages. Our priority is qualityly identified agricultural livestock and fishery products. Our priority is democratic cooperatives and agri-food complexes, which will start from export-oriented production, research, standardisation, quality, processing and marketing. In this context, let me say that our Government will directly support the Greek Sugar Industry, in order to survive with it, not only the workers, but also thousands of customs producers from Fthiotis to Evros. Nor do we forget, since we are talking about the agricultural sector, the scandalous, graceful transfer of the Agricultural Bank to Piraeus Bank. As we do not forget the similar scandalous transfer of the Post Bank to Eurobank. They'll be examined. And in any case, rural world, primary production must have its own bank, a bank with another orientation that supports the agricultural sector, supports rural development, supports farmers, farmers and fishermen. As far as the environment is concerned, the Deputy Minister will speak quite thoroughly. But let me just make two points which show our own orientation on this issue and are crucial. I would like to repeat a well-known position which we had as opposition and which we fought for, we maintain it as a government and we will promote it. We're against the gold lining in Skouria. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we will use all possible legal means to promote this position. But I would stress that, in any case, we will support all the workers in the mines, their jobs and their prospects. Along with this, I would also like to stress something that we had said a lot of election things and had given struggles: the acquisition of the Greek was scandalous, while the plans for exploiting the Greek are extreme anti-environmental. We will review this scandalous takeover, with the aim of canceling it. I think, therefore, that in this context, the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction can offer - and I think, in fact, positive and forward - the great effort of our Government to get out of the crisis and build a new, independent, progressive, democratic, reconstructed and productive Greece. Hope was born. That hope is not going to be eradicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr Ioannis Tragakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, the hours are critical, the days are crucial. I regard myself as an obligation in this brief speech, as an old parliamentarian with a long time of experience and a term in the seat of the Parliament, to address the National Representation speaking without fanaticism. That is what the debate on the Programmatic Declarations of a new government with a fresh people's mandate also requires. A government formed, however, without direction and with fragile balances, which has to deal with major, vital issues that will affect the future of the place in the coming years. And because the step-by-step minister, the Minister for Reconstruction, Development, Environment and Industry, and I do not know what else he asked some questions, I would like to say the following. First of all, 70% of the Memorandum mentioned did not say so from New Democracy. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Varoufakis, said so. And to put him a little harder, because we have said that the fight against unemployment is only a development, I have some questions: The Minister did not tell us what will happen with the five thousand new posts provided for by the cancellation of the Greek. The Minister did not tell us about the letter he received from the workers in Skouria in Halkidiki, who was very hard to find out what will happen to them. The Minister did not tell us what will happen with the extension of 'COSCO' to the port of Piraeus, where two thousand new jobs are planned and in our region. The Minister did not tell us what will happen with the competition for the fourteen regional airports that brought to the Greek State EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 3 billion in investments and around two and three thousand new jobs on the islands. The Minister did not tell us what will happen with the extensions of the ports of Crete, the Cyclades, the Dodecanese island, to accept cruise ships. The Minister did not tell us what will happen with the extension of the contract to the PPA on cruise ships, so that we can accept all these huge cruise ships by increasing tourism. The Minister did not tell us what is going to happen with the DESFA, because that concerning the Azeri state-owned company was known all along and means nothing. The Ambassador of Azerbaijan should have visited you to change your Rotta and march at this point too. I would also like to talk about energy policy. I was pleased that the Minister recognised that the first invitation to tender for the three plots of hydrocarbon exploitation was a positive tender and will continue with it. We, in fact, have stated that everything positive comes from the government will support it. But whatever's negative, he'll find us vertically opposite. The government is trying to see whether the negotiation, which it had been proclaiming for five years, will result. Is there a threat? Is there a risk ignorance? Let me say that there is also arrogance by some government officials. Nobody owes and should not rejoice if things don't go well. There are great national risks, there are open fronts. If things go wrong, we are at risk of being isolated outside the core of Europe, we are all at risk of turning back many years. For this reason, however, no one has the right to rejoice and to accuse those of us who have expressed concerns and concerns both for these operations and for the final result of the negotiation. We, as a Qualified Opposition and a responsible political force, will, as I said, support the government in any proper manipulations it makes on the question of debt, regardless of whether they come into full opposition and contrast with what SYRIZA said in the election. It is time to realise that the conflict with our partners does not benefit us, it will not lead anywhere. It needs a more prudent and reliable attitude. Apart from the debt negotiation, however, there is also the open internal front of the economy, for which the government is indifferently whistling, it still does not give convincing answers. The country is in danger of staying without money. The elections have caused a great deal of revenue. The prospect of government change has frozen the country's economic activities, while a large part of its citizens, drifting away from the expectations that SYRIZA created for election, have stopped paying his obligations. The Prime Minister asked everyone to pay HISPIAN. From 'not paying' - I don't pay' we went to 'pay'. Already the Bottom Minister said the debts to PPC exceed EUR 7.5 billion, 7.5 billion were from the slogan "I don't pay - I don't pay". All figures show that tax revenues are considerably less than the budget targets. The liquidity problem in the state funds has been intensified. For five years we have been constantly listening to the parties that now have been ruling that there has been a different path, easier, more painless than the one that the European Union has been obliging us to do and the programme that was being implemented. For five years, SYRIZA has opposed any reform, any foreign investment. Now you're talking about radical reforms in the clientele state, public administration, everywhere. We welcome them, but they are your ministers who have been in a hurry to break down what has happened in recent years, they are your ministers who announce the re-introduction of thousands of civil servants who annul state agreements and privatisations, who are talking about the abolition of the ADP and the reintroduction of the eternal students. You have not escaped your election and programme commitments. Once again, like all the governments that are taking over, you have spoken of 'burned land', the Prime Minister said so. The Minister of Finance spoke of a 'false cow'. The previous government of Papandreou had spoken of "Titanic". You have named the Memorandum 'Medium-term programme'. You have hidden that you have spoken with the troika, that you have spoken with the International Monetary Fund. Fortunately you also recognised something, namely that the primary surplus presented by the New Democracy Government was very positive for our negotiations. We, as responsible for opposition, will not say no to everything, as SYRIZA has so irresponsiblely done, undercutting any reform. We will support what you do positively, always having as the sole criterion the interest of the Greek people. In no case, however, will we let you tear everything down. We are here to guarantee the European and developmental course of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tragakis. I invite Mr. Alexander Triantafylides from SYRIZA to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u36	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the speech by President and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras identified, condensed and determined the measure of the history and responsibility we have experienced these days. But let's try a subtracting, shocking simulation. Elections have been held, New Democracy and PASOK have been elected. What would we have? We would have had Mr. Hardouvelis meet the troika and try to baptize the fish. What would we have? Mr Venizelos' endless statements to the bars of Maximos, who would try to justify unjustified. We'd have the notorious apologists of the Memorandum throwing back fights on the news reports to make the black white. What would we have? The so-called controversy MPs of the coup d'état make the credibility of the policy on television windows rampant and finally to vote with a heavy heart so that the government does not fall and there is a problem with government stability. That's what we'd have. This huge difference of value, importance, meaning of politics are experienced by citizens in a wide national and social alliance. They are touching on SYRIZA, his government and President Alexis Tsipras. The citizens now see their hearts as their hearts that the policy has returned, the joy of making politics has returned, credibility has returned, responsibilities have been shared. What responsibilities? The enigma of exiting from the memorial cannibalism, the enigma of life, prospects and hope for us and our children, for our homeland, require the collective political subject to have the characteristics of the intelligent Oedipus. First view: the government of national and social salvation SYRIZA - ANEL to resolve the enigma of Sphinx - "memorandum" - without killing his father - "values and principles" - and without, of course, marrying his mother, "power and self-interest". The other side of Oedipus: the citizens acting on the streets and the squares putting back on their own government. Why? Overthrow 'deliver', home-to-house distribution, does not exist. Because dignity is not borrowed, given or given. It is not inherited. It's conquered by races, it's maintained by races, only for those who deserve it. It is characteristic that friends in social media wrote: "Depte back you don't even do to take a time." This is climate, this is dealing with, this is activation, this is mobilising and alerting citizens. I come to Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki of history, multiculturalism and refugees, the city of the great labour struggles, our city. The city of fraudulent commitments and unfulfilled promises remains. The first SYRIZA, with ten units different from the New Democracy, does not automatically change the map of the black, the black holes that consecrate the city beyond the consequences of the Memorandum. The metro is cancerd, the port is denounced, the State Theatre of Northern Greece is down, the hospitals collapse. It is the capital of unemployment, of young people especially, and of women, with sixteen thousand units from local government and the Church only for western Thessaloniki. The city is established by its traffic and by the subway and construction sites, which should have been completed by 2012, with a unique means of transporting citizens, the private OSH, with a monopoly state subsidy. This Thessaloniki we received, with unique dowry, unexploited and decommissioned comparative advantages and the reserve of exclusive love of the Thessalonians for our city. The city needs an emergency programme - Thessaloniki 2 - with guaranteed funding, using all possible European resources. Referring specifically to Western Thessaloniki, a new plan is needed to support and promote the proper management of waste through public investment and a ban on incineration of waste. The former camps of Thessaloniki should be attributed to local communities as free public areas of greenery, culture and recreation. Furthermore, anti-military works are required for the streams and streams of western Thessaloniki due to the high risk to the lives and property of the residents. This proposal - a memorandum, with technical documentation, I submit to the Minutes, so that I can continue and come to the main part of this first speech, concerning my home, the ERT. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, "we must fight for the impossible, so as not to experience the inconceivable," he said at the beginning of the crisis and the monumental weller, just before he left life, the professor of the Criminal Law at the Aristotle University, Giannis Manoledakis. In these twenty months, during the six hundred endless days and nights from the "Black" of ERT on June 11th to the night of the elections, from the endless night of the memorandum to the resurrected Monday on January 26th, 2015, we fought in the free ERT for the impossible, not to live the incomprehensible in the bouquet of "Blacks" not only on the ERT, who disappeared every day from the map of Greek society, the economy, culture, and the notion of politics. We're born again. We're re-reconstructed. We interacted with each other and with each other. We counted our boy, our relationship with the concepts, people, the needs and the code of values, the horizons of an entire life against the "black" not only in our lives, but the "black" as the cache of democracy, everywhere, in education, in health, in culture, always thinking that we are not what we are saying, but what we do, the power of the experienced example. Six hundred days free ERT, voluntarily and unpaid. The "conscious revolution", said by ERT3 on February 15, 2013, President Alexis Tsipras, where the reason is not left empty shirt, because the act reverses him. Having always in mind the morality of collectiveism towards the complexion, customers, comrades and backgrounds, the general assembly of ERT's upright people, who are planning and deciding and implementing, with self-management and self-management, without friends, groups of influence and collaborative obsessions. We have examined and refused the easy choice of the management of the current misery, since it is no different. "Die down, hide away, do what many do. Don't expose yourself. Don't be silly. If you don't go to the ICU and NERIT, someone else will go to the format - abortion, the shame of journalism." We conflicted with cynicism, resignation, despair and fatalism. We didn't go to our homes. We didn't invoke our children to break up. We stayed in ERT's buildings. We stepped on our feet from the shock, the destruction of an entire life, the investment of dreams and effort with care and honor for ERT3 from Thessaloniki and the NRAs from all over Greece. Despair, knowledge, knowledge that history is written by "no" rather than by "yes" make-ups, with pretext excuses that legalise cannibalism. At the same time, we experienced solidarity with other movements as a daily act, a school of collectiveness, against partyism and idiom. "Nobody alone" was the moto, when we met with the cleaners, the workers of "COCA-COLA", the educators available, school guards, Skouria, the SMA Evcarpia and the camps in the western districts. We for you, you for us. We remained standing, without compensation, with no precedent, with the only prospect of fighting against the black government, against intolerance, empathy, vengeance, for the left-wing ERTs. We will recall the statement by former Prime Minister, Mr Antonis Samaras, who three days after ERT's 'black' said reputedly from the youth of ONNED: 'We were appointed in PASOK, we were appointed in the New Democracy, but we were appointed left'. We wrote in the newspaper "The AUGI" on August 4, 2013, entitled: From "Black" to light: "With the Government Samara - Venizelos, we have opened accounts, which will be solved judicially and politically to the end". The choice of Greek citizens on 25 January was pure. Every vote and one press of the button to leave the black, so that the ERT, the new ERT, can open, where we claimed work and not for these twenty months. This new ERT that he hears and is inspired by Titus Patricio with the clear position for the "black" on June 11th. When the eye hurts, you can't take it off. You put a drop on it. Back to ERT doesn't mean coming back to yesterday. Return to ERT's normality does not mean returning to the ERT of the “backyard”, the scandals, direct assignments, any archipelagos and slow-wages. Back to ERT means return to the future. Now we're turning a page. Faced with the "black" the smile of vindication of journalists, technicians and administration, the color of hope, the hope of lifted sleeves for a lot of work. We want ERT open to society, the criticism of society being reflected in its programme and the ERT's dynamic programme to express, the voice of refreshing and living society, the active citizens. We want ERT to be multi-speaking, pluralist, good pipeline of new streams and trends in all kinds of art, training and entertainment. We want the ERT home of informing all Greek citizens who pay through the reward, so that they don't have to play the "go away, you come" project every time, depending on government changes. We have been working, and not for a reason, on an ERT, once again, without the sufferings of the recent, but also of the endless past, without a slow and provocatively paid, with the general assembly of the workers as a co-formulator on the big issues, without'rear' factorism and supposedly co-management. We want an ERT with permanent, fruitful and interactive osmosis, an interaction through the IACC - a representative Social Control Assembly - and not a sterile airborne agency in the individual government. We want an ERT without discrimination on both sides and friends, paid richly, the others, who await the arrival of their own government in the creative standby chamber, and the many who simply demand to be assessed solely by the quality of their work. We want a new ERT, with the wages of workers on the Internet, from the clerk to the Coordinator-General, so that the two thousand six hundred and sixty-six employees paid the minimum wage provided for in the collective agreements - that is, the workers of 700 euros up to 1,700 euros - are not apologised for each of the fifty government gold carpets. The ERT maid on June 11th doesn't exist, she's dead. We left her behind, along with the weights, the pathogens and the buddies that were bored. The free ERT of these rights also concerns us - it also emits at this time of speaking - a bound soul and a body with social movements, free from the rusty of the offices, the mechanisms of power and the guaranteed impotence of management government. ERT has been re-established, has been uploaded to the demands of the fellow citizens of Europe, and only as such can function, having entered into the compass of the social palmographer. The new ERT, the elbow of the four alphas of the Greek society, made redundant, unemployed, homeless, unreasonable, at the side of every weak citizen, the small and medium-sized, the professional, the businessman, the world of production and work, who is afflicted and oppressed by bureaucracy and rapidity. The contract of this new ERT with society in an arcade: You are our strength, we are your voice! I'm hanging up. You were offered a job at the ICU and NERIT and you said - they were missing! - No, no. They ask us: "How did you survive these twenty stone months?" We answer the lyrics of Constantine Kavafis: “Some people come a day when the great yes or the great thing is not to say. Immediately anyone who has it ready in it, yes, and saying it goes to the price and confidence. The denial doesn't regret. If they were to ask, he would still not say again. And yet that not is the right thing for him all his life." This morality of the Left of Act and Action, this aesthetic of Russianism, we serve, in this way we coordinate our verbs with our steps for democracy, solidarity and dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much Mr Triantafylides. As for the previous year - which was, of course, not more than some other Members - I have to say that it certainly does not balance with the endless months in free ERT. I would like to make one comment from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u38	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u39	Yes, Mr. Philly, I saw you. I'll give you the floor. On the President-in-Office's behalf - and because the question of ERT has been raised - I would like to stress, as I have said in my opening statement, that the issue of the global, objective, unmanageable and unmediated information is an issue which is concerned with and will employ Parliament and the information provided by the House, the way in which the citizen is informed about what is happening in Parliament. To this end, the model built by the self-managed ERT will be a very useful basis. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesperson, Mr Friend, has asked for the floor. Mr. Philly, would you like to take a second time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u40	No, Madam President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u41	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u42	I think we should be fairly strict and typical in our Members' speaking time - and Members and Ministers - because we are at the end of our process. A number of colleagues need to speak. It is not a democratic function to be misused in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u43	That is what the Bureau takes into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u44	But he doesn't keep it. I have to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Philly, I'm sorry for your comment. It is, of course, a little difficult for the Bureau to accept these remarks from speakers who have already spoken. In any case, Mr Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u46	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u47	I have given the floor to the Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. I'll give him to you right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u48	Then I'll go up anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. I congratulate you on your election and on the way in which you carry out your duties. I think you will indeed be an historic President of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, since the 1950s and the famous Varvaressos report, we know that the administration is the great patient in Greece. Indeed, the findings of this report and those that followed - for example, George Lagros, who was the first OECD representative to come to Greece - confirm the same findings that we are discussing to date, namely a bureaucratic, legal administration, which is a brake rather than a lever for growth and which is characterised by the spirit of patronage. Is it not reasonable to ask why, seventy years later, when we agree on the symptoms, we cannot cure the disease? And yet the answer is simple: the political system which has collapsed the years of the crisis and which has been deplored by this administration is in need of it. Because a political system that is at its top of the complexion between the political and economic elites, with the media and the banks, does not want an objective, bemperial public administration. He wants a client administration that the Law of the Minister will have more weight than the word of the law. Why else would they become legal, but in the way we know, the large public procurement that is the adhesive between the political and economic elites? The second thing to be noticed, when we are in front of any reform, is what orientation it gives the state. Because, as you know, this aggressive market ideology, the fundamentalism we call neoliberalism, typically wants to make us think that it wants a lesser state. Regan said that the most horrifying phrase in English is that "I am from the government and I am here to help". In practice, however, where neoliberal dogmas were applied did not subtle the state. What has happened is to change his orientation. Social expenditure on education, education, welfare and through privatisation has been reduced, and all areas of State power have been allocated to private individuals, even in areas of the core of state power. The war in Iraq has largely been done by LACKWATER. At Abu Gribb's college, those who did the interrogation were contractors who had the special psychological knowledge that this kind of interrogation needs. And if you think this isn't about us, one of the first things I saw - and they made me freak out - at the Ministry I took over is the presence of a private cucumber in addition to the ten policemen who were outside the entrance of the ministry. So in this light, how can we assess the five-year-olds in the field of administration? It was not a caricature reform, it was a complete counter-reformation, a neoliberal arrest and a customer execution. This is not only about the state and the administration, but, where neoliberal policy is implemented, the result is to increase social inequality, undermine the social state, create social misery. This is not only about administration and the state, it is about democracy itself. Bertrand Russell was right to say that when you have a choice between the right to vote and the right to a franchise of bread, a single criterion determines your decision: how hungry you are. But why did I characterize the five-year-old counter-reformation? First because it was characterized by ideologies. A central point was the dismissal of fifteen thousand officials. This is an idealism, because never the size of the administration itself was the basic problem of the Greek state. Before the crisis we were about on the average of the European Union and the OECD, and after the crisis we had a fall in the human resources of almost 40%. From nine hundred forty-two thousand six hundred twenty-five public servants in 2010, we are now in the five hundred six hundred and sixty-five public servants, with the main lever of this reduction, the complete abolition of fixed-term contracts and the early withdrawal of those that constituted the institutional memory of the public administration, the managers of the administration, who, in the climate of essentially hunting witches at the expense of the public sector, proceeded to early retirement. Even more irrational was the application of the hunting of these heads of the fifteen thousand redundancies. Without evaluation, whether individuals or structures, useful services were actually abolished. Who thinks the City Police didn't have to bring revenue to the municipalities? Which private company that would downsizing close the debt collection department? That's not even neoliberalism. That's absurd. It's like you want to weaken, and, to lose weight, cut your hand. Apart from the logic, however, the second victim of the implementation of these policies was legality, especially constitutional legitimacy. The Minister of Justice said yesterday that the'reconstitution' of the Memorandum arrangements essentially acted as a'super-constitution', which displaced the law arrangements to implement the Memorandum of Understanding. Just one example I'll tell you. I found in the Ministry four hundred irrevocably irrevocable judicial decisions and was informed by the Ministry's servants that there was an order from my predecessor not to carry out these decisions until they arrived at the Compliance Committee of the Council of State, which imposed a fine on the administration. You realize what the message of such a decision is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u50	All lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u51	I have the service document and I will submit it to the Minutes if it is disputed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u52	Of course I question it and testify now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u53	Of course I'll testify, I've got it in my papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u54	Now testify, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u55	So the message of this move was that the Minister's word is heavier than the word of the law and the judge, and that message of lawlessness is exactly what characterised the client system that served these parties of old-fashioned communism. The third victim of the counter-reform was democracy. Because democracy means participation in decision-making and respect for human rights. The counter-reform has abolished a tradition of decades of public service law, i.e. the representatives of civil servants involved in the disciplinary boards to be judged by their counterparts, 'from your people', as the Anglo-Saxons say. The presumption of innocence was also abolished and anyone who was disciplinaryly persecuted for any reason, including trade union action, would automatically have seen a break with the self-righteous holiday, which abolished a previous disciplinary institution of clerical law, a potential holiday. Finally, the last victim of the counter-reform was political neutrality. My predecessor was the sole minister, who appointed by his personal decision general managers and directors, while remaining directors chosen by service councils, under the pretext of adapting to the new establishment plans. My extensive reference to the previous situation is to show that we will be the very opposite, the very negative of what happened in previous years. We will serve the logic in reforms, the Constitution, legitimacy, democracy and political neutrality. The first measures, as announced by the Prime Minister's original position, are the restoration of injustice. This is not a reform, but it is necessary to do so. In this context, we have the revocation of the dismissals of availability. And you know who was finally fired, don't you? Those who didn't have the protection of the client system, the little people, the cleaners and the school guards. All of them will come back. A mini voluntary mobility process will take precedence over those who match their work profile with other needs that the public administration currently has, but those who do not choose to go to these new posts will return to the old ones. Obviously, too, and we directly replace the anti-constitutional provisions of disciplinary law. The second step we are going to take is the system of selection of heads. Despite these interventions, which have been made in the public administration and which have raised a justified noise, we are not going to go into individual interventions, ad hoc, in the positions of heads of government, because that would send the wrong message that we are doing what the older people are doing, that we are continuing customerism and patronage. Only when a new system of selection has been introduced, will we replace the heads. From there, we come to the point of our reform. What is the main problem of the Greek state? I said, it's not the size, it's the distorted organization and the unequal distribution of staff. What happened in this area? Paper exercises. The first Minister of the previous government has created two hundred and sixty thousand job contours, what we call job description, the job profile. His successor modified the organograms. Has there been any contact between the two hundred and sixty thousand job contours and the organograms? Oh, no. So obviously one was useless to the other. Why didn't it happen then? The answer is simple. This was not to change the state. This was only done to satisfy the requirements of one of the evaluations. In short, they did not happen to change the administration. We mocked our lenders, and they fooled themselves. Because none of this has been done in order to implement it. So what has to be done and so far has not been done is to look at the needs of each ministry, not just to intervene in its organograms. Because, badly liars, there are no places to pay civil servants. The positions exist to meet specific social needs. So when we have determined what needs each Ministry has to meet, we will identify the position profile of each of these positions and re-establish the procedures needed so that the needs covered by the position are served. When we have done so, then we will also form an evaluation system that has no punitive features, but will examine exactly how each employee responds to his duties when he has the task profile to be judged. Because, whoever wants to do the evaluation system first and then proceed with the reorganisation of public administration, it's practically like building a house from the roof and not from the foundations. Then we will implement a policy of mobility, not the defamation, which was essentially a pretext for our predecessors to dismiss. Mobility is not a financial policy tool, to save revenues for the public sector, for itself, although vice versa, which is not a way of exercising social policy as well. Mobility is a way of transferring staff from where it takes less where it takes most. So when we have implemented this system, without insecurity, guaranteeing that no one will lose their job, we will also respond to another call for a fixed management, not to have temporary posts in the public sector, which promotes job insecurity, but, as far as possible, to ensure constitutional permanentity for all civil servants. The next step is the forms of social control. We have said the evaluation that we do not regard it as punishable, just as a reward for the best and as a way of choosing them. But we are also interested in the way in which society itself will assess and welcome the services provided to it by the administration. That is why we will also use e-government tools. Here, to be honest and objective, I will say that we will build what we have found, but by immersing it in our own logic, which is a logic of generalising transparency. For example, "GENERAL" can be linked to other public data banks and to the logic of social control that we have, that is, the administration's social accountability to society. We will proceed with the development of the JEPs, in essence by making the Vitual JEPs, which can be accessed through their computer. We will make use of the system of communication between public services, so that we can achieve the objective of horizontal interconnecting the ministries and simplify procedures so that no one anymore needs to seek certificates that are in possession of the public service and which can under the responsibility of the services themselves and on their own initiative be guaranteed. At the end of this effort, we'll have a new Staff Code. Last I left the payroll issue. It is clear that there are many injustices that have been accumulated among civil servants in the application of the Memorandum Laws and the austerity of the five-year period. It is equally obvious that we cannot now restore these injustices. But with a new truly fair and unified wage, which can meet the needs of both the administration and the civil servants, I hope that from next year, when the economy has been rectified, we will be able to do something in the economic sector as well. But also to rely on the collective negotiations in the public sector, an institution which had been attempting to implement an international convention for ten years, an institution which was concentrating, however, on the successive PASOK and New Democracy governments, in fact, depriving it of its essential meaning. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways to reform. One describes Kavafis in his well-known poem “In a great Greek colony, 200 B.C.”. That's the way to bring a reformer out, just like we brought the troika. Not us, our predecessors. What's the problem with this recipe? That works only in the colonies. There's the other way. We have to change our state. We, because we need it, because we want to break down the client system and the system of interchangeability, not because we want to satisfy anyone outside Greece. And to do that with our own powers, making use of the best practices abroad. But not because someone else obliges us, but because it's our country, our country, and we want to make it better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much to the Minister. The PASOK Parliamentary spokesperson has asked for the floor. Mr. Kutsuko, will you speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u57	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u59	I know, but Mr. Koutsoukos has asked for the floor before you. Immediately after that, it's you. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u60	Then on a point of order, Madam President, you have not given me the floor before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u61	Immediately after Mr. Koutsuko, you will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u62	No, Madam President. I asked before the speech. You'll allow me to give him now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u63	With Mr. Koutsuku's permission, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u64	With Mr. Koutsuku's permission, he's very conscientious. Madam President, I would like to make a point following Mr Friend's comment on the need...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Kutsuko, don't get confused. That's where SYRIZA's benches are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u66	I don't think he's in danger of getting confused. A point following Mr Philadelphia's comment, which I think reflects the views of most of the Members on the need to keep the speaker's time. I would like to point out, Madam President, that the point you made and the excuse you made, for the excessive tolerance of Mr Triantafylides' speech, really surprised me. I did not know that the previous life of a Member should also determine his speaking time in Parliament. This really is an interesting, broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I do not know whether you would like to suggest it and permanently have a committee, which, depending on the degree of social sensitivity of each speaker, depending on the feeling with which he is burdening his word, should be adjusted accordingly. I think that this particular remark was inappropriate and we would certainly avoid having this debate, if you do what the Parliamentary representatives have asked you to do from the outset, to keep the time strictly for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Mitsotakis, thank you for your comment. The first thing I have to say is that, if I complied with your suggestions, I shouldn't have given you the floor. The second thing I want to say to you is that yesterday, when you had 12 minutes, you spoke sixteen and you ask me to speak for a second time - and I think you should take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u68	Of course we must, under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u69	I prejudge the freedom of expression of Members and everyone will be reconvened with their example when it comes to the rules only for others. The Bureau's decision is, as far as possible, to make it easier for all Members to express themselves without full intervention from the Bureau. In relation to what you said a moment ago and because you obviously misunderstood, I would like to say that the Bureau's remark was not about Mr Triantafyllidis's earlier life. It has to do with the major and public interest of the ERT, freedom of information and freedom of speech even more. The Bureau considered that it would be at least provocative and insulting at the time the issue of 'black' and censorship at the ERT was being developed to close the microphones to the one who developed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u70	So the time that each Member is entitled is commensurate with what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u71	I accept your comment and give the floor to Mr Koutsouko for twelve minutes on his prototype, because he has not taken the lead. They follow, in the order that has been stated, Mr Pafilis for his prototype and then you for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that we will have the opportunity during your Presidency, which we have wished for the best, to discuss a number of procedural issues. We, too, show tolerance in this first debate, and we also appreciate the Members' willingness to participate without the limitations of time, but we must at some point observe them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have wished for every success in the new government since the first night of the elections. We wish it wholeheartedly, because we believe that a success of the new Greek government will be a success for the people and a fairer sacrifice. Far from us any thought destructive, which we could support on it. We want to support it in success, and we will explain why this success has to do with the sacrifices and the labors which the Greek people have suffered and the political costs that we have suffered to start up these processes. My criticism and position on the government's Programmatic Declarations will be made in four key points. The first point concerns fear in the face of the agreement. We have a government that comes from a pre-election rhetoric of promises and psalmies, which is bound by a necessary process of adaptations in the face of the necessary agreement. We have seen this in the position of the Prime Minister. Emotional charging could not hide the stress of the imposed agreement, because a conflict policy would be disastrous. So the deal is imperative. Whatever agreement is reached through the negotiation process we have said we will support it. But we want to see its content. I now come to the second point. What is the content of the proposal? We, ladies and gentlemen, only know the wrapping. How has the wrapping been baptized? He's been baptized as a bridge. What's this bridge? Is this a new memorandum? Is this an extension of the existing memorandum? Is it a little of both or both together? Let the government baptize it as he wants. What we have to point out is the great contradiction: on the one hand the government has denounced us, because we have not taken the six-month extension offered to us by the lenders - and that is true - while, when we have brought here to vote on the two-month extension, what we have heard is not said, because we have been prolonging the memorandum for two months and have been committed to the country. I want to remind you about the story that we had presented early in September - we said it in the budget, we said it before political developments - the five steps out of the memorandum and credit contracts, which were the closure of the agreement, the credit line, our relationship with the IMF and the discussion on debt relief with any versions of it, the parametric changes - which is foreseen by the 2012 Council summit agreement. You are now saying that we are entering a period which does not contain reductions in wages and pensions. You say we're out of Hardouvelis's mail, and we're on the other day. And I say you're chasing windmills and shading, because Hardouvel's mail is over, because we didn't agree to the senseless demands of our lenders, who asked us for further wage and pension reductions. We said that there is no need for this, and that workers and pensioners cannot suffer. So we didn't go to the deal. Because our lenders - I remind you - have asked for more than they should, considering that they will not have a stable government to negotiate in June. This was the case, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, because you have paraphrased the constitutional mandate of consensus and sought the fall of the government through the election process of the President of the Republic. So you are not saying in this proposal, which you have presented to us, whether we will have money from our lenders, that is to say, whether we will seek to take the doses that are cheaper, or we will get money from the market, which is more expensive. Who's gonna pay for this cost? The banks will pay for it? The economy will pay for it? Is the budget gonna pay for it? You do not say what impact any option will have in the banking system, in the market and in the real economy. You are not telling us whether this six-month extension you are asking will be a six-month hostage of Greek society, the economy and the government, or will be the beginning of a new memorandum, a third memorandum. Of course you have presented to us from the initial choice of balanced budgets a proposal for a surplus of 1.5%, that is to say, equal to the objectives which the 2014 budget had achieved. Accepted this option. It is one option that we have always wanted, that the correlations between the negotiation and the negotiation have not allowed us to succeed, because the correlations were negative. But I think it is a good choice to reduce the primary surplus, because it frees resources, which can go to the real economy or go to social cohesion. But we come to the third point, which is the account. Is the account, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, of the 1.5 % primary surplus? So I say - and you know that, I think, very well - that, due to developments, we have a reduction in revenue in December and a significant reduction in revenues in January: in December as against 2013 by about 1 billion and in January by about 1 billion as well. It's a total of about 2 billion. This reduction in revenues, when you say that we will have increased expenditure from various policies that you propose, even this lame programme of Thessaloniki - why is it not complete - when you say that you will go to the abolition of HNVIA, which you will replace with a property tax, but which you have not set, to see what you will collect, and when you say that you will go to tax-free of 12,000? So the question is: Will you charge the scales of the middle class to collect the same amounts of income tax? Because the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is simple and says that it has a budget of 55.6 billion and a cost of 55.7 billion. That's the bill. So bring us from the government's financial staff a sheet of revenue, expenses and where to collect them. This is not what you have brought us, and we fear that this account will not come out, that you will fall out or that you will be forced to charge more of the middle class and other social groups that have survived the crisis or, in the end, not to implement your objectives. The fourth point is that you have no plan for the real economy, liquidity and competitiveness. We have heard so much here, we have heard details and commonplaces, such as, for example, that the Prime Minister will reduce police officers at the Maximos Mansion - known things - and the agencies of the ministries. I've heard them a thousand times. Every new Minister and every Prime Minister say the same. But he did not tell us the plan for productive reconstruction, he did not tell us about competitiveness. He keeps the market on hold and insecurity. He doesn't have a plan for liquidity to deal with the trade balance. The agri-food sector, which is the comparative advantage of our country and which has improved the trade balance in recent years, was completely absent from the Prime Minister's statements. He tried something to say, Mr. Lafazanis, and said that the rest would be told by Mr. Apostolos. We're waiting. Watch out now. Let's go to the reforms. What are the reforms you referred to? The reforms you have mentioned are reforms that have no breath, no progressive direction. So where is the plan of progressive governance to follow in memorandum Greece? We had presented a plan and expected that a new left government will at least have the inspiration of changes in the political system, which would be integrated into a constitutional change. Mr. Katrugalos has spoken, not here today. In his public speech, the Prime Minister said nothing. Have you forgotten? Where are the changes to be made to decentralisation, transferring responsibilities and resources to self-government? Why are you scared? What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of maintaining your partners in the government, the ANELs? Are you afraid of the legend that can break and disrupt the government? We don't care about the government. We are interested in Greece, ladies and gentlemen. But you must dare move forward. We have heard nothing about the political system, the simple analogue, as well. Who's Left? I saw a title today that says: 'Left Scent in Programmatic Declarations'. Of course, he referred to xenophobics, he referred to cohabitation arrangements. We'll vote for them. They were our policies. We handed over, Minister, the plan for citizenship to you. Mr Dolios handed it over, after very hard negotiation with New Democracy, and we expect you to bring it to the vote and see what your partners will do. We in these changes will be present here with a positive sign, as we have always done. What have you presented to us as changes and reforms? The new OECD tool. And - be careful - I read today from the newspaper 'AUGY', not to say that I took it out of my head: 'The toolkit will be translated as tailor made.' This means "the tailor's suit". So you're gonna sew us a suit. We found the tailor, and we miss the barber now! I repeat that it is the declarant of the newspaper “SAN” for the reforms that will be adapted by Mr. Gouria of the OECD as far as Greece is concerned. I say, therefore, that on the basis of this framework, I have the view that you are not facing the real problems, what the place needs, a great overthrow, which would be the result of a left-wing government. In conclusion, therefore, our criticism of what we have heard and of what we have not heard is as follows: in the case of the big issues we have heard general communities and repetitions. They're too tired of this. As far as secondarys are concerned, we have seen a detailed approach, such as how many cars we will get from the MPs, how many police officers from the ministers and all of this, which we have heard a thousand times and have tired the world. As far as the comprehensive draft of the negotiations is concerned, we have seen the wrapping. The contents we haven't seen yet. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, can I have a minute? It's annoying. The bell's annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u73	Sure. As much as you want. The tolerance of the Bureau is at your disposal. But then I'll analyse you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u74	I don't want any more tolerance. I'm a time supporter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u75	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u76	So I say that as far as the reform plan is concerned, it is without breath and progressive direction. I repeat, however, that we wish the government will succeed. We will support it, despite the fact that you did not ask us to do so, even though you did not accept our proposal for a National Trading Committee, which we have been repeating since 2012. Of course it is, on the basis of what I said, that we are not going to vote on the Programming Declarations. But we'll vote for the deal when you bring it here. We'll vote for the progressive changes when you bring them in. We are not the same, ladies and gentlemen. I remind you, Mr. Lafazani, that you will be chased by the fact that you did not vote for opening the accounts. You are talking about the greatest change that you will be presenting to our partners, the fight against tax evasion and corruption. You forget that the biggest change was the opening up of the accounts, which was the first time in Greece, it was made by the PASOK government and you did not vote for it. We shall therefore vote for changes in this direction. We will vote because we are a power of responsibility and we have paid the cost, because we are a power of responsibility. We hope - and I repeat - that thanks to the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people, for which we have contributed with our programme, so that there can be a better result, bring something better. We will not, however, allow you to indulge in these sacrifices and those labors of the Greek people, our efforts, our ideas and policies that you have found ready, especially the fact that you can now and are negotiating because Greece is standing. Because if they weren't up, otherwise it would be. Think of what was happening in 2009, when Greece had a deficit of 36 billion and now has a primary surplus, on which we can discuss and negotiate. Well, good luck to you, then! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. For restoring things and informing this House, because, Mr Colleague, you started by speaking on behalf of your parliamentary group, PASOK, and by saying that you are showing a tolerance to non-compliance with time - I suppose by yourself - I am informing you of the transparency that they have spoken by your parliamentary group: Mr Gregorakos from the seven minutes that he was entitled to speak nine minutes and fifty-eight seconds. Mrs. Fofi Gennamas from the seven minutes she was entitled to speak eight minutes and seventeen seconds and was the most time consistent. Mr. Andreas Loverdos from the seven minutes he was entitled to speak thirteen minutes and forty two seconds, and when I interrupted, he protested. Mr Kegeroglu Vassiliou, although he was not here yesterday, and we were making it easier for him to speak today with a Bureau decision and at the request of Mr Loverdou, one of the seven minutes he was entitled to speak ten minutes and forty-seven seconds. The leader of your party, Mr. Venizelos, from the fifteen minutes he was entitled to speak thirty-one and fifty-three seconds. You two of the twelve minutes you've been entitled to, you've spoken fourteen minutes and twenty-four seconds. Finally, PASOK speaks with one MP in each thirteen Members' circle, while its percentage is proportional to speak with one MP every twenty Members. So I think it is right that there should be a self-restriction in criticism of how freedom the Bureau leaves, because that freedom is enjoyed by all Members and that is our intention. Mr. Athanasios Pafilis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Madam President. I am tempted to say that if we were not in here, the meeting would be an exchange of congratulations between New Democracy and SYRIZA, PASOK and SYRIZA, Potami and SYRIZA, of course, with some parentheses, pressures, etc., as far as the forthcoming agreement is concerned. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] From now on, you've been disturbing? Think later what will happen. The Secretary-General of our party Dimitris Koutsoubas, as well as the MPs of the KKE who have spoken so far, have been placed in the programme statements. I would like to begin with the new agreement that seems to have been reached. Unless the official body of SYRIZA and all the newspapers, which write about the same and invoke - and probably rightly - sources from the Ministry of Finance, are disproved. It will be a new agreement, which will have a transitional programme of six months, no matter what it is called. After all, Mr Varoufakis said it: 'We do not care about the name', that is, whether it will be a technical extension of the memorandum or a bridge agreement. Of course, I am tempted to make a comment here too. A bridge agreement, however, promote an agreement - bridge you had from Mr Mitsotakis yesterday, clearly, as well as many congratulations. In substance it is the same, regardless of what it will be called, whether it will be called "new memorandum", "extension of the memorandum", "agreement - bridge", etc. What we predict from at least what we know and have heard with our own ears: Firstly, the memorandum of 2/3 or 70% remains and 1/3 will be replaced by equivalent structural measures. Usually - I wish to make a mistake - when we hear'structural measures', we understand new anti-grassroots measures. I say, I wish we were wrong. This agreement will be under the auspices of the OECD - all the charitable world organizations! - it will be with the support of the International Monetary Fund. Another charity for the workers! So we tell the workers: 'Fear the Danes and gifts by bringing!' Really, where did the declarations for the abolition of the memorandum go? As it came, you said, that's how it's going to go: with a law and an article. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u79	With an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u80	Where is he? Is that it? But here, now we have advanced things. We separate it: 70% is good, that is, friendly, and 30% toxic. However, we believe - to speak on such terms, because the Minister of Finance is using them very much - that, when you have 30% toxicity, the whole mixture is toxic. That's our point of view. "Because we are wise people," said Mr. Varoufakis, "we will of course accept and have no objection to the 70% application." Is that what you told the people before? On the contrary. What were you talking about? You said that the Memorandum is a disaster, that the Memorandum is a throat, it is Armageddon - and so it is - and so there is no discussion. One thing goes hand in hand: to abolish it by a law. We don't say you've been fucking up, because you've already done it for a long time. We say, however, that you cannot tell the people that the memorandum is divided into good and evil. This, in our view, is a mockery. Why? Because the Memorandum has a single philosophy - something you have said. What's the Memorandum? It is a package of unpopular, barbaric measures implemented separately and depending on the country, in all capitalist countries today. But here it came abruptly, quickly, literally cracking the workers, and it had a goal: to put the crisis on first to those who are not to blame, to impoverish them, and to create conditions for the recovery of the capitalist economy and the profits of the big capital. Isn't that right, Mr. Catrugale? That's what you were saying, or whatever. So you can't separate it, because you objectively have philosophy. Even if we disagree with each other, it has such a philosophy. Now what? It has a philosophy to reduce the price of the labour force, to depreciate it completely, so that the capital can invest. Leave what you say, because we've all been reading it for many years. Let this go, that competitiveness is not dependent on labour costs. It depends very much on whether you want us to analyse this. Secondly, it has the philosophy of eliminating the social sector as much as possible for two reasons: one is not to pay the state there, but to save money to finance entrepreneurs and big capital and the other to open up an investment area in the social sector. So because we have heard a lot of things here, tell us: Will you dismantle the schools? Will you abolish private health? Let us see, in other words, how much the declarations are worth, for example - I am not saying names - of the Minister of Education, that we are in favour of public, free education. Will you abolish this? Will you abolish private individuals in general in the field of health? Oh, no. Thirdly, the memorandum was intended to privatise and some other measures. That was the Memorandum. So what happened to the memorial that was such a barbaric? We accept 70% of the measures - we do not know what they are and we reject them! The Memorandum is not a list of measures that you take seventy and thirty you leave. It has a single philosophy, the one I told you and I don't imagine that anyone, at least serious, analyst can question it. So the memorial goes. There goes the commitment. Secondly, you said 'we are not negotiating with the troika, but with the institutional partners'. Honestly, are you kidding us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u81	Now you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u82	Because it's such a thing. What does it mean 'do not negotiate with the troika, but with the institutional partners'? Who are the institutional partners? The European Union, one third of the troika, the European Central Bank, another third and the International Monetary Fund. You negotiate with all three separate people, you say, but not all together. "No Yiannis, but Giannakis", or with two or one "n", as the Minister of Finance likes. So we say that the agreement that seems - and I do not want to analyse it - is on the same path of capitalist development, on the same road as the European one-way road, as I will say below, on the same road as the workers here. Of course, some crustaceans may also be secured, which were guaranteed to a certain extent with the previous government and possibly more so that we are not entirely the same. So we will tell the Greek people: no rest. We realise very well and more than others that the Greek people celebrated - as long as they celebrated - or rejoice, because they left a government that made life inviolable to him, which literally sent him to hell. We understand that very well. But we want to say this. The question is not to leave a government, but to leave the policy pursued by the previous government. The policy followed by previous governments on the same road, on the road to the Euromonstrous road, was on the road to capitalist development. That is why we say to the Greek people, to the worker who feels a relief - and that is normal and human, and we understand it - not to be reassured, but to the contrary. No good and good days come that some describe them with ostro, and it is understandable from a human point of view. There are difficult days, because the memorandum is gone, but the laws are here, because those who have led the people, the workers in hell not only in Greece, but throughout the world - and finally stop this European fairy tale, 20% of the inhabitants of the members of the European Union live below the threshold of poverty - the factors that led to it in hell are here. It is not just a question of being here, it is also not questionable, Mr Voutsi, either from you or from anyone else. With them you're going to solve the problems with those who sent the world to hell. It is, then, an undeclared war. Don't you think? We agree. We say that the war that brought about the humanitarian crisis that you are saying is preached. We do not accept this term, it is abstract in general. But for the sake of the debate, we should accept him. Indeed, it is a war that is sound, hard, inhuman war, with millions of workers victims. What war is this, really? We say it's a class war, tough and barbaric.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u83	It's the memos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u84	Don't rush, my colleague. We say that it is an attack on capital in these circumstances of the crisis and on this level of development of capitalism. And here we have to, if we agree, we should... Do we agree, Mrs. Fotio?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u85	What did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u86	We agree. So who fights who? Who's the opponent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u87	I said 'the memorials'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u88	The pathogens of the system? That's what they say. A rival who is it? What are the camps? We need to identify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u89	SYRIZA is the opponent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u90	These - you know - were not even said at the conventions of the first year of law. Not even there! Not even the first year of law school!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u91	Smart ones!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u92	Madam President, please do not interrupt the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u93	In other words, when we were all "fished" to talk, we were throwing no one like that. That's why a little seriousness doesn't hurt. What are the camps? We say, then, clearly - and we said it from the outset - that it is a crisis of capitalism genuinely, original, to simply Greek! What were you talking about? "Switches" on the Stock Exchange - do you remember them? - financial crisis, etc. Do you remember all this? So to determine who the opponents are. Why don't you name them in here? The word 'capitalism' has not been heard by anyone unless I am wrong. If anyone told her, forgive me. However, it has not been said from the government's point of view. And we all know each other here. So who are the opponents? We say clearly that on the one hand it is the working class, the popular strata and on the other hand it is the monopolies, capital and their imperialist associations, namely the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, NATO, the OECD and everything else. These are the real rivals. They brought people to hell. Why don't you call them? If we are wrong, will we also ask everyone in the New Democracy - do you not enjoy, ladies and gentlemen - the question: 1% of the world population, according to information from the Americans, has 99% of the world's wealth and 99% of the world's population owns 1% and you are all looking for pathogens? Is that so great an acquittal of the capitalist system? Do not dare to say that it is barbaric, that it has now rotted, that it sends humanity to hell and that it must be overthrown, but say indirectly or directly that we will manage it better? That is the basic contradiction and it must be resolved. This contrast will be solved with hard class struggle and overthrow, with social revolution. Otherwise, this contrast was never solved in history. That is our opinion and is confirmed by reality itself. And in order for there to be popular sovereignty, this cannot be done with various crowns, but only when the wealth-generating people, i.e. the workers, the populace, take it and manage it themselves and build another society. So, here, they don't fit any dilemmas. You can't be with both of them. You'll either be with the workers and the people or you'll be with the monopolies. Mr Baltas - you will allow me - yesterday he said that Marx said the working class would release its oppressors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Madam President. If you want, give me the time of my dentistry, so I won't talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Paphie, I was wrong, and I put you 15 minutes while you have 12. You have the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u95	Good. So we say to Mr Balta that something else Marx said and he did not say that unless we read him selectively. Marx said: “I didn’t find out the class struggle. This was done by bourgeois philosophers."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u96	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u97	The new theory that our theory brings - I will tell you the page, we will return to the universities again - is that, in order to build an urban society, where the struggle of classes leads? Can I tell you the forbidden word? The dictatorship of the proletariat. That's what Marx said. He didn't say the working class would release the bourgeoisie. He said that a prerequisite for this is to break the bourgeois order. I don't mean as faces, but as a class. This is, in our view, the decisive aspect. One thing, then, is that you can't make a philosophical policy when the capitalists have it. Does anybody else have another prescription? Where did he get tested where he ended up? To the wildest capitalism. The second issue is the European Union. I'll say it a little quick, though I won't talk again. So I can use my time if the Bureau allows me. When you start with the position that it is unnegotiable - for the people I mean - our position within the European Union, you need to explain to the people and what it means. What is the European Union? It has been many years since 1980 and then with the Maastricht Agreement and all the rest. What were we talking about? That the European Union is a union of capitalist countries and aims to serve the interests of capital. When the Maastricht Treaty was passed, you told us 'politically retarded' within this Chamber - I was rapporteur at that time - because we said it would lead to barbarism. Today, what do you have to say to the people, who have been telling them that there is no other way, that there is the European Union alone? What does experience show today? We are not talking now about predictions, although they are of great importance to the political parties. Is there a serious man today who can claim to be a pro-Cypriot for the European Union? So when you respect the reactionary European Union, the European Union of capital, when you submit to it, will you not necessarily apply European directives? What are you gonna do? You'll be applying them. It was also stated in the Programmatic Declarations. Do you not keep saying that 'we do not question the institutional framework'? What is the institutional framework? He said that 'we disagree with the institutional framework'. Well, well? You put an asterisk on it. But you are obliged, when you say that I am'respecting and following the European Union', to implement the policy of competitiveness and of the service of capital. Let me not analyse too many things. So the main political problem in order to get out, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, is the exit from the European Union and those who produce the wealth of taking it, that is, popular power and socialisation of the means of production. Is that what we're talking about today? Oh, no. We've heard of twists, about a lot of things. Has there been any talk here, even to prepare the world from the ruling party? I am not saying, of course, by the allies, not because I underestimate, but because they have a shared view. Any such conversations? Did you hear anything but someone who said about socialism? Is this a conversation going on here today? In other words, to change power, so that there can be a philosophical solution? But nobody's gonna say, well, is that where you're referring it all? I wanted to say - we did not, but we will do so now - that: to those who dare to tell us that we are not interested in today, to stop because it is at least immoral. Because the communists - with their weaknesses, with their problems - melt their shoes, they go up out of the factories, they have their free time, they leave their children, they make some modern sacrifices - perhaps smaller than those of older generations - so that they can raise the world up when others get disease permits and do not even participate in the strike. And I'm saying that in general. Therefore, we are concerned, we fight every day for the slightest, least problem. That's our story. We are also interested in the smallest problem in which people may be relieved. Because the more the world with its struggle realizes that it can win, the better it can perceive and the great overthrow it has to make. We did not only make theatres in the House - some, of course, smile - nor go to the television tours, make statements and go. We sit three and four hours, good or bad. It doesn't matter. We're going to be judged by the world. We are therefore also fighting outside - which is always decisive - both within the House and with proposals that have nothing to do with socialism, in that they are socially fair. How many law proposals haven't we made? How many of us haven't testified? We want to clarify our attitude to the government and in this area. We say that whatever really relieves the people and gives them even a few little breaths, we will support it. We were never petty. Even with other governments, we did. But to be for the benefit of the people and not just to be seen. We will be against combatant, labour opposition, defending the interests of the people. We will fight with all our forces to reconstruct the labour movement. We will fight for the formation of the social, popular alliance. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to unite the people in a classic way, regardless of what you want - from what it votes for and what it can temporarily believe politically. That will be the great power. This will be the momentum given by the people when their class interests are united and perceived. This is the popular social alliance that will strive to extract conquests. That is why we want the movement not to applaud any government but to fight, to set targets, to increase people's solidarity, but to fight for the abolition of monopolies, to socialism. Madam President, thank you very much for your tolerance. Mr. Paulakis said a mandarin very good and very worthwhile. The mandarin says: "At the time of manhood and at the price the debt will be a monk, and let me be the last." Will you tell me how I know her? Did I copy it? This manda, ladies and gentlemen, was dedicated by a Cretan at the Cretan Conference of the JRC in 1991. When everyone worshipped capitalist barbarism, when everyone was subdued to the new barbaric world, when they hailed the fall of the wall and that we enter a new period of peace and cooperation, then the late Tritsis said to our conference: “Keep the red flags high! It's coming back in the middle ages, it's coming black days!' Yeah, that's what we did. We stayed up when the others worshiped. Step back we are not going to do, and that is why, as you can see, we cannot vote for Programmatic Declarations of Capitalist Management, Planning Declarations of a poor house, Programmatic Declarations of new austerity and a mere life. It would be as if we were not our own role, but the historic role of the working class itself. It would be like saying to the world "where you deserve everything, get some crumbs." No, we're telling the workers to fight to get what they own and we're not going to take a step back, no matter how much pressure they have. Because life itself requires a powerful Communist Party, it requires a people's movement that is at the forefront, to open a path to the great overthrows that some have denied, both theoretically and practically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr Colleagues, I understood that you might not even answer a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u99	Oh, no. That's it. I've said it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u100	Thank you for making it easier for the Bureau. Mr. Mitsotakis, it's your turn for your dentistry. You have six minutes. You are therefore speaking from your position under the Rules of Procedure, unless you want us not to apply the Rules of Procedure in this respect. In the meantime, I am announcing the next speakers. The Deputy Minister for Health and Social Security will be followed by Mr.Pyroles for fourteen minutes, then by Mr.Danellis from Potami for seven minutes, by Mrs. Prodi from SYRIZA for seven minutes, by Ms. Kanellis from the Communist Party of Greece for seven minutes, by Ms. Charalapidou from SYRIZA for seven minutes. You have the floor, Mr Mitsotakis, for six minutes and will be chaired by the chosen colleague, Mr Kaklamanis, fourth Vice-President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go along with Mr Pafile' s encouragement to congratulate some in this Chamber, because with what I have heard from the Deputy Minister for Administrative Reform, it would at least be paradoxical to congratulate him on his speech. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] I'm on my way, saying the Minister said a great lie. He told a lie that I had commanded that irreversible judicial decisions should not be enforced. I want you to seek out, Minister, from your services how many irrevocable decisions have been made on my own government. In fact, you said - you also tabled a form in the Minutes - that this is certified by this document. This document, Minister, is all it says is that there are still outstandings in irrevocable judicial decisions, and it says below that it is noted that the number of outstandings in this data is constantly changing, as almost daily requests from bodies for appointments are being sent, on the basis of the above cases. So no mandate has been given by me and I ask you to withdraw and seek from your services how many irrevocable decisions have been made on my own government. That's when it comes to restoring the truth. I understand the Deputy Minister. Possibly because he is a new Minister, he has no full understanding of his portfolio. I realise that it has been going through a long time giving interviews to Greek and foreign media, so maybe he still doesn't know some basic data on his portfolio. I'm sure he'll get acquainted with them in time. The most impressive of what I heard was the claim that the Greek State in 2010, when it had about nine hundred and thirty thousand employees, was on the European Union's average in terms of the size of the public and the cost of serving this public. We would never have achieved, ladies and gentlemen, primary surpluses if we had not managed to contain the size of the public, significantly limiting fixed-term contracts and following an aggressive policy of new recruitment for pensions, the well-known 'one to five'. This is what finally allowed us to have a public sustainable, not to be the public vertebrae for public finances, not to suck off the public labors of private initiative. If your purpose, Minister, is to restore the public to the size that was in 2010, to go out openly and say it, that the country needs a much larger state than it has today, and, of course, to explain from where you will find the resources, so that you can finance such a large state. You have spoken - and you have spoken many times - about unconstitutional redundancies. You're a constitutionalist, too. Do you not know that the constitutionality of decisions concerning availability are judged by the Council of State? Do you know of a decision by the Council of State which has not justified the co-responsible Ministries? If so, why don't you testify to her in the Minutes? Unless the concept of anti-constitutionalism is part of this broad debate that almost all the anti-constitutional is unconstitutional and, in any case, that we do not like and that it does not comply with the rules of our own ideology, we will baptise it as an anti-constitutional one and we will be consumed in such a narrative. So I would expect you as a constitutionalist to be a little more careful when you talk about anti-constitutional redundancies. You have every right, of course, to re-entry those who have been made redundant, but then you have to explain to the House and to the Greek citizens that, by reintroducing school guards and cleaners, you will not hire nurses to the intensive, nurses, auditors to the tax evacuation mechanism, because - I remind you and you too - the number of recruitments for 2015 is already set and the appropriations in question have been entered in the budget. Fifteen thousand four hundred are approved recruitments by the Governing Council for Reform. I imagine that in your free time you will have found the time to study the relevant minutes, to be aware of what kind of recruitment has been approved. Therefore, of course, you can reapprove the workers made redundant and the workers at the ERT, but you should then explain why you will not recruit specialties that are really crucial to the functioning of the state mechanism. I was really impressed by the convenience with which you devoted all the reform work that was done at the Ministry. You didn't find anything good to say. You are the only Minister - from those who, at least, have heard in the Chamber - who has dealt with all the work that has been done with such disarmament. I wonder whether the new agencies, for which hundreds of civil servants have worked to evaluate the structures and finally have organisations that are simpler, more efficient and without unnecessary general addresses, do not constitute an important reform section? Anyway, what are you going to do? Are you going to bring back old agencies, divisions and divisions with no workers? Is this really the way public administration will be served? You have also referred to the system of heads of state, which you want to change. Explain exactly what you do not like in the system of heads. You do not have to say 'yes, that's what I do not like the system', say, for example: 'I don't like interviewing the ADP and I want something different'. Aren't you going to tell us what system of supervisors you want? I would remind you that the system of heads of state is currently in force. There are general managers who have already submitted their applications. In the Programming Statements, won't you tell us what system of heads you want? For disciplinary reasons, why did you not tell the House that I gave you the tradition of a draft law on the reform of disciplinary law, in which we will really be dealing with the problem of a fair holiday, which, under certain conditions, has indeed led to excesses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please be indulgent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u102	You'll have it for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u103	Thank you. Why didn't you say that, Minister, and you rushed in such comfort to excommunicate all the work? In any case, is the reintroduction of trade unions to the primary disciplinary bodies genuinely reformed? Don't we know what's been going on in public administration this long? Do we not know that all cases were actually covered by the participation of workers, who almost never voted in favour of the disciplinary reference of a worker? That's how you understand the new disciplinary law? This is what you will tell the OECD, when he comes to meet you to promote, Mr Lafazanne, the new government's reform programme, to tell him that these will be reforms with a national mark that we want to replace 30% of the memorandum that we will not keep, why do 70% like? If these reforms are the reforms, discuss them with the OECD and come and discuss them here at the National Representation. I shall close, Mr President, because I do not want to abuse time, with a reference to what Mr Lafazanis said. Mr. Lafazani, I really encourage you to rename your Ministry to "Ministry of Reformation and Taxation of Investors". I see you're totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u104	For the first leg.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u105	The question is whether the rest of the government agrees with you. The question is whether Mr Varoufakis agrees with you. If these are things that have been discussed in the Ministerial Council, and if, in any case, you believe that - and you believe it - you will be able to give an answer to the enormous problem of unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u106	You have, Mr Mitsotakis, given so many years of response to unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u107	You'll give yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u108	So let us not give the same answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u109	Don't dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, because we'll get away from time. The Members must also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u110	I heard Mr Hatzidakis say yesterday that you want investments without investors. He was wrong. No investment, no investment, no investment. It is very clear from your position. I think it is good that the government coordinates these issues so that we do not hear completely different things from you in relation to what Mr Varoufakis and the other members of the Ministerial Council have heard. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one comment on the point of order. I would have done it to Mrs Constantopoulos if she were to be chaired. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask the services of this House, which I understand are very consistent with keeping time for all speakers, to tell us how long the President of this House has spoken and to compare this time with the interventions of other Presidents in the respective debates. I imagine that this information will exist in the Minutes, so that we have comparable data at all levels and not just in terms of... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, close this bell! I'm coming down from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u111	Please, but I've already given you three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u112	I am going down, Mr President, from the Step. It is good if there is this policy - which I endorse - which will apply from now on to all Members. That's what you'll find me and Mr. Friendly Covenant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u113	Okay. On the subject of your observation to the President of Parliament, when he is here - and it will be for many hours today - I think she will answer you herself. It's not right for me to answer for her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u115	Before I give the floor to Mr. Army for fourteen minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, Mr Katrugalos is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u117	...I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from the Kastorea High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Catrugale, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u118	For a little while, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u119	Of course, you have the right, but only for two minutes, because they have spoken very few fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I will need less than two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u121	All right, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, simply because everyone has the right to his opinion, but not everyone has the right to his own data, to the issues that have been questioned by Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to say this: according to the OECD figures - 'OECD, Public Governance Reviews' 2011 - what was put into consideration by the Task Force and put to the attention of me, I am reading from page 71, translating from English: 'Greece has a very low level of employment in central government by 7.9% of the labour force. Employment in central government shall be lower than any other OECD country except Japan.’ As regards the issue of appointments on the basis of irrevocable irrevocable judgments, I shall read from my document, the Head of Directorate-General, on the following terms: ‘The number of appointments pending on the basis of irrevocable judgments shall be approximately four hundred’. That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I would like the floor for half a minute on staff. You said, for word, that I gave an order...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Mitsotakis, first of all I haven't given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u125	You're welcome, Mr. President. So I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u126	Here, you have the floor for a minute to tell us what the personal issue is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u127	You said that I ordered no irrevocable judicial decisions and that you have the relevant document to prove it. Please, I expect you to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u128	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u129	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor for a minute. Please stop this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u130	I'm gonna need less time, Mr. President. I said I have the service briefing that you gave this order. I have already submitted the relevant document.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u131	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u132	That's not what you said, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u133	That's great!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u134	Good! I think the misunderstanding has been resolved. Mr. Army, you have the floor for fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to repeat - because I have seen too many concerned speakers from the Civilian Opposition because we have not yet accepted the brilliant demands of the country's lenders - and once again, saying what previous speakers have said - the SYRIZA MPs and, above all, the Government's ministers, that we are neither blackmail nor fear nor retreat from our election plans and we will honour and fully respect the recent people's mandate. With determination, boldly, consistently, with the activation, support and control of the people, with the international solidarity of the peoples of Europe and the exploitation of our international support, we will, as a government, be able to make its troika and its disastrous memorials before. In this direction, after I say on behalf of the government that this government guarantees pensions for all pensioners up to the last euro, after we repeat this guarantee, I should like to say some programming guidelines that we will have in the portfolio for which the Prime Minister has given me political responsibility for social security. Firstly, our Government does not discuss and accepts the troika's demands for insurance and pensions. This means that our government is going to stop - it has already stopped - the new anti-social crime, which was preparing to the detriment of pensioners and which does not - and it does not already - implement what the previous government has agreed with the troika through the well-known e-mail of the Minister of Finance, Mr Hardouvelis. Therefore, the new Government will not proceed to what the new government had agreed, nor to increase the retirement age limits for minimum pensions, nor to limit the beneficiaries of the CSR and to abolish the CSR from 1-1-2016, which the previous government had agreed, nor to limit the beneficiaries of the privileged benefits and to abolish them from 1-1-2016, which would incorporate them into the minimum guaranteed income, nor to abolish early retirements before sixty-two for women working with minors, for disabled persons, for workers in heavy and unhealthy occupations. Secondly, we will fully restore the public, universal, redistributive nature of social security. How are we gonna do that? We will do so directly by abolishing or modifying provisions of Laws 3863/10 and 3865/10 or other laws by which from 1-1-2015 the Social Security System was converted into a capitalisation, guaranteed by the State only the so-called basic pension of EUR 360 monthly and with the remaining part of the pension being considered, converted and mutated into an individual reward. Thirdly, we have already put brakes on the new pension reductions for 2015 and then on the suspension of application and then on the abolition of the Memorandum of Understanding, which would reduce - as I said - from 1-12015 to 1-12015 continuously and continuously over the next few years, the main, supplementary pensions and one-off benefits, and with which provisions, which we suspend and abolish, would continuously increase the retirement age limits on the basis of the life expectancy. We are therefore suspending the application and then cancel the new method of calculating pensions, i.e. by n. 3863/10 and Law 3865/10, new reductions in main pensions from 1-1-2015, and for those who established their right to retirement from that date. Furthermore, with regard to the NRV planned and budgeted in 2015 by the previous government that the number of beneficiaries would be reduced under stricter income conditions, the mandate has been given and the NRV will be paid this year normally, as was paid to date. Fourthly, we are immediately abolishing the 'death clause' in supplementary pensions. We are suspending the application and then abolishing the zero deficit clause on supplementary pensions and we will review for the best of the mathematical formula in one-off benefits. So we have already cancelled the new 8% reduction of supplementary pensions planned by the previous government since 1 March 2015 - there was a draft ministerial decision, from the first day I went to the Ministry, we turned it back - and the total new reductions in supplementary pensions of 15% for 2015, which the previous government had planned and budgeted. It had done so on the basis of the current zero deficit clause. As far as the subsidiary funds of the trustees are concerned, these commitments will also apply to them and, moreover, we will suspend the provisions abolishing the autonomy of their subsidiary funds, with the aim of dialogue with their trade unions to abolish these provisions. Fifth, under the rule of law, our Government will respect all the rights established under the law, so that the insured can finally gain the necessary certainty in their retirement opportunities and avoid dangerous overturns in their life planning from now on. Sixthly, the restoration of the plundering of pensions and insurance rights for insured persons and the rights of people with disabilities that took place in the four-and-a-half years of the memorandum will gradually be based on the pace of reintroduction and recovery of our economy, starting first with the low-pensions. Therefore, as a first measure in this direction, and in particular as a measure to tackle the humanitarian crisis, our Government will re-evaluate the tenth pension, namely the Christmas gift, to the low-pension pensioners, with monthly pensions under seven hundred euros. Seventhly: we have set as our objective the faster award of pensions and one-off benefits, so as to stop the shame of waiting for pensioners for one to four years. This will be done not by wishing, but by returning to those available - about two hundred, I have contacted the Minister responsible - they have been made redundant by the insurance funds with the institution of availability last year, with the necessary staff recruitment, focusing mainly on the inspection departments for the evasion and also on the insurance funds, that is to say, the pension agencies' benefits, and also on the completion of the 'information' of the insurance fund services. We have supported and upgraded all the information tools and systems operating in the Ministry of Labour in recent years, or we will also create new ones, with the aim of contributing to more effective control of tax evasion and to better and without delay serving the insured and pensioners. Eighthly, we will rethink, with the aim of abolishing the requirement of the hundred days of insurance for each year during the last five years prior to pensioning for reduced pensions, so that the unemployed and the unemployed - and even older - are not deprived of these five years and that patients at that time, who have otherwise completed the other pension conditions, do not be deprived of their pension. Ninth, we will be reducing immediately - when I say immediately, I mean next week - the hundred and a hundred and twenty seals a year that were foreseen to date for the visa of health books. We'll reduce them to fifty meanings, where a hundred were predicted, and sixty, where a hundred and twenty were predicted. Members of the Second Piraeus, 2nd Athens know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u136	Fifty now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u137	That concludes the extension - and you have rightly given it - on 28 February and we will extend it. That's why I said next week...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u138	It's fifty, not sixty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u139	Fifty. The extension, Mr Kegeroglu, which you correctly gave and we voted for, was up to 28 February. Next week we will prolong it, and not just will we extend it, but I said that we will cancel what was foreseen, the hundred and a hundred and twenty, and we will now go as a permanent condition and by law to fifty marks. Tenth, rationalisation of the composition and operation of CEPDs and the qualitative upgrading of the disability certification centres, so that tens of thousands of AMEs are not caught in them, will be made by promoting immediate measures for more rapid decisions on the certification of disability rates and the general health situation of insured persons, with the aim of waiting for AMEs, which in fact, Mr Kegeroglu, has improved over the last two months, to reach two months. If there are delays in making decisions on people with disabilities from disability certification centres without their own responsibility, we will not leave them at this time without pension, without their prerogatives and, above all, without health care, which, if everyone else needs it, is needed because of their state of health as much as ever. We will also make sure that existing legislation is applied to the payment of the proposed misconduct by the SME when they request their disability to be determined - EUR 46 - not by the insured and the SME, but as provided for by the law of their insurance fund. I mean, keep the law. Secondly, uninsured people who do not have an insurance fund to give them the EUR 46, we should relieve them. Because uninsured people are presumptionally and unemployed. In order to determine their disability, 46 euros are two days of the unskilled worker, who, if they were to give them, do not have them. Of course, the Special Scientific Committee referred to in Article 7 will be re-established to review the list of irreversible diseases, with a view to their justified scientific enlargement and to updating the list of determinations of disability rates. Eleventh, we will deal with the insurance problems of free professionals and those who are subject to the self-employed funds, so that they themselves will be financially relieved over the next few years of the crisis, but also for the respective insurers to improve collection and to ensure more revenue. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I need two minutes, Mr. President. What are we gonna do about it? Decriminalisation of debts in their insurance funds. It's a hunch. They owe their own funds. They don't owe the insured money. The law of the junta has to go. Secondly, the view of their health books, that is to say, that they and their children should have health care. Thirdly, an improvement in the regulation for the option of selecting a lower class of insurance. You were right, Mr. Kegeroglu, up to two steps. We will look at improving it and giving them other possibilities. Finally, it is easier to retire the self-employed people who fulfil all the conditions, age and other, pensions, and if they owe more than 20,000 euros, they do not get their pensions. The limit of 20,000 euros of their debts will increase it so that they can also receive the funds, the OSH, particularly the other self-employed funds which have a problem of income, where nothing would be collected, with a set-aside of one quarter of their pensions. Twelfth, we will keep our explicit election commitment to restoring the monthly pension of the OGA to uninsured over-ages and homosexuals. Thirdly, social security revenues, of course, need support, so that we can do what we have said, but they are completely costly. It is possible to cover the new revenue we will have - if the country's national productive reconstruction plan goes ahead with the replacement of the memorandum - with the extraordinary employment aid programmes, - so that they are more workers and give contributions - through effective labour market controls, by simulating the minimum wage for young people under twenty-five years with workers over twenty-five years, by reintroducing the minimum wage, as the relevant Minister of Labour will call it, at EUR 751 - because this also increases contributions - by restoring collective labour agreements - with effective labour market controls - and, of course, by limiting flexible employment to the benefit of full-time and stable labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u140	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u141	I'll be done in a minute. At the same time, in order to strengthen public funding of social security, the Government will reintroduce to a certain time its tripartite funding, strengthen it as a measure to restore its reserves that have been robbed by increased additional public funds, without burdening taxpayers and bank depositors and, in particular, will finance it by the National Wealth and Social Security Fund and its income from natural and mineral wealth, and by exploiting, without selling and privatising, the movable and immovable property of the public, with a large part of its revenue. Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u142	Mr Minister, you have said the word 'final' five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u143	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u144	Trade union practice, bad habits, but please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, because you did not preside before and because the ministers had the opportunity for two, three, four more minutes to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u146	Because I am presided over now and I have seen how many fellow Members have spoken only, which is why I am telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u147	The last measure I wanted to say is that we will combat tax evasion, great scourge, with various measures, in particular, strengthening control mechanisms, by simplifying and codifying insurance legislation. We'll establish a code of insurance law. We will also issue a useful guide to workers and employers, and we will be promoting as a ministry for informing workers' insurance rights, so that we can combat tax evasion. Our difference from previous governments, particularly with regard to the huge debts of the insurance funds, is that we have a clear political will, that no one holds us, that we have no obligation to any one, and our government - since I said all of this, which is programme commitments - has as basic criteria the decisions and practices it has, the needs of the people and young people and the dignity of our country, as well as the fulfilment of our pre-election commitments. That is why, Mr President and honourable Members, we are sure that we will open up new hopeful roads for both our people and our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u148	I would like to thank you for the great honour you have given me to elect me Second Vice-President and I would also ask for your courtesy in this first appearance in the position of President-in-Office. In accordance with the instructions I have received from the President, I believe that four colleagues should speak, and then Mr Skourlets should speak. I would ask Mr. Danellis from Potami to come to Step and then Mrs. Diotis, Mrs. Kanellis, Mrs. Charalapidou and then Mr. Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the Government, like every Greek, and to wish her a success in its work for the good of the country and society. The Prime Minister rightly insists that Greece is not blackmailing. Similarly, the other Member States of the European Union are obviously not blackmailed. The European Union has managed to survive through culture, consensus and compromise. The logic of extortion is completely foreign and rejected in the European institutions. The image of the Somali pirate of Europe asking for ransom, threatening to lure the Eurozone into the abyss, almost cost us expensive in 2011 and 2012. The Prime Minister said the day before yesterday that he will not negotiate the pride and dignity of the Greek people. And who asked for that? Does he believe that, with our participation in the European Union, this is at stake? Let it tell us clearly, because other election balconies and the Step of Programming Declarations. The agitated history of modern Greece teaches that in critical times without solid alliances ruined it. And today we are in absolute isolation. The biggest difference in dealing with the crisis between Greece and the other countries that have entered support programmes is the stubborn refusal of our political system to consult and co-exist with the problems. Even now we refuse to realize that the crisis is too deep to withstand the shoulders of any party on their own. One of the bad traditions of the Left is that of praising, or baptizing, our desire for reality. Potami insists that the shift to realism, our reconciliation with the real world are a precondition for the success of the national effort. It is true that a large, but slow, turn is taking place in Europe. The European Union faces the distrust not only of the markets but also of its peoples. Objections to austerity are confusing as economically ineffective, socially unacceptable, politically destructive. The view is that the main objectives of economic policy must be the real economy, growth and competitiveness, that fiscal objectives are a tool and not an end in itself, the reduction of debt and deficits, not a rapid struggle, but a fight of endurance. However, if we remain on the European ship when this change of mind and not to be at sea, we must respect the rules that define coexistence in the privileged group of Europe, with the benefits and obligations, that twin sister of solidarity is responsibility. Do you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that our participation in the European Union threatens our national sovereignty? You have the illusion that outside the Union, because having to leave the Eurozone will say that we are leaving the European Union as a whole. And because the Balkans are not as we knew and they are close - they are heading towards Europe and the Eurozone - we will join the African nightmare reality. That will be our only choice. Could we at this time survive on our own? Only at European level can we exercise European sovereignty. " As the Left, dear friends of SYRIZA, I have never believed, and I do not believe that the end justifies the means nor that the enemy of my enemy is my friend. So, I never understood the selective affinity of ANEL - SYRIZA. But the rhetoric of the ANELs is an affront to the left of the right speech. Ladies and gentlemen, if the famous sustainability of the debt is a necessary condition for the viability of our national economy, the production of wealth and the subsequent creation of solid jobs makes the treaty possible. Even total debt write-off could be achieved if we do not get rid of the loan, the country will remain locked in the vicious cycle of deficits and debt. The design and support of a sustainable model of country redevelopment are all agreed that it will be based on the well-known areas of agriculture, culture and tourism, energy, the maritime economy and blue development. But there, where we have to agree at last, they are in the prerequisites for creating an attractive environment for entrepreneurship, since bankruptcy - we like it, we do not like - meant the end of state control. There is therefore a need for major reforms to rationalise the public, deserved sovereignty, combat corruption and red tape. The degradation of the state of the guilds and of the lobbyists who have diligently raised our political system for decades in the context of customerism and political solidarity can only be our first priority. Let's not forget that the Left over time and worldwide wanted to change everything. The Prime Minister invited us to join in the country's effort. But let us know what specific proposals to join us. Let us know if you have a complete plan. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Potami will be next to you if you attempt the big changes that have not been made, because there has not been the political will to become, the reforms that will finally make us a modern European state. Do not forget that tax discipline is the best friend of the welfare state. Dare the conflict with all kinds of interests, from the rodents of public procurement to the occupations of the public good of television frequencies and we, the Potami, will be there with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u150	Mr Dannelly, and the Bureau is pleased that you have not even used up the time. Mrs. Heroe has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite all the cancellation that the Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC tried to impose beforehand, especially in the world he listens to us, it is difficult for me to describe my emotion, for this enormous victory for the Greek people, for the movements, for the workers, for the youth, for the unemployed. In this step we have been up many times in previous years and we have tried with all our forces to reveal the trap that had been set up by the Memorandum Forces in the workers and in the country, a mortal trap that served only great private interests and the profitability of an oligarchy in Greece and Europe. We tried with all our powers to describe another way, a possible way out of the crisis and not to accept the thatsier-type one-way that New Democracy, PASOK and their partners were trying to impose. The enormous mobilisations of the people and movements in the early years of the crisis, but even the silent pot that it boiled down then - because in the world it was silence and not in the speech of the Prime Minister, as Mrs Gennimata and Mr Venizelos claimed yesterday - gave on 25 January a mandate to a left-wing government for a change of course. And if we had re-electioned right now, you know all of you and all of you that the Greek people's agreement with our efforts would have been much bigger. Ladies and gentlemen, many decades later the country's mandate was given to the Left. I think it has already been shown that we want and can, in spite of the enormous difficulties which we do not underestimate to the slightest extent - it seemed, the Prime Minister's Programming Declarations the other day - that we are committed - as he has said - to originalise and respect our commitments, which was unknown to that country. So we want to keep our moral and political stature where they have it anyway defined for the Left the struggles that have given thousands of people for justice, freedom and dignity in this place. These falsifications give us the strength and courage to the Greek Government to face up to all the difficulties of negotiating and the situation we receive in the country, the one and a half million people who lost their jobs, the country of the two and a half million people who live below the poverty line, the country of the kales, in the country of the waste of public wealth and nature, in the country of people who are deprived of rights, of the people who are drowned in the Aegean, just because they eventually put their profits above people. And in order to enforce all of this, they did not hesitate to deal in an authoritarian, repressive way with the agony that ate society, lead people to suicide, despair, indulgence, only care to build prisons, shield their luxury cars, hide from the people. That was an uproar and an uproar certainly economic and political, but also a moral one. That's why it's here, now, is putting an end to this nightmare of decay, which has dissolved people materially and emotionally. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the enormous responsibilities we take. The road is not a red carpet, but with the mobilisation of the people and workers we will succeed. We will be able to do it for us and for the peoples of Europe. The government's plan is realistic in the present circumstances, however much as yesterday Mr Voridis and Mr Dannelis tried to question it. We are determined and determined to observe it and honour the Greek people, who have not been afraid, despite all the campaign of terrorism that has taken place. We SYRIZA MPs and MPs, all left-wing people, will talk to the people in our areas, one by one, one by one, that this is the moment for all of us and for all of us. We don't want anyone reassured, gentlemen and ladies of the JRC. The moment to rely on the government and its program in all ways, in every corner, in every house, in every job, on every street in Greece is now. So dealing with the humanitarian crisis, the recovery of work, institutional reconstruction, as we promised in our programme in advance, and as the Prime Minister and the Ministers of Government announced in detail, is the answer to the programmes implemented by the neoliberal Monumentary Governments. All this is crumbs? I wonder. To say this more correctly, it is the healing of the wounds, so that we can stand up and attempt the productive and social reconstruction of the country, with a bias in favour of society and workers, in favour of our public wealth, in favour of justice, in favour of equality, in favour of freedom. We would like - and I would like to do so - to assure the Members of the New Democracy, who have listened to me today, that we are not actually going to do this, because our reality is not the same as theirs. Our reality is the reality of ordinary people. Your reality is not our concern. Our reality is democracy as it really should be. Our reality was written in hearts. Yours wants everyone to forget it. This battle we are fighting within and outside the country as a new government and a people together, if anyone doesn't understand it, is history itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u152	Mrs. Canelley has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. There was a lot of criticism of Mrs Constantopoulou. I would like to point out that it is one of Parliament's looser and more democratic functions. I've had 15 years and I'm able to say it. And I'm colluded with her. In fact, not on personal grounds, but on a point of order. It's been underneath. He knows how many times he had to abuse himself, break the Rules of Procedure itself, to be relaxed today. And this to restore things with every understanding of new people coming up to apply a Rules of Procedure with a feeling. Because we are talking about communityism, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, time, however agreed to be allocated, is a common time. Therefore, anyone who violates him or abuses time, steals him from the rest, does not steal him from the Bureau. Objections to other matters may arise where appropriate. But this to restore a balance. Take it as a human experience that has been here for 15 years and has been elected eight times. Because we are starting the debate like this, I will tell you that my understanding of this is perhaps the most important part I wanted to do today instead of going to comment on Programmatic Declarations. And I will not go to comment on the Programming Declarations, because, as you know, sharing with the Members is very clear about the things that have already been said. I have questions and I'll tell you. I am, however, interested in the question of education and that is what I want to talk about. I heard them very closely, even when I was not present. You have already begun the new ones and you understand that you can listen to the MPs even when you are not present. And it doesn't mean either absence or caption on the internet who he was and who he wasn't, counting empty chairs. Empty minds, empty languages and empty positions are the problem, not empty chairs here. It's a parliament. It's neither a pedophile nor a camp. And the way in which the honourable Member's opinion is being formulated here is quite degraded. So because we are talking about education, because I have heard Mr Baltas and because a lot of talk has happened about ERT and about journalists, I would like to tell you that I am a man who has been hanged in the kiosks. From the journalists, my colleagues! Consistent, acceptable, acceptable to anyone exposed. I don't want to talk personally at all. I would like to tell you, however, that the communists cannot be blamed here or anyone else for emotional derogations when emotionalism extends, which is perfectly understandable to anyone who has come here and feels awe, wants to speak, is moved. It's perfectly understandable and respected to me. I would ask you, therefore, not to put a roof iso-flat, "Kalatrava", above everyone's emotional burden. Let us all be judged like this. Because together with the other measures we have also put 'emotional meter'. I have been accused of becoming a Member of Parliament because I am a journalist, as '902' has been accused of his fate in capitalist conditions. But I have heard a number of things that we have to agree on. The Minister for Education cannot come here, who has an academic and philosophical position of gravity, and ends with a chip, which ends in a illustration, "Don't look for scandals, journalists, we will look for them and give them to you." Excuse me, but as a journalist, I think all journalists want to look for themselves and don't want any power to give them. That is where the idea is that we, as a Communist Party, cannot allow the satisfaction of the crumbs. Whether or not we are going to disagree politically on whether they are or are not crustaceans, whether they are closed or not, the capitalist wound that has been opened in the body of the people, this can be discussed. If it's a good stitch or if it's not a good stitch. If the wound is left open or the wound is not open. But to discuss the fact that we will be fully watery, forgive me, but there is no way that we can follow this process. I would like a rooftop for the journalists of private and state channels, who are burned by the sun in the summer and rained by them a day, to watch the various statements on the red carpet, rather than talks at a deeper level when we talk about things that do not cost. If we go to the things they cost, then we have to go to a political debate. And in the political debate, please very much, sentimentality can be tolerated, irresponsibleness cannot be tolerated. She's culturally also uneducated. It's not going to do us Europeans. That is, for example, that our negotiating attitude to the memorandum - I shall not go into the essence of the matter - cannot be described as 'the exit of the Messology'. It can't be de facto. What do you teach the children? That this is the Messologist's exit from the cage of the European Union? That the European Union is what? A democratic body, which has emerged from a historical need somewhere? I would not say that if he hadn't said in this House that 'a question goes on over Europe as if the question were to become a communist automatically, because once a ghost flew over Europe'. I would not say that if Mr Lafazanis had not been able to say that the European Union would have the fate of the Soviet Union, equating the Soviet Union to the European Union. I can't follow it. I'm completely impossible! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll ask you two minutes, please too. I am also unable to monitor perceptions that everything can be said in here is enough anti-communist. And they cease to be anti-communist when they are launched by left-wing colleagues. Forgive me. Twenty-three years I sympathize with the Communist Party. Asterometer, communistmeter if you want to put it on, you'll put it on. However, anti-Communism must also appear evidently and not because the European Union will have the fate of the Soviet Union. Because then you know how it sounds? Like the National Anthem, which was written for emotional reasons, but the content is not Soviet. That doesn't make Putin or Stalin or Lenin. It cannot be discussed here in the context of education and education outside, to support the European Union, to support NATO. I have heard words about 'Balkan provincialism'. Has Yugoslavia been cut and bombed by provincialism? The ethnic cleansing that has been done and the creation of states, protectors, what is it? If you want to open a debate, I'd be happy to hear it. Volunteer was also “Doctors Without Borders”. The first Prime Minister appointed in Kosovo. What do the Kosovars travel with? Since when is the Kosovars state? Naval documents travel the Kosovars. Passport they have from NATO. Do we have to come up with this and talk about it? Are we going to catch the past and make personal attacks? Are we going to do analyses and conversations? Are we going to say the Bridge Agreement is the Gorgopotamos Bridge? If it is time for this people to come out and defend their homeland, what are you going to say to him? In whose name? And we have had the debate on the European Union trapped. There must be a cage to get locked up. Negotiation is not a revolution. Let's deal with ten things. Negotiation is not a revolution. There was no revolution. We're not making the Messology exit from the Messology. The memorial isn't Messolong. The OECD toolbox is not a carofil.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u154	Mrs. Kanelle, because you know the plight of the congressman, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Please very much not two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u156	I've already given you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u157	I have seen colleagues who could misuse time twice because they spoke early. I ask you - and I am literally - two minutes. I have in front of me a text from Mr Varoufakis, published on protagon.gr, so that I too can go to the big questions that are in my head. In my mind I'm deceiving, and I'm filing it here. He's talking about "joyed" bankruptcy. It's April 2010. In fact, it says: 'It is time to embrace what we fear'. In 2010 he said: “It is not a bad thing to go bankrupt. We should go bankrupt here and now." Below it says: "Because if we go bankrupt here and now..." - Ignatius reminded him today, I am in favour of sources as a journalist - "...when bankrupt, you will go bad for five to six months and then you are the most valuable investment." I leave that in judgment, not on the left or on the right. Mr Varoufakis himself is speaking today in terms of cancer. Allow me, at civilisation level - all right, the Kenyan concept is "save capitalism from capitalists" - you cannot call the whole crowd out. Let's agree. You win. "My word has fed you and my bread has eaten it." You win. Nobody tells you you didn't win. Rejoice. Sure. You got the power. It's a bourgeois power. It's an urban electoral system. You got 36% plus the bonus. And, if necessary, the civil bonus in a civil regime. It is not popular sovereignty that yours is different from the people's sovereignty of anyone else who has not voted for you. And it's popular, 70 percent that's backing you right now. We can't get through to a political coup, which all of this does. I heard the Minister say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u158	Mrs. Canelle, please have it completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u159	I'm ending with a phrase. I'll let her hover. I read today from "SUNDAY". It's Mr. Thananos Panagopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u160	Mrs. Canelle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u161	Three words I'll read. The text we are going to give - they say circles of the Ministry of Finance - will have nothing radical. It will be a text that will look like it was filed by a New York lawyer."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u162	You're very welcome. I'm forced to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u163	If this is what HUNGARY says today, I need to bridge their radical one, the pleasing bankruptcy and respond to dilemmas. These dilemmas do not respond with an anti-communist view because no one celebrates the crumbs. The crumbs will be dealt with in front of it by the working class when it discovers that the Greek flag on board ships around the world does not involve Greek territory, Greek shipping, Greek workers well paid and strong NAT. Because, then, it's complicated...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u164	Mrs. Canelle, excuse me. Please, get it over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much. I'll finish right up. He can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u166	It is a disgrace to other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u167	Look. I can finish right now. I'm done. I will not call this anti-communist attitude. I'd think it was funny. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u168	I beg your pardon, but consider the position of the Bureau as anti-communist, which has given four minutes more, then I do not know what to do to be backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u169	Have you lost your sense of humor, Mr. President? You lost it. It's okay. I can give it to you. We're generous with the communists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u170	Mrs. Charalapidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u171	To go back to the government's Programming Declarations. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in five years today, we have been called, after reading the New Government's Planning Declarations by the Prime Minister, to discuss a government programme which does not have the stamp of the troika. This is a programming framework that lays the foundations for addressing the particularly critical issues facing the citizens of the whole country, particularly the world of this country's work, the humanitarian crisis, the enormous unemployment and the complete deregulation of labour relations for the benefit of employers. These are issues that the capitalist crisis and its neoliberal management have created through the memorandums. It is therefore the first time that, with the pure mandate of the Greek people, the programme proposed on the part of the government does not have at its heart the satisfaction of the wishes of the lenders, but - and it is the framework of the Programmatic Declarations announced by the Prime Minister - the fulfilment of popular claims and the fulfilment of the real needs of the workers and the unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, the governments from 2010 to 2014 with the memorials and in particular their enforcement laws brought heavy blows to the world of work, almost completely destroying the collective labour law applicable in our country for seventy-five years and resulting in the sacrifices of the Communists, the Left, the people of work. Governments have now become the institution of collective labour agreements with an empty letter, since 80% of the country's workers have been imposed on individual employment contracts. Governments in the years of the memorandum even banned unilateral recourse to arbitration, the Mediation and Arbitration Agency until it returns from the Council of State. However, even when the Council of State considered this to be unconstitutional, it was limited and reduced its role and essentially annulled. The governments of this country in the years of the memorandum on the pretext of curbing unemployment and creating new jobs have reduced the minimum wage by 22%, which was generally the case for most of the workers in this country because of the previous regulations - and by 32% for the new workers, leaving them as the only option for this immigration. We are talking, in other words, that in the years of the Memorandum, we have created a grid of strictly class-based discriminatory measures supposedly to address the crisis, which strengthened the profitability of large enterprises and, at the same time, strengthened the climate of labour, social insecurity, creating an environment of generalised employer arbitrariness. In order to be honest, ladies and gentlemen, with this environment we have to face up to today, with this daily employer's arbitrariness in the workplace. That is why the SYRIZA Government must dare to take those proposals in one direction, of course, which will call into question the absolute strength of the management right in order to reverse this relationship. I am returning, ladies and gentlemen, to the Government's Programmatic Declarations on Private Work, as expressed yesterday by the Prime Minister's mouth. The first question is the reintroduction of collective bargaining at the same time as reintroducing the expansion of the whole of the country's workers. Not even one worker should remain uncovered. A second question, reintroducing the three years, reinstatement, and the role and responsibilities of the Mediation and Arbitration Agency, so that the WMD is a real institution guaranteeing the rights of workers. A third question, equal pay for equal work, putting an end to unfair age discrimination relating to minimum wages. They treat the young people of our country as second-class citizens to make even more profits for employers. The new boys and young girls in this country, ladies and gentlemen, must be protected because they are the hope of this place. We want to build the future of our country, and we must build it in a direction of equality, democracy, justice and dignity. Point fourth, abolishing the release of redundancies, tightening the framework for collective redundancies, to return to the era before the memoranda, bearing in mind that the direction of the new government should be to justify redundancies, which is happening in almost all European countries. The direction must also be to ban collective redundancies in profitable businesses. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing the bells.]] Mr President, if I may, I would like one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u172	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u173	Fifth point, the reintroduction of the minimum wage to EUR 751 for all and for all, gradually contributing to increased productivity, thereby strengthening the income and purchasing power of the people's family and also financing the country's economy in this way, especially the small and medium sized enterprise. Ladies and gentlemen, two criticisms have been made in this Chamber since yesterday. The first criticism is zero criticism. It is the criticism that the measures announced do not help the people to the minimum, that they are crumbs for the workers. To them, to be well-meaning, I would suggest that these measures should be brought together to discuss the world of work. To see the immediate changes in the daily life of the wagers from the government’s proclaimed program. But there is also a second criticism that says that the programme concerns election announcements, that the programme gives too much in a suffocating context. So, to those who make this criticism on the other hand, I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, welcome. Welcome to page change. In this change of page with a new government at the wheel of this country, a government with SYRIZA, we call on all workers to join forces. No, let me, on the basis of the thirteenth wage, namely the gift of Christmas or EUR 751, but on the change of direction, on the change of class division, on the change of popular sovereignty, on the change of dignity, the independence and the rectification of the working people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u174	Ms. Charalapidou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u175	I'm done. To recruit workers to support and deepen this process, to change and to strengthen what the Prime Minister said last night: democracy everywhere and first and foremost democracy in factories, businesses and services. That's what the world of work is asking, and I'm sure we'll win it together with his struggle. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u176	I address the ladies and gentlemen of the government to say that on the basis of the list left to me by the President, the Minister for Labour will receive the floor for eighteen minutes. He was supposed to have contacted his colleagues, because Mr Skourletis precedes Mr. Skourletis, who, since he is here, will speak after the Members who will follow Mr. Skourletis and then Mr. Flamouraris. I will follow after the list, as the President has left me. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been several hours of discussion on the government's planning positions and I would like to make some points before I go to my main position. Although we have had a resounding and convicting result for the previous coexistence, I think you do not show, gentlemen, that you have reached the right conclusions. You are still not aware of what SYRIZA has been saying for years, that the Memorandum, other austerity policies and the attempt to find a sustainable solution to the debt and its service. You continue in the next few days of the election outcome - and we have heard it here, in this Chamber - to identify the memorandumary policies and the negotiable negotiation that our country has to make with regard to credit contracts, so that we can find what we said a moment ago, a sustainable solution to the debt. So you stick to something that was wrong from the outset and to something that the Prime Minister had emphasised many times in this Chamber. You are insisting on a mistaken estimate that Greek debt was sustainable, that the policy followed led to its service. But your numbers are disgusting, his expulsion. The results of this policy that leveled the economy and society, don't you see them? I think that even at the last hour, at this critical moment for our country, at the historic moment for our country, you must also correctly interpret the election result, but above all you must choose a side. The negotiation has begun and we do not understand whether you are with the great majority of the Greek people, the much larger than the one that gave our Government, or whether you are on the side of Mrs Merkel. You must give us a clear political response at least to this evening. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Antonopoulou, Mrs Fotio and I have the political responsibility of a ministry which records the results of the Memorandum Policy. Every day we see with numbers and numbers what a memorandum means, how it was translated into the lives of workers, in what jobs they lost, in which companies they closed down. So, firsthand, we realise what a monumental political and capitalist crisis means, especially the neoliberal globalised model. We are fully aware of the great difficulties of the time that we live and of the framework within which we are called upon to act. For our Government, however, it is not just a priority to upgrade work, to protect it and to regain it, but it is a vow of faith in the world of work. We do not go hand in hand with today's reality, which has made our country a champion of Europe's unemployment, leading young children to immigration, which is crushing the lives of the long-term unemployed, especially in older and middle-aged ages. Perhaps the most important policy of the memorandum governments of the previous period, which played a decisive role in the poorening of a large part of society and in the creation of the vicious cycle of recession, was the abolition of labour rights and the reduction of labour costs, the persistence of extreme neoliberal dogmas, which have been the continuation of policies since the 1990s and have been on the rise and alibi to the crisis. They increase the cost of labour to a fundamental factor in increasing the competitiveness of the economy. This is done without taking into account the other parameters, but also the results of a 50% reduction in the purchasing power of workers as a result and the development of the Timarith, tax bleeding and a reduction in social benefits. The dissolution of industrial relations was the core of this extremist neoliberal experiment which was carried out in a violent way at the expense of our people. The government, loyal to its commitments to the Greek people, intends to put an immediate end to the unsuccessful and socially unjust austerity policies that have led the world of work to despair and the economy to collapse and reverse the grim reality in the workplace. Where collective labour rights law and in particular collective bargaining has been completely dismantled, while in the field of individual labour relations flexible forms of employment dominate, the liberalisation of individual and collective redundancies and the emergence of the management right to an absolute regulator of working conditions. Depreciation of social negotiation, the degradation of the social state and the deterioration of labour market control mechanisms have enabled all forms of undeclared and uninsured work to be strengthened and uninsured, the violation of minimum labour rights and the continuous increase in working jungle. These three areas of work need to be adopted, and in an urgent way, targeted legislative intervention, which, on the one hand, will immediately restore serious injustices and alleviate the low-popular strata and, on the other, will stem the recession, allowing the labour market to restart in the context of the productive and social reconstruction of a seated country. With regard to collective labour rights, I would like to say that this sector of law undoubtedly brings the highest degree of deregulation over the last five years. Rehabilitation as a first step in the previous memorandum levels is not an easy case, but very well thought-out direct legislative initiatives are needed on the following issues: Collective negotiation. For our Government the restoration of collective bargaining is a clear pre-election commitment, which forms part of the general medium-term objective of the State's subsidiary and complementary role in the field of regulating the conditions of remuneration and working conditions for all sectors and businesses in the country. The reintroduction of the principle of more favourable regulation and expansion and the mandatoryity of collective agreements will allow for an increase in the number and scope of workers to be covered by the relevant collective arrangements. At the same time, the reintroduction of the six-month term of post-energy with full restoration of its legal content will provide time for social interlocutors to conclude new collective agreements. Finally, the reintroduction of the role, competences of the Mediation and Arbitration Agency, the OMD, will ensure the possibility of a peaceful settlement of collective labour disputes and the achievement of a fair solution for workers and employers. With regard to the minimum wage, I would like to say that the re-establishment of the law of collective bargaining is itself a guarantee of no problems and a side-effects of increasing the minimum wage in terms of the prevention and absorption of any vibration in the labour market. A first necessary step is the abolition of the counterweighted and illegal memoranda, which, on the one hand, reduced the minimum wage to EUR 586 and to EUR 511 for young people under the age of twenty-five years and frozen the three-year practically indefinitely and, on the other, substantially transferred to the exclusive competence of the Minister of Labour the procedure for setting the minimum statutory salary at the end of a caricature of social dialogue. At the same time, it promotes the fulfilment of the declared objective of reintroducing the minimum wage to EUR 751 and restoring collective autonomy to the way in which pay is shaped. I would like here to give a parentheses, because in the last 24 hours there have been a number of things that have been heard both within the Chamber and outside the Chamber. They have heard from the New Democracy colleagues that the threshold is actually set by the market itself. I do not remember the name of the colleague who said it exactly yesterday. And I ask, is that what you did? Is that what you did when you violently reduced the minimum wage? Now you remember how the self-regulated market will shape the minimum wage? On the contrary, you imposed in the most barbaric way, as part of a plan to impoverish the Greek people, who, in your opinion, should have been the minimum wage. However, there have also been other statements. In a statement yesterday by Mr Brutsis, my predecessor in the place of the Minister of Labour, said that only the announcement by SYRIZA that the minimum wage should be restored to the pre-mortem levels led to the loss of forty thousand jobs. Obviously, it is a confession on the part of the fact that even in the recent period of implementation of this anti-social and iso-people policy you have taken with you from the labour market forty thousand jobs, because it is the result of the existing policy that you have implemented and which you are still defending today the fact that 40 000 jobs have been lost. But you are ignoring the international experience. Because if what you say were true, we would see that in other countries which have much lower wages than our own, at the same time have high levels of unemployment, and have not improved its competitiveness. And especially for our country, from 2010 to 2014, we had a 21% reduction in the nominal wage. But we had at the same time 100% increase in unemployment. Neither has competitiveness improved, nor has unemployment declined much more. You talked at some point about linking the nominal salary to productivity. Productivity, however, has declined over recent years by 1%, while wages are 21%. You owe 20%, bring it back. This is why the Greek people have given you the lesson. Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming back to what I wanted to say about freedom of movement. It is necessary to conduct a substantial dialogue with the trade unions to reform the trade union law in the direction of a progressive change in its further democratisation, the trade unions, with full respect for their autonomy. At the same time, the role of associations of persons as a tool to break down the protective function of collective agreements and the rapid reduction in remuneration. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Finally, the law on strike returns is abolished. We restore individual labour rights. The Memorandum of Understanding, with no personal dignity and no guaranteed, fundamental social rights, must be overturned. The world of wage earner needs to work in an environment of democracy, individual freedoms and legal certainty, so that not only the productivity and quality of the work provided can be upgraded, but also family life harmoniously combined. Terrorism of cheap, undeclared and sudden unintentional dismissal, particularly in times of economic crisis and high unemployment, does not serve either the worker's side or the proper and upgraded functioning of a modern business. The blockade to the Memorandum of Understanding of the absolute liberalisation of redundancies also concerns group and individual redundancies and restores the necessary protection of the worker so that redundancies are the last and not an easy solution, whether economic or for reasons relating to the person of the worker. At the same time, provision should be made for guaranteed access to the new law for the termination of the job of all those categories that are actually contributing to a job relationship. In addition to the reduction in the length of the trial period involving compensation in the event of dismissal, a drastic reduction in the allowed duration and of the forms of temporary employment, as well as the fight against the phenomenon of false employment, which hides the relationship of an employed person. In the public sector, the return to constitutional and Community law in general includes a package of measures to reintroduce illegally removed services in the form of availability and the reserve and to repeal the relevant legislation. Subsequently, the drastic restriction on the dismantling of elastic forms of work includes a package of measures aimed primarily at ensuring the five-day work and restoring the Sunday holiday, the drastic reduction in the role of borrowing workers and private labour offices through strengthening the role of public promoters in promoting employment, the drastic reduction of subcontractors and contractors in the public sector and the general public sector in cases of objectively proven lack of know-how and logistics, and, finally, the general limitation of all other flexible forms of employment, such as part-time employment, rotation and temporary contracts through the mandatory objective justification and the care required to address the social consequences of their potential use. We are defending legality in the labour market. All previous legislative initiatives will remain an empty letter, since the widespread phenomenon of infraction on the labour market is not radically combated, in particular the multiple versions of undeclared and uninsured labour. The direct priorities of our government are social negotiation with the relevant trade unions and employers' organisations and local authorities a comprehensive strategic plan to combat black labour and tax evasion. The national alliance against illegality in the labour market is founded on successful and effective practices implemented in many European countries and includes a set of incentives, anti-motors and institutional interventions of mutual benefit to all stakeholders. But, above all, the fight against undeclared work means upgrading and suspending the relevant control mechanisms of the Labour Inspectorate and the IKA, as well as modernising and further exploiting the technological means to combat the phenomenon. In this direction and in close cooperation with the relevant Ministry of Interior, care will be taken for reforms in the current framework of immigration policy, so that the legally established migrants return to legal residence and employment, who have lost their residence permits due to the crisis, in particular the stubborn and anti-virtual legal framework for the renewal of residence permits. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Good, we still have time. With regard to social policy providers, we will promote the re-establishment of the Labour Housing Agency and the Labour Housing Agency. Our immediate priority is to allow them to re-operate upgraded and to be valuable tools for exercising social policy. In order to implement these commitments, we want to rely not only on the current parliamentary majority, and we want wider political consensus, especially those forces that are characterised by their sensitivity to the problems of the world of work. At the same time, we are creating conditions of consensus within society itself. Ladies and gentlemen, several before the elections, and even more later, we are asked whether it is time to turn to realism, implying that we have to put water on our wine, that we have to land in reality. But we tell them that for us realism is not subjection to today's reality, but its deep understanding, its analysis, not to accept it as it is, but to change it through an enforceable plan. This is our realism, the realism of social justice and the satisfaction of the major social needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u178	The series of colleagues is: Mrs Christophilopoulou, whom I would ask she to come to Stepma, then is my two colleague Mr Papachristopoulos - the "bis" goes to the fact that we are both doctors and MPs - Mr Varvitsiotis and Mr Samoilis. Mr Nikoloudis will be followed on behalf of the government. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. I will agree with the Minister who has just come out of the Step Minister that realism needs a plan, but unfortunately that is what we lack, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin my speech I would like to say something we have said from the beginning - other colleagues have said so from PASOK. We will not have an opposition to 'no' all. We may vote for individual bills such as that of citizenship or others. And certainly, as we have already said, we are willing to put back on the big deal of negotiation. But how will one vote on Programmatic Declarations, when the element of ambiguity, the lack of a plan on three basic parameters, which I would like to analyse in the few minutes at my disposal, makes these Programmatic Declarations extremely unclear, general and vague? Admission one. There is no specific negotiation plan. The negotiation - the real one that starts now and for which we wish, I say again, the best in the government and we will be close to it - needs a plan. We did not hear it either from the Prime Minister or from the Minister of Finance or from anyone else. We heard about bridges. Call it whatever you want. Make the turn to realism with a plan, just as Mr Skourletis said - 'with a plan' - but tell us what this plan is, if you want and the Prime Minister from here, this Step forward, the broader consensus in your plan for the negotiations. Because the only thing we have heard from both the ministers and the Prime Minister is that they should oppose the opposition. And that's a common trick of post-government Greece. We've seen it. We've lived this many times before. Is it time to change the style, to change the way in Parliament as well? One example - and the best of all - is that you are counting on us - to the outgoing government - that we did not ask for an extension of six months for the programme which formally expired on 31 December of the past year and we asked for a two-month extension, which if we had taken it, you were going to report to us in the worst way. What should we have done? Have we committed a priori to the next government for six months? Is that what you wanted? Why didn't you ask? And if, in any case, you want to, why don't you ask for an extension now? Very good, you're not asking. We will be with you on any negotiating plan that does not involve unilateral actions and actions that jeopardise the national situation within the Eurozone. Second point: Development plan. Production conversion. You say so. Where is he? It's not just, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prime Minister within about a hundred minutes of his speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u180	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u181	Don't worry, Mr. Comrade. We're doing a dialogue here. We can't agree on everything. A hundred minutes spoke by Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister. In these 100 minutes he didn't find five to tell us what the plan of comparative advantages he sees is? What is his vision and your vision of the country's productive reconstruction? Is this 70% - 30% of the programme Mr. Varoufakis said? Is this the statement of everything Mr. Lafazanis told us just before? Is the fact that the privatisations that have been made are going to continue with them, Mr. Varoufakis said again? I can go on like this for a long time, you know. So there is no production reconstruction plan. Seats don't exist. Culture? Shipping? Tourism? And a lot more. Entrepreneurship? And that's a very bad word. Lacking third and most important: What is the reform plan? Or do we suck the candy'reforms' because we hear that outside is easier when we tell them that we are going to have reforms? Look, for the fight against tax evasion, apply the laws of our own that you did not vote on. We'll be with you. And if you bring to light and transparency and more we'll still be with you. That is still a general point. Otherwise, what exactly is the government's reform plan? Let me take an area that is friendly to me, but I also think it is important for the development of the country and for future generations, for education. What exactly did the Minister of Education tell us? Did he speak as Minister of Education yesterday? He told us he would bring back eternal students and our problem is management councils? So, what's our vision of universities? The one that used to be? So students and actors who really did what they wanted, and instead of immunity, we had violence at universities, we had stateism and partyism within universities? Was there any selflessness real and essential in universities? In any case, for primary and secondary education what is your vision? To stop the evaluation, as you have announced, of the teachers and even a great mistake of the Minister of Education to think that the rates also apply to teachers and teachers? So will education go forward or in a general debate? Let me remind you, SYRIZA gentlemen, that neither in the 2009 dialogue initiated by the New Democracy on Babinoti, to which we participated, you had participated in the dialogue that we had conducted in 2011 you wanted to take part. So make a dialogue. We'll be there, but who? Unfortunately, the Prime Minister, not even the Minister of Education, found three words more specific to tell us in what direction is the change in school from kindergarten to high school. Is the theme bank annoying? Of course, it's annoying with OLEME. Don't talk about the client state, because a lot of customers I saw serving with the lips of Ministers here. And the "CALL" reform him, but in what direction? Maintaining what self-government acquis, Minister? We are also waiting for a decentralisation plan, but in particular, a decentralisation plan. Because without a specific plan, simply abolishing and announcing... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would also like your tolerance for less than two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u182	For a minute extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u183	One would say, then, that here we had various announcements, other than conflicting ones - certainly in contrast to what we heard outside of Ethiopia - and it is clear that we cannot vote on the Programmatic Declarations. However, ladies and gentlemen, as we have done five years now, we will support the national effort if there is this draft government, since a national negotiating team is set up in the hope that if the efforts that have been made so far - not without weaknesses, not without mistakes - the considerable efforts that have so far been made to keep the country up in the Eurozone and we must be able to continue for the sake of future generations and, in particular, the sacrifices of the Greek people must bear fruit, then they must not be lost on the altar of demagogues and populist government announcements, but they must be subject to a negotiation plan that is viable, realistic and rational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u184	Our former colleagues must, because of their experience, be more intimate to the young people to whom we have to show a little leniency. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELETERERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and two teachers attending the School of Education from Tolos Argolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides]] Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u185	Colleagues, I believe that it is no exaggeration to say that - at least so I see it - we have historical moments that will mark the future of an entire country. I believe that this will not be a short process, it is a process that will take a long time, but at a specific and limited time. I would like to remind you here that - forgive me for parallelism - the Acropolis succeeded and built it by Ikino and Kallikratis. They tried dozens, hundreds of others to do the same terrible world monument. No one did it. Very easily, though, if we get a couple of three here and we get some barbecues, we can destroy her. That's easy. The hard part is the connection. I say this because the exaggeration in this Chamber from all sides will have to disappear, especially at these particular moments. Democracy, of course, is acceptable to everyone, because we have different opinions and we do well to have them. They may respect each other's opinion, but they may not share it. That's why we can coexist. I say these, friends and friends, because I think that a preface of a new Member is necessary at least for self-restraint and mine and for all the new ones that have come to this Chamber. I want, because my area of responsibility is the area of health, but soon, I want to talk about two things and get to my main point, which is not health. I want to make three suggestions, because public hospitals are my second home. I want to believe I know something from this place. I would like to suggest to the Minister for Health - who now if he were here, perhaps say more - three things, although tens of what one could say about the area of public health, after reminding us that about fifty-six hospitals are now ready to collapse. Health centers don't work. Public health is in a state of collapse right now and, indeed, the work of the new Minister, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, who will find a situation which is incredibly afflicted and I do not want to be in his place - in the good sense of speaking. I would like - I repeat - to say three things and to leave the health sector. First of all, he was right to do the subject at the intensive care units. Yesterday, sixty beds, equipped and empty, had to be filled. I tell you that from this criminal omission they lose their lives two and a half thousand Greeks every year. It must quickly do independently of the emergency departments of the public hospitals, in which any one of you has happened to go, is hell. They remind Ukraine or Syria of the jihadists. With independent sections too much will be avoided. The third relates to the famous RSU, which may have become well-off from Alekos Papadopoulos. First of all, I would like to say that my Minister, with whom I continue to have a very good relationship, and let us belong to different parties and believe that there are mutual relations, was the President-in-Office today, Mr Kaklamanis. The U.S.D.'s absorbing staff that the public hospital needs. They spend money we could have saved. The worst part is that some people, who have no direct knowledge of what is going on in the hospital, make decisions about the hospital. In other words, the structure of public health must be seen from the outset. But I will finish, because I do not want to say any more about health, and I want to get to my main point as long as I can. I don't want to break time. I want to remember and remember all together that no one has ever been punished for the issue of the Stock Exchange. No one was punished for the party that took place in the Olympic Games. No one has ever been punished for the equipment, the only victim of the well-known Minister, who I believe was politically inactive when he was punished. I would also like to remind you that Article 86, ladies and gentlemen, is still present. I would like to remind you that the Mauritius, the Council of State and the Court of Auditors are still nominated by the Ministerial Council. Who fears the independence of justice? An inadmissible judge - much of you will know him - Sotiris Bayas has made terrible proposals for the true independence of justice. I am saying all this because today, in reality, I have listened with great care and respect to many colleagues from the Opposition and former government, to invoke the current government, which has never been in power, which is - not fifteen days government, with passion - with their right - and to forget what reality this government has found, but is experiencing the Greek citizen today. I would like to remind you by number and without any exaggeration of what we all know, that eight out of ten Greeks are at the moment in a bank or tax office. I want to remind you that six million three thousand people are on the line of poverty, that three million are uninsured. It's not a million and a half unemployed, it's two and a half million. And thousands of children, mostly youths, have left abroad. At the same time, no list, no offshore, no transfer that left abroad was checked. This is a reality for which I may be exaggerated, but it cannot be excessively transparent - your own man - who gave you eighty-documented corruption cases and you did nothing for three years, screaming for the influxes - outflows and you did nothing, shouting at where the 23 billion went and who the bankers gave them and fled directly abroad! Let me remind you that the Public Administration Inspector - your own man again - published fourteen amendments at night. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I can have a minute, or I can stop now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u186	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u187	So the Public Administration Inspector has published fourteen illegal amendments, as they have done five judicial associations. I do not imagine that all of these were fans of SYRIZA and Kammen of the Independent Greeks. They told you you wouldn't let them do their job. You delivered a country really exterminated. The expression 'humanist crisis' for me is noble friends and friends. That is the reality and we cannot question it. To conclude, I would like to welcome the composition of the Ministerial Council. I am delighted to see a slandered politician, Mrs Konstantopoulou, taking the place of the President of Parliament. I saw Mr. Nicoludi become Minister, who I know from the outside, and untouchedly what he has done quietly. I saw Yannis Panousi, the criminologist, and not a retired person take the Ministry of Public Order. I could say a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u188	Stop the name, because the rest will complain, while in the absence of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u189	In that you're right, it doesn't mean anything to the rest of us, it just happens to know the above. I really support this government, I believe in what it's going to do, and I like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, too. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor, then Mr Samoilis follows the Minister of State, Mr Nikoloudis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must say the self-evident thing, but it has to be said many times: today the concern of all of us is the negotiation that the government is making. Because if the negotiation fails, then we will go to very difficult developments, that is to say, if there is no programme from 28 February, which will guarantee our funding, since the country's borrowing rates are forbidden. We want this negotiation to succeed and I wish that something better than that, which we had achieved. But this cannot be done without SYRIZA admits and without admitting the two parties that co-govern, the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA, that a very large part of all their election announcements were false. It was falsifying the ambitions they have made in the world for the definitive abolition of the Memorandum, for the abolition of the Memorandum of Legislative Laws, for the arrangements that have been taken over the last period. It is also a lie that the previous government has not negotiated, which we are constantly listening to today on the occasion of a specific incident, I would like to disprove. I am going to talk about the PPA case, because I think many people have been confused, many have been heard lately, and I would like to make it clear what the real situation is. At the same time, I would like to propose to the Government that the PPA's asset utilization programme be continued, as planned and not entered into the list of privatization programmes to be abolished. To be clearer, the PPA is a company that manages the port of Piraeus. He doesn't own the port of Piraeus. In 2008 the then government of Karamanlis made an agreement with 'COSCO' and came 'COSCO' and took over the management of a pier of the harbor and the construction of a half yet. These two piers - the one and a half pier - which the 'COSCO' had at its disposal, paying rent to the PPA, reached their limits, launched the port's capacity and operation and in 2013 it was decided on a proposal from 'COSCO' to extend and grant them another sea, to build the rest of this pier, to equip it. It was a EUR 230 million investment. This investment didn't come easy and it didn't come easy because then the troika, when we started negotiations with 'COSCO', told us'stop! We do not want this investment to be done." And I have here in front of me the email from Mr Morse, the representative of the European Commission, which we had received as a government - and I will present it in the Minutes - which said'stop this investment, not only because it was contrary to the terms of European law' - because it was an outsourcing - 'but because if you grant this right to 'COSCO', then privatisation - which is one of the main commitments that the country has undertaken towards the programme - 'that would not have been after the PPA, because the best part of the port that could be exploited would have been allocated to 'COSCO'. Since 18 September 2013, when this email was sent to us by Mr Morse, he has started an enduring effort in two directions, first of all not to put a veto on this e-mail side, and secondly to overcome all the obstacles within the European Commission, which were related to the extension of this contract to 'COSCO' for its direct assignment and, of course, to proceed with the realisation of a huge, largest investment that took place in the country throughout the period of crisis. It's an investment of 230 million that creates over a thousand jobs, which doesn't create a new China Town, as Mr. Lafazanis was saying. I am delighted that these China Towns and those against the concession agreement, of course, which Mr Lafazanis said today, are annulled by Mr Varoufakis. In a recent interview he even described this investment as one of the leading successful investments in the country. I thank him for his good words, but I think he should tell SYRIZA a lot earlier. For this reason, I also have Mr Lafazani's press release, which said that we want to make the port of Piraeus a China Town. What do I want to tell you about this? I would like to tell you that by increasing the capacity of the port of Piraeus, having involved an international partner, the only way to increase the port was to move forward with the demobilisation plan. It is one of the few deprivation projects in the country that combines - and it will be examined at the same time - not only the amount of money that they give us to get the majority of the shares in the PPA, but also their commitment to the investment programme that they will carry out within the first five years, an investment programme that we hope will exceed EUR 400 million. Many of them, over 150 million, will fall in the ship repair sector in order to upgrade the services, to have a new floating tank, new logistic equipment, so that Perama really, Drapetsona is reborn, since the Scaramaga Shipyards are closed and the Elefsina Shipyards are planting. And it would be a sin today that this privatization programme will be stopped ahead of 6 March, which is the day for the submission of binding tenders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u192	You have a minute more than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. It'll be a sin to stop. You will go back to a very large investment where the place really hurts: to exploit our shipbuilding advantage, to exploit our geostrategic position and to exploit the harbor as a attraction for investment, because I have not heard anything about investment and how to bring it and I have not heard anything about development. It will be a great mistake if, due to the previous Lafazanne statements, it disagrees with the concession of uses, which disagrees with the sale of the shares, which disagrees with the presence of the Chinese in the port of Piraeus, let a chance be lost. Today the PPA has the greatest interest in the largest homes abroad. It is not just 'COSCO'. It is the "MAERSK" and many companies, in which we will be able to provide strategic cooperation, the state will create revenues and the most populous region, the "protagonist" of unemployment in Greece, Perama and Drapetsona, finally see new investments in their neighborhood. Mr President, in the context of the negotiations that have taken place, I hope that the information that the Syriza wants to see retreat from its previous position on the non-militarisation of the PPA will be confirmed in the context of the common sense. I put the two relevant texts in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I am, of course, voting against the government's programming statements. I do not give a vote of confidence because I have no confidence that with this plan you can bring even a new euro into the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u194	Mr Samoilis Stefanos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, these days there is an essential debate I would say on the government's programming statements, which are detailed and by Ministry a specific strategic programme is presented. I'd say we've entered a new era. It was not before the debate in this way. We knew that with the election of SYRIZA there would be a positive shock in society, but reality is much more encouraging than our predictions. A five-year-old regime fell. He fell down, exhausted all his weapons, and society took breath. And not only that, but he reminisced and reminded us of what dignity, vindication, solidarity and hope means. We may be 15 days from the day the country left the dark of the memorials, but in political and historical time we all feel - I believe even most of the Anti-Population - that we can now stand up. Wednesday we call on the Greek people to give their own signal, to hear their own voice on the streets, at the same time as the battle to negotiate at the Eurogroup Summit. We're talking about a new era. What we are experiencing after the overthrow of the previous government is called'real negotiation'. Those who in previous years signed several memoranda of cutbacks and austerity first see what it means to negotiate and defend the dignity of the Greek people. For the first time, they have seen the difficulties faced by a people and a government that refuses to condemn the vicious cycle of poverty and recession. For the first time, they see a government negotiating openly, forcefully and honestly throughout Europe. The fear surrounding the Memorandum forces is that they should not fall on the rocks themselves rather than on the Greek people. The salvation of society is now inconsistent with their own salvation, so Mr Venizelos yesterday - and other Members, of course, of PASOK and of the New Democracy - urged the government to sign the extension of the memorandum, because only in this way will he be able to justify his own individual political redemption. Because each "Master Venizelos" ends when the memorandum is finished. This finding should not be considered as an exaggeration. Remember the statements made by the former Head of the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Stros Khan, who told us that Mr. Papandreou had agreed to sign the memorandum at the same time as saying "there are items". Remember Mr Stournara's statements that the memorandum is a blessing or the statements made by Mr Adoni Georgiades that his troika is stealing glory. Remember them, ladies and gentlemen. It is at least contradictory today to tell us that the negotiations of the new government are hoped to succeed, mainly aimed at abolishing the austerity memoranda. Even through these suffocating financial schedules, the government's strategy is gaining space throughout Europe. The ending of austerity, the redistribution of wealth, the return to democracy and solidarity are demands that go beyond the Greek people and spread to both the peoples of the South and the North, because even the German workers suffer from austerity, the giantization of precarious forms of work, the freezing of wages and pensions and the concentration of wealth in the hands of the German elite. That is why we believe that the demands of the Greek Government alone are not selfish, but are open to adoption by every European citizen. Europe is forced to change its way if it wants to continue to be united. SYRIZA will work unreservedly in this direction of unity, through the real solidarity of the peoples of Europe. The Prime Minister's Programming Statements made clear a blurred point left by the previous government. It is impossible to develop with society broken up by the humanitarian crisis, unemployment and anti-democratic aberrations. For us development means bottom in the barrel. It means that the reconstruction of the country begins first of all from the direct support of our people so that they can restart on their feet. It means direct provision of elementary goods, such as housing, food and electricity, to thousands of households living below the poverty line. It means tax justice and burden transfer to high incomes, along with decisive blows in the strife and corruption of the economic oligarchy and the fight against smuggling, reconstituting social welfare and public health as a mechanism for alleviating the humanitarian crisis. It means universal public education, with the immediate aim of making the most of all the children of this place available to the public education system. It means productive reconstruction programme that at its core will have stable work, with decent conditions of science, research and innovation. Competitiveness for us does not mean lasting devaluation of wages. Exploiting public property for us means strategic planning to exploit it rather than selling everything instead of a lentil. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u197	Mr. President, will there be a break?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u198	No, Mr Philly, so as to be able to speak as many Members as possible. Mr. Nikoloudis has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, allow me first of all to congratulate you and wish you good strength to the high tasks you have undertaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u201	The second thing I want to say is that I feel very honoured to have this privilege of addressing the National Representation and through the National Representation to every Greek citizen. The protection of the property of the Greek State, both from internal insults - that is, crimes of officials of the State itself - and from external insults is a maximum project for the government and will be attempted by all available criminal and administrative means and measures. In the current economic crisis for the country, the issue of absolute priority is an effective response to tax evasion and corruption in the public sector. The various forms of tax evasion, i.e. tax evasion, tax evasion, tax evasion, as a whole, do not only offend the property of the Greek state, but also create a series of fiscal and socio-economic malfunctions, and in particular, a failure to finance state expenditure on the service of public needs, a cancellation of the activity of the tax as an economic policy tool to achieve non-cash objectives, a distortion of the conditions of social cohesion and solidarity. I am simply limiting myself to saying that in the end it harms democracy itself. Although in recent years, also under pressure from and in line with the commitments made by international and European contractual texts, our country has significantly increased the legal arsenal. Corruption, in particular the so-called high-level or 'peak corruption', is one of the most important causes of the institutional and economic crisis and is exacerbating the consequences of this crisis. The main reason for the failure of the State mechanism to deal effectively with these phenomena lies in the division of responsibilities and the division of responsibilities between the control services concerned, the unambiguous delimitation of which weakens the effectiveness of the system, promotes the diffusion of responsibility and makes it difficult for the operational monitoring of the cases in question to be monitored. Consequently, the choice of the Government to set up a new Ministry to which all the control mechanisms are subject is by definition wise, regardless of the person to whom the responsibility of that Ministry was to be entrusted. So you have, ladies and gentlemen, before you, the one to whom the Prime Minister has made the honour and has given the serious duty to lead this ministry, a man who, a few days ago, surprisedly may have expelled the party of the supreme judiciary, because - for those who probably do not know it - by a few days ago I was an Deputy Prosecutor in the Areo ice, and I was the President of the Independent Authority for the Combating of Black Money and I did so, I assure you, without second thought. It's very simple. I had no ambition at the end of my career to wear a minister suit. I've got enough of my napkin. I was just doing it because I thought that when the Prime Minister was talking about combating tax evasion and, above all, combating corruption, he meant it. And I meant it a long time ago. I have, of course, also a newly established ministry, which I must say for now that it has no facilities, no secretariat, no files received from anyone, no paper, no permanent sitting somewhere. But this is all perfectly normal. I just want to give the assurance to the National Representation that despite this, this ministry is already starting to work and produce work. No doubt left to anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u202	Maybe because you received it from a zero base. It's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, I would probably like to thank you for the comment. That is exactly what I wanted to go through, namely what the co-responsibility of this case is. It's what the President said. Moreover, it is my previous term of office in this independent authority - which in the last four years at least as the main object was to deal with tax evasion and corruption - I see it as a continuation from a new position, from a new post, the Minister's post. Furthermore, I consider it positive that I do not have to deal with any predecessor but with my own work, my previous work, with myself. I will intensify my efforts to do things better than before. Today I am well aware that my role and purpose here are to inform you, continuing on the one hand what the Prime Minister and all my previous colleagues have done, about what I am going to do - that is what the Programmatic Declarations have - on the specific issues of tax evasion and corruption and what measures I have in mind. However, let me try to describe you with all honesty and with the greatest documentation what the real situation is in our country and what its relationship with these two phenomena, namely tax evasion and corruption, because I think that little can help and little can be assessed if you do not know what the needs that create these objectives are. I'm going straight to issues. I shall refer to the issue of tax evasion. I don't want to smash glauka to Athens, try to tell you what tax evasion is. I take the quickest and most coherent term. It is conditio sine qua non, the term without which any state cannot survive. In other words, a State which does not have the capacity to collect the statutory taxes it provides and imposes on it is obliged to resort to borrowing and, if it cannot resort to lending, it is certain that it will find itself in a very difficult situation with a threat to its own existence. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] So we have a number of points of view. I have heard various campaigns and various declarations, too much 'will', 'will', 'will','stop tax evasion'. Honestly, without any overcompensation, what I have to say to you as a repressed thought, a conclusion that comes out of my experience - and I will tell you below what this experience is - is that it has unfortunately not been in our country since 1974 and so far - for for forty years - not an effective tax-control and tax-supply mechanism, there has been no such mechanism that operates even elementally. And within me I have always wondered how we were able as a state to get here in this critical situation, and that had not happened many years ago. I don't think it's right to look back on your predecessors in the past and give responsibility to those who worked the same cause before you. However, without wishing to touch on anyone personally, I believe that those who have needed finance ministers since 1973, since the post-Multipulation and until now have had significant responsibilities not necessarily criminalised - anything but criminal responsibilities - I mean that we have never been able to have an effective mechanism. I am entering a description of the situation as it exists today. Do you know today what mechanism is there to control taxes and seek their recovery? Since 2012, it has become a start. Until then there was literally nothing. Only the taxpayer went to the taxpayer and never the taxpayer. This is not possible to produce any results. It's like invoking a man's patriotism, and in such matters, it's not enough to invoke patriotism. patriotism too many stops where their pocket begins to hurt. By 2013, therefore, there was neither a tax audit nor a tax-supply mechanism. At the end of 2012 to 2013, this small mechanism - which I had the honour of having in my control, of presiding and presiding - by insinuating, if you will, and of the Reichenbach technicians, has undertaken to some extent to replace the lack of tax and tax. With simple words, what we have done is to ask all banks to send us lists - I am trying to avoid the abstract word 'list' - depositors who had more than 200,000 euros in each bank. We gathered the figures of all those who had sent funds abroad. We have also gathered information that no one can assume, as well as information from insurance companies, from insurance companies. Because it is a challenge and absurd one who declares an income of EUR 25 000 per year to pay a premium of EUR 17 000. I give you some criteria that set our thoughts and thoughts. Finally, we have recently included this famous list of Lagard. And after we put all these data into a database, then we made an evaluation based on the VAT system and we found about an overall picture of what each one owns and has. The second step we have taken has been to look at tax declarations since 2000 and we have come up with about three and a half thousand cases with a full picture of disparity - not to say anything else - between income, assets and assets that someone has said. These three and a half thousand cases, which were, at first sight, speaking and screaming - not just talking about tax evasion, we literally didn't have and we don't have what to do with them today. It is worth telling you that the total amount of material that has been avoided is EUR 7 billion, measured and calculated up to the last euro, which is expected to give the public a minimum of EUR 2.5 billion. And yet, this treasure, the coarse money that the public has not only the right, but the duty to collect it, does not have the opportunity to do so. Because quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, neither the taxes nor the ILO have auditors capable of responding to this. In order not to widen and waste time, I am going directly to the measures that we intend to take. We will ask all the auditors of the ILO to leave to the band anything else they do, which was most often useless or useless, and to deal exclusively with the subject of these cases. To a second extent, but very soon, we will ensure - and in this respect we are in full consultation with the Ministry of Finance - that legislation gives the ILO the power to certify the tax. Why are you probably surprised: the ILO does not have the power to certify the tax. Another makes control, that is, the ILO, and then it will send out a report on taxes, which are almost completely inadequate and incapable of doing another check, and we will finally impose the tax. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] To avoid losing the opportunity and the opportunity to refer to the most critical issue of corruption, which is going to absorb most of my activity, I simply say to you: The extent of corruption that I have seen before me in doing my job in this Commission, in this principle that I mentioned before you, is not derived from theories, days, two days, days, rumours, but is the determination of the man who put his finger on the type of suns. And what's the conclusion? All these financial scandals relating to the banks, which concern grants, which relate to the way in which tobacco products and fuels are handled - I can assure you, I can assure you - a dragon of people or a family dragon, which is exactly what we in general call state capitalism. It is a dragon of people who are aware that the state is built solely to serve their interests. And unfortunately, at times, the state and its institutions have shown themselves to share this view. I conclude by saying that what has been done so far will try to control it and give criminal responsibility. However, it is certain that from now on contracts with polluting papers, war materials contracts, which had about institutionalised and legislated excessive exchanges, so-called'misies', subsidies with either the Greek public or the European Union's money, will not be given again. The road will be closed. The control of tobacco trafficking, which is carried out in unacceptable ways, results in a number of sums calculated at 1 billion. Let's make it up to them. From now on, this will not be allowed to happen because their mechanisms will be ruined and they will be damaged immediately. To that end, this government and this Minister who speaks today will not simply do what we can. We will do what we need to do, we will do everything we need, we will do what is required of the particular circumstances and needs in the critical circumstances in which our country is in order for this state to become normal, to become a state governed by legality. I'm not too optimistic. But my faith is that you get what you fight. Me and the entire government are determined to fight. For the first time in this House, Madam President, I have made a point. I didn't mean to. I meant to confine myself to time and less. Let me be forgiven that I violated him. Thank you very much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would like to say to you that Parliament has a great deal of interest in the fight against corruption and interlocutory issues, and it will also take initiatives, but also to the extent of the co-competence, where it arises, to know that Members are always willing and active in these matters. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, which is Mr Christos Dimas from New Democracy, I would like to inform you that the Government has expressed the initiative - and as President-in-Office I would like to congratulate her on this initiative - after the next two ministers who are going to speak - and I say this to ensure that there is also the necessary time to adjust the speeches - the speeches of the Ministers, the Vice-Presidents and the State Secretarys are limited to a period of time so that Members can be given even more time. I would like to congratulate the government, because this is the first time that the government has confined itself to hearing Parliament even more. I will therefore inform you that, after the two next ministers to speak and who are Mr Tsakalotos and Mrs Valavani - for the order you will be informed - the ministers will have twelve minutes of speaking from eighteen provided for in the Rules of Procedure, the Deputy Ministers will have 10 minutes of the fourteen anticipated by our decision and the Deputy Ministers will have seven minutes of the nine provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I think it is worth congratulating the government on this initiative, which will enable even more Members to speak. [[Applause]] I have to tell you, of course, that, according to the point at which we have arrived and the Members who have spoken, there has been more debate in time and more time than ever, already in the last twenty-two years at least we have recorded the printing. The Vice-President of Parliament, Miss Despina Charalapidou, will be chaired. Mr. Dimas, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. First I would like to wish the new government a success. Despite the fact that there are possible political differences, above all we are all Greeks and we want the good of our country and therefore the government's success. However, if one were absent from Greece for the last three months and suddenly came back to listen to the New Government's Programmatic Declarations and listened to the Prime Minister protesting because the previous government asked for a two-month extension of the memorandum and not a six-month period, it would surely give him an impression. As it seems it would cause him to hear the Finance Minister stress that he agrees with 70% of the memorandum, to advertise the OECD toolbox himself, and to claim that the government does not want debt write-off. It would also give rise to the fact that ministers of the current government would be in favour of liberal political thought and would continue privatization, as if they were ready long ago. He wouldn't believe in his ears. Suddenly the antimony became memorial. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have convinced the most skeptical one that SYRIZA said in the famous program of Thessaloniki and more he does post-elections. But I sincerely have no intention of blaming you. Political adjustments to reality are necessary. However, what is equally important from now on is that the country's credibility remains strong and that there is no difference between internal consumption and external need statements. The Prime Minister on Sunday stressed the need to achieve balanced budgets, because this is the prerequisite for our economic self-reliance and our national sovereignty. He said it was the prerequisite for a strong negotiating position and ultimately for a positive outcome to the negotiations. The reason is simple. The less your money is missing, the more independent you are, the stronger you are in pressure and the ability to resist. I endorse this statement by the Prime Minister. But I would remind you that for the first time in Greece, we have had balanced budgets and primary surpluses over the last two years on the Governments of New Democracy. In June 2012, New Democracy received a 10% deficit and in one year it managed to zero it. Today, therefore, if the SYRIZA Government - ANEL can discuss with European partners, it is due to the fact that the previous government has made a record budget adjustment. SYRIZA and ANEL not only did not then contribute to this patriotic responsibility, as Mr Tsipras rightly calls it, but instead fought it. Of course, I would stress that there is a question as to whether the government can achieve a balanced budget, having announced a number of philosophical measures. It would be interesting to tell us where the government will find all the money needed not only for the announcements, but also to keep the budget balanced. You give the impression that you will inevitably exaggerate the middle class even more to cover the holes in the budget, which you inevitably create. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece needs to implement a national plan for the definitive exit of the crisis. Reforms initiated by the previous government must not be restrained. In no case do I say that the previous government did everything right. But what we were saying before the elections, and we continue to say today, is that the programme is being completed, that we are now coming out of this, and now urgently need to cooperate immediately with our partners on a preventive credit line for a short period of time. So at this critical time when the country is being called upon to negotiate with its partners, it is certainly the government's wish to reach the best possible agreement for our country. Two realistic and objective objectives for the new agreement should be to relax the objective of achieving major primary surpluses in order to address urgent social problems and stimulate growth, as well as a significant increase in public investment, which will be a key pillar in achieving greater growth in the Greek economy. Not to reach an agreement will have adverse consequences not for one or two years, but for many years. It will significantly increase the possibility of leaving the euro voluntarily. The famous Grexit bring it back to the fore. In this case - which we are all absent, but now we must consider - our new national currency will be underestimated rapidly and inflation will be depreciated, public debt will be redefined in accordance with the new currency and will therefore be multiplied, imports will be much more accurate, for example in food, medicines, fuel, and there will be too many deficiencies. The banking system will be at the edge of the collapse, and as a result the private sector will be led to a stagnation. The living standards of the Greeks will be dramatically reduced for many years. It will not be the drachma as we remember it. It will be a nightmare for the country and especially for the poorest. Let me remind you that there is no planned withdrawal procedure from the euro or from the European Union, nor is there a historical precedent. Will we be the first to jeopardise European agricultural subsidies? Will we be the first to risk the money from the ESDP and other Community funds? With the government's political stance, we are flirting with the risk of becoming an example of how to avoid the whole Eurozone. Concern grows when I hear members of the Co-population say - as before - that we need to leave NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, let the government be sure that we will exercise a responsible opposition on our part. Where proper decisions are taken, we will support them, but where we see dangers, we will emphasise them. We will not be pleased, but we are not going to move into the old-fashioned attitudes of meaningless denial that have proved to be devastating for the place. I am convinced that in the difficult times that the country is going through, each of us will be dealt with by putting the national interest beyond and above the party. Unfortunately, you have caused early elections without having a plan for the economy, so now you are desperately asking for more time. And it is paradoxical also that you make announcements based on four years, while you yourself interrupted the 2012 people's mandate for a four-year term of the previous government. The government's Programmatic Declarations show that there is no concrete plan with clear orientation. While you are right to say that you intend to conclude an agreement, at the same time your words and actions prove that you have not excluded the conflict. That is why I will not give a vote of confidence to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Friends has the floor for six minutes to answer for a second. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u207	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister, Mr Nicoludis. He is a man of the state - in the good sense - who assured us that the mechanisms of corruption will be ruined immediately. He's a man who knows, wants and can fight against corruption. We'll be on his side. Let us now go to the issues that are concerned - or do not work as much as we should - at today's meeting. Yesterday there was a public statement by President Obama. Following his meeting with Mrs Merkel, she invited her to find a project on her own initiative so that there could be growth in Greece within the Eurozone. She had her own backing in a negative way, probably as far as we understood. What does that confirm? It confirms that within just a few days this government, which some of you accuse of preparing Grexit or falling into Grexit's lacquer, has managed to turn a'regulatory', 'Balcan' problem, the 'Greek' - and here I put many introductorys - into a European and global problem. For President Obama said that from Greece's relations with the euro area, namely whether there will be a development programme for the country's substantial integration into the euro area, the European and global economy is affected. Can the Opposition hear that? If he hears them, why do the various colleagues come here and repeat their fears about Grexit, about Cyprus and go by saying? Does the Opposition hear this great achievement on the eve of the Eurogroup negotiations? Does he not at least, if not congratulating, give a period of two days of grace, a confidence in the government to give this battle? Why, then, is this petty and unequalness supposed to support good things, but beats bad ones? Nothing! Zero! Secondly, I hear the easy criticism. "But, Obama? American imperialism?’ I would like to say to these colleagues who, with such ease, go before the Conference of the Communist International in 1935, that the Left has always paid great attention to the cracks of the opponent. He made alliances and fronts. And now the Left, which is the government in Greece, is making use of this know-how, the ideological predisposition and the stable left, to build channels within the opponent, to exploit contradictions that exist on the opposing media, to build fronts for people's interests here and throughout Europe. It is clear that the day after the Eurogroup will become, there will be a slaughterhouse at the expense of the Greek representation. That's clear. Where it's going to end up is also a matter of correlation from outside and inside. That is why it would be of great value if Mr Samaras, who participated in the most important today, in terms of institutional representation, a party of Europe, the European People's Party, at this party's summit, which will take place before the European summit, clearly raises the question of supporting the Greek debt initiative to abolish austerity. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It will be there if we say that we do not make micro-group opposition, if we mean that we are ready to stand up to national objectives, to national efforts. Everything else... okay. There was a lot of discussion on the question of the reference of Mr Varoufakis' Minister for Finance for 7/10. Mr. Varoufakis didn't say it secretly. He spoke here, from the Step of the House. I must say that he has had the political power and insight to speak not only with one phrase, but with a quite rich political speech. He said something that is forgotten by easy critics, that the memorandum is a statute. And this regime we want to tear it out with methodical moves. The Memorandum - he said - is a statute. That's what you're going to tell me, how can it suit the selective concept of 7/10? It is clear that it is a figure of speech and we need to see the quality figures of 30% and 70%, that is, the substance. Already the main ministers who spoke from here, for example the Minister for Labour, have given us a sample of what it means to'screw the core of the memorandum', which is the internal devaluation, which is the dissolution of labour relations and the dismantling of incomes. This is to avoid an easy criticism at a difficult time when negotiations are taking place. This negotiation will take place in terms of a mass movement, with the great rallying on Wednesday, tomorrow, in Athens and in other European cities. I repeat that we have managed, in a few days, not just to be a peculiar Greek, but the issue of Greece is a central problem in the global economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Friend, for having been consistent in his time. Mrs Vassilis Katrivanou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor. To prepare Mr. Nikolaos Michos from the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Here, Mrs. Catrivanu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, first of all, I would like to say that this joy we see in the world is a very important thing because it takes away energy and creativity. And that's a big chapter. I am a Member of Parliament from the past period and will say that I have seen a very different atmosphere in this Chamber as well. There's an opening. There's no tension and the faucet - to say it like that - that was falling before. There's another air, and that's what I want to share with you. It's important that we have a woman president. These are changes, incisions. I'm on my way. I am delighted at the moment, with great excitement and a feeling of responsibility, I say that it is time to act. It is time to act for everything we have fought and for what we have worked collectively, for a society at last democratic that supports people and the rights that have been trampled. For us ingredients of our understanding are values such as dignity, justice, humanity and solidarity. I say things in outlines, however, which are, in essence, whole chapters and lives of people. We talked about citizenship of the children of the second generation of immigrants. Also for extended cohabitation pact, first of all, which includes both gay couples and then political marriage. Face all discrimination on race, nationality, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, abolition of type III exterior prisons, abolition of juvenile prisons, care for mental patients and drug addicts, care for workers in public health and mental health structures, care for the rights of disabled people. Since yesterday's speech of the Minister of Justice, which included many of what I am referring to, we are breathing new air in Greece at the moment. I am going to dwell on three points which are not my own views. They're collective treatments. For the first time, a Ministry of Immigration is established as in all the countries of Europe. This ministry will be transferred to the Ministry of Public Order, the first reception, the Appeals Authority, which is currently in the Ministry of Public Order. Immigration is becoming a key issue for us in terms of a rule of law. It is a matter of overall management with a single strategy. We will implement a policy which will have a bearing on integration, protection, respect for rights and the strengthening of social cohesion, because the social integration of migrants and refugees, that is, their access to fundamental rights, such as work, health and education, is precisely what strengthens social security and social cohesion. On the other hand, exclusion widens the social margin and favours the inconsistency involving local and foreign people. Migration flows, however, are not a national issue. It is not only a matter of national solutions, but of European and international ones. We will therefore work on a European policy on immigration and asylum, with respect for people's rights and the responsibility of all the Member States of Europe for fair sharing of responsibility and solidarity. For immigrants who are long-established in the country, for children who are rooted here - whether born or in school - who have not met another country and who fulfil the conditions of accession, we will proceed to the acquisition of Greek citizenship, with respect for the decision of the Council of State. It is a mature measure that promotes an open society. Our general logic is that against an immigration policy that is central to repression and exclusion, we choose integration and we will start from the people who have been removed from legality because they have not been able to signify, people who have lived for years in Greece, those who have developed bio- and legal ties with Greece and have supported all these years agriculture, construction and who have supported and helped our people, our grandparents, our children. I'm on my way. Access to the territory of the European Union and protection cannot be discounted for people who are forced to leave their country because of wars, civil conflicts and persecution. We have international and Union obligations for refugees, to have them in open hospitality centres and not as many times they are stacked in detention centres. We believe that detention centres - and we hope the Ministry will go ahead with this - will be converted from prison to open hospitality structures. At the moment - Mr Panousis said so - it is taking the first step. Removal of detention over eighteen months and release of minors, unaccompanied, who in terrible unconstitutionalism and against all laws - European and Greek - are currently being held in detention centres together with adults for more than eighteen months. I move very briefly. Co-existence agreement: We as SYRIZA had tabled a proposal for a law on an extended co-existence agreement for both heterogeneous and homogeneous couples. Expanded because it includes insurance, tax, hereditary and labour rights which do not include the present. We believe that this claim or, as yet, a frozen draft of law, which at the same time freezes the expectations and lives of so many of our fellow people, it is time to become law. This will be the first step and we want political marriage to follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u210	Please do not make any comments underneath. Please, Mrs. Catrivanu, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u211	Of course, we also want to take concrete measures against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, due to race, nationality, religion, gender and health, measures initiated by the state mechanism - which has often been a body of discrimination - and which will go to schools, neighbourhoods, everywhere. We have been in consultation with all the people of these groups all these years we have been in this House. We will see to it that the victims of discrimination which are the objective of the neo-nazi violence on the Golden Dawn. No more Baltaku time! No more time when the government encouraged intolerance and racism! We're another government. The treatment of neonazism will take place at many levels: the democratisation of the police, the implementation of the law, the immediate treatment of prisoners in the state, anti-discrimination courses in schools, judges and police. Unreserved front against racism and the neo-Nanazism of the Golden Dawn. A new air is breathing about rights and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u212	Mrs. Catrivanu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u213	In this fight we call on all citizens, all people living in this country: women, men, straight, gay, lesbians, loyal and unfaithful of all nationality and ethnic origin and religion. We want together to broaden the areas of freedom and coexistence and solidarity, and we can only do that together, all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. Mr Michos Nikolaos from the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, Deputy Minister for Finance will be followed. Here, Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Madam President. I have heard the previous speaker, who said: 'Freedom in all'. That's great! Daddy and Dad, Mom and Mom adopt little kids, and we'll all be a happy family together! Now, what a end we're going to make, we don't know. These little children are going to grow up, no one has told us, because abroad by research that has been done, all these children are growing up with psychological problems. That doesn't sound here. Anyway, because in Greece we have a lot of democracy, for those who don't know it, me on the eve of the elections at 20: 00, the hour at which I was banned from going to vote, without the removal of my political rights. This is what patriots have done from here on the right - because they must be told truths - hoping that I will leave, I will run away. They had set a step on the fifteen cops to cuff me in my village and humiliate me. Another setup after paid rats - let's call it fat - in Chalkida. They didn't do anything. Sadly, they have humiliated themselves and fallen into the eyes of the world. Now, if they terrorized the Greek people and took the percentage they took from some elderly people, from some shredded bitches working for the party, it's another matter. I have heard these days here a lot of criticism of the new government. We still haven't seen them, we hear various opinions, we hear what they have to say, and we'll see what they have to do. Right positions in 2012, remember who they were? He said he'd tear the memorials, that there'd be a clearance for the submarines and for whatever other scam has been done. That's all you people on the right did. You have brought our Greece into this situation. You saved a lot of those who were going through a committee, like Mr Venizelos for the submarines, so don't criticize now. You will criticize yourself first, yourself and then to the rest and to us much less. Do not forget that a Member of your Parliament had said: 'Better that Greece sinks to save Europe'. So start first of your own and then criticize others. I heard about a primary surplus. Again this primary surplus without primary production. This thing is how it's done, how the previous government did it, we don't understand it. Should you also take lessons from the previous ones to move on? Unemployment is currently in Greece at 28% with 44% of Greeks living below the poverty line. We are the worst state in Europe. If you really love your country and the Greeks, I believe you will do something about this thing - there are too many ways - to start producing, to cover some jobs and to raise our economy. 41% of our national surface is geographically characterized as rural land, with the traditionally inseparable ties that Greeks have always had with the earth. Greece has always accumulated comparative advantages vis-à-vis all other European countries in the development factors that are considered decisive for the rational economic development of our country, such as the temporal climate, the rich ground, etc. Greece has too many possibilities. At the end of 1948, Greece participated by 33% in the creation of our country's Gross Domestic Product. Since 1974, it has fallen to 17.8%. Today, we've reached 2.7%. You have to do something. We are purely agricultural and livestock farming, we cannot produce from elsewhere, but slowly the Greek people must also learn some truths. Who have signed these signatures to reduce agricultural and livestock production to 3%? For this has not been done by itself, it has become by some people who were in here who have made the nations, who have made the patriots. And I'm not just talking about the Right, I'm talking about the PASOK, I'm talking about all the governments that have been through in the past. There have been many signatures to degrade agricultural and livestock production in our country. You, then, - because I have heard that you want to do too much - it is an opportunity to show that you want to help farmers and farmers, because after that there is a continuity. It is a large chain that after agricultural and livestock production we enter secondary production, i.e. tanning, nourishment, small leather crafts for shoes and clothing. We in Greece cannot produce so many things and do advertising, but the Greeks should go to Turkey to get cheap skins. That is unacceptable. This must not be done in our homeland. In the 1980s, because I worked from 12 years old in these jobs -- a goat skin, for those who don't know, had 250 drachmas. The money was very worthy. From this skin they could turn around a chain of money and professions. Even the skins of the pigs took them and made them solos for shoes. There's nothing right now. We are currently introducing everything from Egypt, from Turkey and from other states. These must be looked at if you really want to help farmers. They've come out - and they're not lying - subsidised programs in our homeland. Do you keep in mind what's going on with bureaucracy? A mess! In order for a farmer or a farmer to collect the papers he needs so much as a bill to go through in Parliament, a bunch of papers. Which one of them are going to do these things? Few people have taken the money they've given. And even more, as we all know, when PASOK was up, he was helping his own people. Also - and I have said this openly in here - he was a former PASOK MEP who had no "one" in his pocket and is currently playing with millions, because he is made from the subsidies of his party. There is a need to reduce bureaucracy in these matters so that the farmer and the farmer can go a little further. What are you going to do with the cooperatives? At the moment in Greece, the cooperatives that work well are few, such as the cooperative of Naxos. They export cheese, they do a very good job, while everyone else is closed or planted, because the money is in some's pockets. You have to do something there, and they have to clean up some things. With regard to taxation for farmers and farmers, are revenue and expenditure applied to a man who has fifty sheep or someone who every year pours out a hundred acres for wheat? Are these things? And does the previous government tell us that it has helped farmers? All this has to be fixed. From there on, from the Agricultural Bank to today for 2010 and 2012 - Mr Apostleou, you know them, you are from Evia - they have not received compensatory subsidies. You know that very well. We need to delete loans to farmers and farmers. Cereals and feedingstuffs must finally leave the Stock Exchange one day. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prices must be set by the state rather than by the Stock Exchange and two large companies that import and upload and download prices whenever they want. The previous government had done something with the wells. He baffled all the wells of the farmers, as if New Democracy and the PASOK had given the farmers the money to open the wells. So, what are we going to do? South America, where 'MONSANTO' even packs up the scalpels that farmers collect to live in? You have to do something with all this, because otherwise the farmer and the farmer are not going to go forward with anything. If you take a walk to Orthomenos in Thebes, you'll see that the fields have a penny left. Why have they left herring? You know that very well. Once the prices for electricity and oil are so high, the farmer is going to do nothing. That's what you need to look at. Also, you need to look at what is happening in Thrace and northern Greece in general with Zirat Bank and the funding it gives, so that once our Thrace will be cosmopulated. There are so many unemployed in Athens. There are too many young people who want to leave, but they don't have any money. These young people must be funded and they must go to buy land there, set up our borders slowly. They shouldn't stay that way. Exports of course are minimal in the face of our imports. And I come back to what I mentioned before about the signatures that had fallen before. Greece doesn't have a heavy industry. It is this, the primary sector, which will maintain so many other businesses along the way. I hope you do something, look at all this. Before I close, let me say that here in the picture I'm showing you, we have a turcoagne recital by Mr. Boutaris. You all see it. Mr. Boutaris also wears a phase. We'll have to enjoy him! We have him in Thessaloniki, too. I have another - it's not from the Golden Dawn newspaper - which is from Mr. Hussein Zabeck. He's your MP. He says here about the mushrooms. He doesn't accept the mufts he has designated by the state. I mean, they want...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Mijo, you've been talking two and a half minutes already. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u217	I'm done. I would like to leave before I leave a message to this gentleman, the German Ziggmar Gabriel, who questions what the Germans owe us. Because first of all, what the Germans owe us, the Golden Dawn, said no one else. Then you took our program and said it. Pick up some biscuits, you too, knock your hand on the table. No Greek owes the Germans. They owe us both their culture and their language and their museums! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Rhodes "Venetoklio" (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will now give the floor to Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. To forgive me for the mistake I made before. I've linked him to the economy and I can't get used to his new role. Mr. Chakallato, you have the floor for fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. I should like to begin by saying that I am proud to be in the same parliamentary group as Hussein Zabeck. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am also proud of the fact that I took part in an election battle on a real confrontation, confrontation of ideas, values, analyses. I think it was one of these election campaigns where people really had different projections to choose. Some of the questions of this electoral controversy were why we are in this confrontation, because we have this stagnation. Is it because of the economic crisis, or is it the subject of the memorandum, the programmes? And the Greek people decided: both. He decided and instructed us that this financial programme, the memorials, failed. It also failed in the level of flow and stock levels, to say in economic terms. Flows mean, we economists, the public deficit, the balance of payments. Both are at some balance. We don't have any deficits. It's in balance, but at a very low level. We may have a balance - Kanes told us and taught us this in the 1930s - on a very low level. And when an economy has lost 25% of GDP, when it has unemployment that is over 25% and youth unemployment over 50%, this is a balance at a very low level. At the same time, for stocks, we cannot even talk about debt balance when it reaches 180% of GDP and when the crisis started was at 120%. We don't even have a balance at that level. Only for this reason would a left-wing government not be able to sign it at the end of the fifth evaluation. We promise that this programme that has failed will not be signed. We're not closing it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We also pledge that we will not talk about these issues with the troika. Not because we think of them as bad people. They are technocrats, but they had a specific mandate, a specific mandate, to discuss the same logic of this programme and to implement this programme. Not to discuss a different programme with a different logic. That is why we are also discussing with the ECB, and we are talking with the Commission, and we are talking with the IMF. But we are talking about institutions with these people who can convince them, about the logic of this programme. But I'm going back to the second. Was the crisis a reason why we're in this mess, no matter what the Memorandum? And in this regard, the Greek people replied that yes, there is also the economic crisis affecting this infatuation that we have and decided that they need reforms, but different reforms with a different figure and different hierarchies. Since the beginning of the crisis, all of the SYRIZA's dealings with this issue have said that it is not just the economic crisis. We have said since the first day that this crisis is also a crisis of values, it is a crisis of institutions, it is a crisis of productive and consumer standards. We've been talking about it all along. Except that the elite of Greece is part of this problem, it is part of the opposite. Of course, like the elite and the parties that supported this elite - the PASOK and the New Democracy - everywhere and always consider that others are to blame for the crisis and not themselves. It's the guilds and especially the public sector. It is the fault of the state and the great state that was dismantling the private sector. It is the popular resistance to neoliberal reforms. We heard that from Mr Simitis, we heard it from Mr Stournara, from Mr Hardouvelis, from all the Prime Ministers of the Memorandums. The Greek people, however, decided something quite different, that we need different reforms, with different hierarchies, that catching oil smuggling is more important than throwing away cleaners and school guards, that confronting big wealth and great tax evasion is more important than putting them with the cleaner. And also - we have said and heard all of Europe - when you baptise'reform' calling on a retired EUR 400 to pay 10 euros to go to see a doctor or take a medicine, he gives a bad name to what reform means. Europe is slowly convinced that this is not reform and wants to hear the real reforms that this state will change, it will change its relationship with the economy and society. That is why we are negotiating with our partners for a different view of reforms. Of course, the OECD is here and we will discuss, but we will not discuss the toolbox. Footnote: It is not at all certain - the historians of the future will say it - whether this toolbox was from the OECD or our people who were passing things through the back door to be inside the reform list. Of course, we will discuss our own ideas with the OECD, because a reform is important. As we are, of course, discussing and consulting the 'LAZARD' on how to deal with the debt and how to create a financial area. LAZARD, of course, has given advice to a previous programme, but we have never said that we know everything, we have never said that we lack technical knowledge. We said they would come to serve a different plan for debt and give their lights on how to create a financial area so that these reforms can live. Because no one believes - nor the London investors - that this country could come out of this crisis with a number of years of primary surpluses of 4.5%. I have to tell you they don't believe it themselves. Investors themselves say that a solution needs to be found, because this medium-term vote last year by the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK are not coming out. No country in world economic history - we have data for over 200 years - has achieved nothing like this. And for one more reason, that in an atrocity, in an uncertainty, in a huge recession, no reform is working. When people are scared, they don't invest. When people are scared, they don't even invest in human capital. Reforms, whether those which this government will support, but also the reforms that you or you would want from there, within this framework, are not working now. And we are slowly convinced by our partners that in order for our own reforms and any reforms to be realistic, there must be a financial area. That is why we need to discuss these issues in relation to budgetary matters. We have very little time. Why do we have too little time? Firstly, why a government that gave it the opportunity to have six months of extension chose two months. Why did he choose two months of extension? Just because he knew he'd lose the election and just because he knew he'd cause a problem. Why do we have so little time? Because a government, for the first time, as far as I know, went to the elections saying that it would become Grexit, that you would lose the testimonies and create budgetary and financial problems for the next government. That's why we're pressed. And thirdly, why we had to convince Europeans that there is a very long distance between what we and what our opponents say that we are talking about. It took a lot of trouble - and this is still going on - to convince Europeans what we are saying. For example, that we are Europeans not for tactical but strategic reasons. Because what we fear above all is a dissolution of the Eurozone, which will return to us in the 1930s with aggressive devaluations, nationalisms, and popular demands will be further marginalised. We are Europeans, because we understand that there are a number of transnational problems that need supranational solutions, such as debt and the environment, and tax competition, but also the partners of the JRC, to deal with the financial markets and the multinationals. Because it has emerged that it is extremely difficult for a country to deal with and deal with multinational and financial markets. Secondly, we must convince our opponents that we are not populists, that the Thessaloniki programme has hierarchies. To convince us that our world itself is not pushing us to do much more immediately. Because all our people understand that when you've lost 25% of GDP, you don't press a button and reach the wages where it was. And our world knows that we need to have priorities, that we need to have a plan, that we need to have a road map. Allow me, before I return to matters of negotiation, to say a few words about my own Ministry which, although it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is also about international economic relations. Upgrading the portfolio of international economic relations at the level of Deputy Minister shows the importance that the government attaches to this issue. Because we really want to work intensively during the presidency for the development of the country's bilateral economic relations, in particular on the following priorities: First, the upgrading and improvement of the services offered by the economic and commercial affairs offices. Support for the institution of the offices of economic and commercial affairs, operating around the world, first of all passes through all the people working in them. We therefore need to show confidence in the experience and competences of these people. I have to tell you that my first contacts with the ministry with the administrative and diplomatic staff and my first contacts in Rome, Berlin, London, with the people facing economic and commercial affairs were very good. We have a very remarkable staffing potential with which I truly look forward to having a very good cooperation and we will build on this structure, as Alexis Tsipras has already said, which already exists. Secondly, the promotion of exports. As is well-known, there are many ministries in their area of responsibility which are engaged in export activities. In the next few years, then, we will take initiatives to improve coordination between all the relevant productive ministries so that exports can be promoted not by ad hoc, but in a well-organised and well-organised way. In this process it must also be seen as being given to our cooperation with producer bodies, the association of exporters, chambers and other professional organisations. We will open a dialogue to identify the problems and omissions that are being observed today, so that we can find together how to deal with them and introduce innovations into our export policy, with a view to increasing them. Thirdly, extending the scope of bilateral economic relations. As you know, the government has set as its goal the productive reconstruction of the Greek economy and also places great emphasis on the role of the social economy. Before the crisis, it was one of the great myths and false accounts that Greece does not produce anything. To give an example, before the crisis, we had an impressive performance in the software sector and we had a rapid growth in production and exports in this area before the crisis, not to talk about science and technology. We know that we have a comparative advantage at this level, based on the knowledge and skills of young scientists. Today, however, not only do we have benefits, but, on the contrary, other countries gain from it. So this situation must be reversed. Let me give another example after the crisis and the rapid development of the social economy in the crisis. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In two minutes' time, Madam President. In short, of course, our economic diplomacy must also be based on promoting production products such as oil, or on traditional sectors such as energy, but I do not see why we should not seek cooperation and synergies with other countries, whether in the field of software or in relation to the social economy. I could say more about my department, but I don't have time. I will say, however, that this arrest, that we can also have economic relations in new areas, shows that this government wants to try to match the old and the new one. The Government will endeavour to create an alternative model of operation of the European and global economy, based on cooperation and solidarity rather than exhaustive competition and economic and social dumping. Continuing and innovative, therefore, because we need to show and demonstrate that Europe can integrate the new, it can incorporate democratic demands, it can incorporate democratic rights, that it is a Europe that listens to new arguments. If you want another reason for this Europe, it is not just macroeconomic, it is not just austerity policies, it is because it has lost this pluralism. For thirty years we have only had one solution, whatever the question, the solution to the market, entrepreneurship, the private sector. It is high time that the European Union's hurricanes were overcome and heard that there are many solutions, pluralist solutions, social solutions, various innovations coming from underneath, from this society. And those who accuse us of saying the old things I think they've forgotten to hear and don't see the new one coming forward. For this Europe, we negotiate, a Europe that is open, democratic, which is consulted, which can compose, but which is not stuck in the rules, will not be stuck in an old model that has failed. I think they are listening to us in Europe, precisely because we have things to say. And when you have things to say, they always listen to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotos. I will now give the floor for six minutes to Mr Theocharis, a Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami, for his second language. But let me first read out the list of speakers who will then speak. It is immediately after Mr Tasoulos Konstantinos from New Democracy, Mr Michalakis Nikolaos from SYRIZA, Mrs Marcos Catherine from Potami, and then Ms Valavani Nadia, Deputy Minister for Finance. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to express my pleasure at Mr Tsakalotou's speech, which I have just heard, a speech which was very modest, which raises a number of issues on a proper basis. Obviously, we have some disagreements and we keep them, so we can develop them then. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But let's start first of all something small. Yesterday Mr Karagiannides from the Step of the House accused us of not following the Ministers' speeches and talking about the minimum guaranteed income, having prepared speeches that say you have not included it in your Programming Declarations. Just because I had not followed Mrs Fotio's speech, I asked for the Minutes - and I thank the relevant service of the House for helping me get the Minutes - and I confirmed that in her speech the Minister responsible did not refer to the minimum guaranteed income, an innovation. Unfortunately, in our country we badly call innovation the minimum guaranteed income, which exists in all the other countries of the European Union. Mrs. Liberaki said it yesterday and I don't need to repeat it. We would ask you to rethink the subject and see it. Instead of making fragmentary solutions on various issues, supporting once again the roof, at another time something else, on the third time the current, to see whether we can have targeted interventions in the families that really need it. We think that one of the reasons why, in social policy, we have social transfers that are above average - at least in recent years - of the European Union, but do not have the same results, they do not reduce poverty, as in the other countries of the European Union, is that we do not look at the best experience in other countries. I would like to refer to some practical issues and, if you like, take it as an attempt, with our own forces, from the Potami, to give some advice on the immediate negotiations that you have to make in the next few years. We know we have a Eurogroup tomorrow. It is very likely that you do not have the opportunity to reach an agreement. There is also the Eurogroup next Monday. You will have to 'peace' too much, so that you can agree too many issues that are open. Personally, I have followed such agreements and negotiations and I can assure you that it is not easy to close them in one day. What financial targets will you have for this year? Because he's obviously coming to the end of the bridge program for the next few years. What will be the 70% timetable for the actions with which you agree? What won't you do? What are the red lines? Tell us whether or not we have to negotiate them with the partners, whether they accept them and what their own red lines are. How are you gonna freeze 30%? What are you going to put in his place? What will be the framework under which this agreement will be monitored once it is done? What will we not be able to do during this bridge agreement? For example, to get away from these budgetary objectives or to make ministerial decisions, laws adopted, as we have heard today by the Step of the House, the relevant Minister, Mr. Military, say that he will do or that he has already begun to do so. All these things are very difficult. You have little time and look at whether you really can take advantage of this time in the best way possible or whether you have to go to an extension - whether technically or not - of the existing agreement, by keeping up your objections, and they are respected. The Greek people have raised your first party in the House and it is clear that we, too, agree that many things from the previous programmes must change. More generally, speaking about the frameworks for the next few months - if everything goes well and you can come to an agreement - bridge - obviously the issues that are just being pushed further need to be resolved in the next few months. We believe in the Potami that the queen of the reforms is the public. Give me your glance there. In the public sector, we have done thorough studies. We have our Member of State, Mr Kartsouli, who was in committee, who wrote these proposals. Look at them, public are and try to give the independence needed in the public administration. We ask you to make choices outside of the election cycle, choices that are right. We have some samples, such as Mr Dane you chose for Secretary of the ILO. He's a worthy employee, but he's a seventy-seven-year-old retired. Where are the fresh ideas you need to bring? Look at bringing renewal to the public, letting the public operate, give him public targeting, and you can be sure that the civil servants have the ability to find solutions and do not need the political system to continue to provide solutions - doing micro-management - on how we can achieve the goals that the political leadership has to set properly. Finally, use open data. Open data can indeed give a proper picture and reduce the possibilities of corruption. The state's control role - and I was very pleased that Mr Nikolaoudis is dealing with this issue and his speech today has given us his positions - is very important and he must, above all, be strengthened. When we can find a solution and the state's control role work properly, and the private sector will work better. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a few seconds. On the other hand, what we would like to say and come and disagree is this: let us not be as ambitious as I have heard Mr Tsakalotos say that we will change the European and global map. I wish! I wish we could make it. Right now, problems are more tangible. The problems are the problems of the country, the problems affecting the everyday life of the world. That is what we need to deal with and we need to give solutions. The world has called for a redefinition of priorities, but has asked for you to change the priorities. He didn't ask for money to be created from scratch. He didn't ask for the laws of numericals to change, they're not going to make the money out of nothing. When we have to emphasise, for example, the humanitarian crisis, as you say, or extreme poverty, as we say in other words, this means that we need to get resources from other options, stop the other options and not make money from zero. It can't be done. We hope that as a government you will be able to do this and give these priorities that the Greek people really ask for. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I would ask you to speak on personal grounds because my name has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u223	Is there a matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u224	Yeah, because there's a distortion in what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u225	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u226	Mr Theocharis continues his political deafness. I would ask you to look at my Minutes, then, and read exactly what I said. If you're in trouble to understand, I can write it to you. I said, therefore, that Mrs Theanos Fotio yesterday announced a package of solidarity. This package of solidarity and humanitarian crisis includes much more than the minimum guaranteed income. I don't understand your obsession with the minimum guaranteed income. Perhaps the answer is that some people from Potami have a very specific project for the minimum guaranteed income that is via the NRP and private company. So let them tell us something else than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds. It is obvious that there is an issue with an ESRB or that we have done here a personal policy. We're all MPs. We respect the representative of the Greek people. Please respect us. We have just said that all the countries of the European Union have a minimum guaranteed income as the most effective policy. We have said that the abundance of various interventions, which is the classic recipe that we have been following over the years has not brought any effect and is not going to change anything and bring it now. You blame us for political deafness. In any case, I do not want to go on with it. I'm returning any designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u228	Thank you. The matter is now closed. After thanking the previous speakers, we move on to Mr Constantine Tasoula from New Democracy. Mr. Tasula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, the reality created since the elections on 25 January is quite pressing. And it is quite pressing we want - we do not want, not because there has been some conspiracy, which has made it pressing, but because we have decided - and it has been adopted by the vote of the Greek people - to speed up developments, to make use of the election of the President of the Republic for internal political reasons and to blow up a process that would otherwise have been completed and exploited the most serious sacrifices suffered by the Greek people in order to reach agreement with our lenders and partners, and to get out of the crisis in accordance with the programme, which provided for the preventive credit line for the end of the memorandum. There was no conspiracy. SYRIZA chose not to elect President of the Republic and to provoke elections at a time when it was almost obvious that the Greek people, annoyed, angry, pressed by a four-year string, would break out politically, not admiring your views but punishing those who, in his opinion, brought his life to this string. Now remains the reality. All this is a distant past. The past doesn't change. What we can change is our present and future. I would not like to get rid of unnecessary flattery or admonitions in ears of unhearing, but, in my opinion, I would like to describe the reality, not anyone who gets involved in this view. They will realize that beyond the ideologies, fantasies, infictions and the view that "we are something new, something pure unlike others" - something that comes from the rhythms and seasons of EAM possibly as some imagine - there is nothing but reality! Unlike all these fantasies, I believe that unsolved reality and contact with reality are much more useful even than comprehensible enthusiasm of the first few days. The reality is that the European Union, after five years of hesitation and provocation, has decided to change its tactics and to launch an aggressive policy against recession and unemployment. It decided to finance both its liquidity and its growth and investments. The Draghi package and the Junger package exceed a trillion euros and the worst of cases - no matter what we imagine to be - account for more than 20 billion euros in Greece. The price of maintaining the country in the Eurozone has been paid by the Greek people but the result, which today allows the new government to negotiate, is the surplus of the budget and the destruction of the twin deficits that have tortured the country since the post-war period. There is neither a deficit in the current account nor a deficit in the annual management of the State. You don't start with a virgin soil. The enthusiasm, inexperience, the legitimate sense of victory after so many years in the political margin can make you feel that history begins on January 25th. It's not like that. It's never been like that. History is always a skateboarding, and it will always be good to look at the doggy taking her forward rather than buzzing and bumping with his country. So today, when Europe has decided to change, today that the memorandum has formally expired at the end of December and remains the Memorandum of the International Monetary Fund until 2016, is the country today in an awkward, curious, paradox? - negotiation with the European Union, because SYRIZA feels that it can be seen from a zero base and because it feels that an internal political mobilisation can change international ties. I wish it were. I wish you could say that the Greek people do not want the austerity. And by the way, who told you that austerity doesn't only want 36% for voting on you? Do you think the 28% that voted for us or any other parties wants austerity? Are they massagers? Nobody wants the austerity. There's just one realism in some, there's an indignation in others, there's a lot of hope in others, there's different behaviors in the electorate, which is not about the divisions you put yourself into. All Greek citizens want us to get out of the crisis. And nowadays, you have it and you have a huge responsibility. The Prime Minister's Programming Statements did not understand much. We realised that it is more on the inside and has the illusion that internal front messages can overthrow entrenched international connections. It's not like that. And when I say 'it's not like that' I say it neither by slavery nor defeat. I say this by the necessary realism, which must all govern us, because we do not manage our anchor or our success or defeat at the moment. We manage the fate of a people who have decided to put their luck at your hands, not to blow it up in the air or to play it in the dice, but to bring it to fruition. And it is not surprising that many and many of the people who voted for you did so because they did not believe that you would carry out what you are now threatening to do. So the meaning of the mandate is not as clear as you think the Greek people often do what they vote for an outburst and without completely accepting what you were saying in word. But today you are a government with a sufficient majority, tomorrow you will be at the Eurogroup, next Monday you will be at the next mid-week summit. This test of the Greek people must be terminated. And it must end not with revolutionary fantasies, but it must end with the meticulous adaptation to Europe's data and the interests of Greece. Mr Katrougalos said earlier that Greece was like the colony described by Kavafis, who actually describes a colony in a difficult position and ironizes the reformers of the colony. But the poem of Kavafis for the colony for Greece does not apply. There is another poem, in my opinion, since poems and maids have been heard here. The “Alexandros Philippi and the Greeks other than Lacekimones” applies, a much more exciting poem in which, after describing the victory in Issos, the Arbela, the Granikos, says that with these included, the enthusiastic victories a new, great Greek world emerged. And it complements: "This new Greek world, the great, with its extensive territories and the diverse action of the reflective adjustments, brought the inclusive Greek lion to Bastrian, to the Indians". The diverse action of the meditation adjustments is what you must do and not the fantasies of the revolution that will light up all of Europe. Follow the various actions of the meditation adjustments and neither will SYRIZA nor Greece regret. For now because in the Programming Declarations I have heard fantasies, I have heard revolutions, I have heard unrealistic things, I will not contribute to the support of this government. Be well and wish good success in the diverse action of meditary adjustments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. Mr Nikolaos Michalakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, it's not a fantasy to want to save your people, it's a reality. Fantasy I think it's what you're living for, that you don't understand. And you have not basicly understood the message of the elections of 25 January, a message of hope, democracy, dignity and justice. The people's vote made a reality of the break with the recent Memorandum of Understanding of the Failed Two-party regime and the establishment of the Government of Social Rescue and Social Upgrade, a government that unequivocally and unequivocally proposes justice, the consolidation of a rule of law, the formation of a social state without the bad texts and diseases of the past, so that the country returns to normality and the health sector with a firm social state - not a shadow of a third-world society - with a social state that will end the health tragedy, the dissolution of public health, the collapse of the state of the National Health System. The government of social salvation inherited a health in an unprecedented crisis. Significant parts of the population, uninsured, young and underemployed, are outside health care, mainly because of institutional obstacles, lack of care and clear institutional safeguarding of their right, the absence of adequate financing of the system, the counterfeiting of the concept of public free and universal access to hospitals, pharmacy and doctors. That is why the Government has promised us and is immediately implementing a classic, social policy for the most vulnerable, economic and socially excluded, the poor and the small and medium-sized ones, who paid the marble of the crisis and successive memoranda. There will be a reduction and targeted elimination of the burdens and participations that patients have been asked to pay for their examinations, medicines, treatments, increased public funding and discriminatory redirection of resources managed by the Ministry and the EEAS. This will be done through the fight against tax evasion and the reorientation of expenditure, with support to staff, equipment and infrastructure in priority ERC structures in an operational, economic and labour completely marginal situation. It is a staff that has really been self-sacrificingly supported by the whole health system in these years of the Memorandum of Understanding policy. It will be done by direct and prioritisation of intensive care units, so that the country will leave the shameful situation behind lost lives because of closed ICUs. It will be done by combating corruption and waste in the procurement of the public sector or in the charges and charges of the private speculative sector in order to save valuable resources in order to direct and exploit the continuous support of the ERC to staff and equipment. With these methods formed, seriously, scheduled, step-by-step, step-by-step, the ESS will be rectified, the feeling of health security in the population will be restored, the gaps in personal and logistical support will be filled, the sub-committeeing and sub-financing of the public system will be terminated. All of this is a basis for the recovery of migratory haemorrhage in young scientists, young doctors, new pharmacists and nurses, which our country has been living in recent years. In the last three years alone, more than 15 000 young health scientists have emigrated to countries in Europe, the United States and Australia, thus depriving our country of one of the most dynamic and important layers of the young population. We are giving the fight of dignity, upsurge and reconstruction, so that these people can be repatriated and work and revived with their knowledge, experience and training. We also take the lead and recognize the experience and offering of the country's social doctors and pharmacys, the volunteers, the people who have'retarded' our life, time and pocket - are not fantasies - in order to support the needy, uninsured and excluded from their health needs. That is why we have clearly given priority to the programme of Thessaloniki to the free medical treatment of our insecure fellow citizens and as a government we are making progress in implementing this commitment. With these basic, key and unnegotiable positions and priorities, Greece and society will return to normality. The Government will restore to health the European acquis of the social state, social cohesion, personal and family health and well-being, collective and individual self-confidence and optimism. These thoughts, these hopes gave the poll on January 25 the people's vote on the government of social salvation and reconstruction. With the same ideas and priorities, I, too, give the vote of confidence to this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u232	And we thank Mr. Michalakis. Mrs Marcos from Potami follows Mrs Valavani, Mr Giokas and Mr Cameroon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to congratulate you, too, and wish you success in your difficult task, as well as wishing the government good success and knowing that we will be with you when you are out there and negotiate, because if you succeed, our country will have succeeded. But when you're here, we'll criticize you. Ladies and gentlemen, 15 days after the elections we have the 'Thessaloniki plus' programme. I won't, of course, get into details. I don't have time. It doesn't make any sense. The programme itself does not allow it to do so. Moreover, how can one disagree at first with certain things, such as free electricity in three hundred thousand households? But why not those who do not pay, that is, six hundred thousand households? Certainly, some will find themselves and say in nine hundred thousand or one million. Can anyone disagree with that? Is there anyone who could be against it? I guess not. What I want to say, however, is that, unfortunately, the more free electrode today, the more they will be the ones who will need it tomorrow. I am bringing this example from the programme of the government because it has this characteristic - let me say - somewhat outdated of the real experience of philosophy, which is against the current of the majority in Parliament, I shall say that it is completely out of place and time. The programme is based on redistribution without resources, while it should try to increase resources, income, jobs, product and then redistribute to those who do not have or need. But again, without forgetting that money is being given with motivation to catch a place. Even for the unemployed, for whom I do not hear much about, but only re-intakes, it is important to try on policies that reinstate them into the country's production machine and not just transfer them very little money. While much of the country is watching things from a distance and waiting, banks and businesses, small and large, are sinking into evil. The economy has stopped, the banks have lost tens of billions again, no one knows how many businesses will be saved this time. Does anyone have to deal with this? Is the government involved? On the contrary: so far, only debt write-offs have concerned her, after the 'development bonds', which she has abandoned. After all, why should anyone at first sight disagree with the deletion? But who will deal with the impact on international relations and the long-term image of the country? And all this in the European field, after the government has declared that the deletion relates to the bilateral European loans and loans of the EFSF. So I'll say I'm sorry. I think this should not be done. Yes, we should call for liquidity facilities for 2015 for increased obligations. Yes, we can have an extension of repayment of loans, which is not at the expense of Europeans. But to tell them that 'we will not pay you, because mistakes have been made in the programme', that is, yes, the ears of most here, but we must pay attention to that. It brings us to the average European citizen, which will thus turn sooner or later against us. The good European climate is not Mr Varoufakis' Facebook 'likes', it is the European middle class, which watches silently and then gives the orders to its politicians. That's what we should be interested in. In any case, the agonist for the hotel owner at Cross Thessaloniki, who is trying to save his business with nails and teeth. Jelly for the farmer in Lagada who's in despair. Appropriations for the taxation of farmers from the first euro. Female for the dairy industries that close, having been subsidised by the Greek State. Appropriations for the losses incurred by farmers and farmers who are taxed. Filthy for the free professional with the empty block and the list full of taxes on the tax. Filthy for the craftsman trying to save the work and jobs of his friends and employees. Are these details on the radical left of ideas? Yes, ladies and gentlemen. They are the ones who watch the tops - below SYRIZA, which states that he cares about the poor and the productive machinery of the country, but his government is ready - I would say - to re-take all known faces to the banks, the well-known officials, who are often available for every government. You are now adding to this situation the various announcements of additional taxation of the so-called high and medium-income, with the culmination of burdensome deposit taxation as an asset of E9, which Mr Stathakis has assured us is not going to do. So you'll have a full menu of disastrous policy. It's the first lesson in macro-economics a student does, that savings are invested. But you prefer to tell them to put money in the chests, because in any case, as happens in Chinese capitalism, the party shares the money and manages the economy. Is that your model? The government is practicing citizens, closing their eyes and saying: "I say I will give you an increase, I will make the tax free and so on, and let the state who is struggling with you." Politics as a closure of an eye has a name: old-fashioned communism. Others' money policy, credit policy and air words can't be done. And even if it were to happen to ignore the appeals and to prioritise a reasonable agreement with the partners and quickly the economy would come back and achieve the 2-3% growth expected for this year, one could answer the government's logic that 'first we will find the money from smuggling, for example, and then look at the benefits'. But that's not what you want either. Unfortunately, you seem to choose the closure of the eye and on a sea of ferrous to drive the ship. And as Pouldza said, do a manoeuvre with the eye. Finally, we heard a few hours ago by Mr Varoufakis that 70% of the memorandum is right, which Mr Philis also confirmed a moment ago. Does the Prime Minister really know that? The left wing MPs know that? Ladies and gentlemen, the government has declared it inappropriate to lenders and Europeans. It is politically in favour of this, but of the heavy cost - which I despise! - will fall into the country's production machine. I warn you the bill will come high. And don't tell us it's our fault and the lenders. You're no longer opposition. And do not be fooled by the consent of the world, because many people really are watching through - behold the government and Mr Varoufakis. However, we must point out that the axe will be heavy on the people' s backs, if the country falls into an accident, which - I repeat - I despise with all my powers. Unfortunately, your policy now makes it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mrs Marcus. Mr Nadia Valavani has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Social Rescue SYRIZA - ANEL is called upon in practice to justify the vote which gave it 40% of the Greek people and the much wider support from this post-election support. And it is called upon to do so at the same time that a very difficult negotiation is taking place with those who have a dual status, that of the partner and at the same time the lender of the country. In order to negotiate with the Greek Government's demand that it reach an honest and forward-looking compromise, which will determine the act of the intentions, of a historical nature, of the country, of the Prime Minister's Schedule Declarations, I would like to assure you that we remember very well what the basic requirement was for all those who have expressed their support in the election campaign. 'Don't sell us!'. This is the commitment of the new government and its individual members as a whole. The workers will already have to take care of this commitment from their own point of view. Over the last five years in our country and under the policy of internal devaluation introduced by the memoranda and led to a declining spiral of all the values of the economy and smashed the price of work - with a more fundamental 'tool', not a 'total loss', an increase of one million unemployed people - has been implemented with great hardship and an analgesia in the field of taxation a 'hardness', graceful arrangements and tax changes without precedent for a European state. In times of crisis, they rediscover more, with particular violence, the wealth of the many to the few and to the outside and also turned the Greek economy and society into tax "experimental animals". The indirect taxation that everyone pays regardless of their income has been assimilated to the immediate effect. From this point of view and taking into account the well-known content of the e-mail of the previous Minister of Finance, perhaps our first programming statement on taxation should be negative. No, it will not increase VAT on tourism and focus, drawing the carpet under the feet of the only economic activity that has developed in recent years. No, it won't change the VAT on food when there are hundreds of thousands of tables with empty dishes. No, it will not increase VAT on medicines, when millions of citizens cannot even pay for their involvement with the existing one. The truth is that in these five years the concept of real tax capacity has gradually been eliminated by tax law. At the reverse of these choices, we are moving towards a substantial reform of the tax system in line with the constitutional requirements for a fair distribution of tax burdens. Of each according to their actual, not imputable, burden-sharing capacity. Which, today, thanks to the electronic database that exists, and which, of course, still needs to be very much improved - and the data cross-checks, which are being carried out, and of course, almost ready by the previous government, I must tell you that this is not a tax instrument and, of course, it is not on the basis of which the deposits will not be taxed, as I have heard a long time ago by Mrs Marcos, it can be determined precisely for most of their actual tax capacity. It is also clear that this objective for a fair and stable tax system will remain incomplete if it is not accompanied by practical measures to combat tax evasion, avoidance and smuggling, as well as bureaucratic links to service - essentially at first level today, rescue - citizens and businesses before all small and medium-sized enterprises. The new tax policy in this direction actually starts today. By the end of this year, among many others, five will probably be the most decisive steps: Firstly, the abolition of the HPAI and its replacement by the large property tax, with duty-free the first residence for the vast majority of the Greek people - will be taxed only by the ultra-government - and the immediate relief of the large majority, which will not be taxed at all, as the scale and the enforcement of the new law will be progressive. At the same time, objective values will have been revised and adjusted by implementing last year's binding decision of the Council of State, which gives us time for this adjustment by June. The loss of billions of euros from HNVY in 2015 will be restored through the great effort to combat tax evasion, avoidance and smuggling, which will be developed with determination. Secondly, with overdue public debts going beyond, as we all know, the EUR 70 billion, but the majority of which are old debts and it is impossible to collect them, we want all citizens, if possible, to have a system of regulation. That is why we will continue for a few more months the possibility of adjusting debts by up to a hundred instalments, immediately removing all the restrictions that prevented the large majority from entering this system. In the second phase, they will be included in the arrangements and debts to the insurance funds. The margins are enormous, as the debt arrangements are totalling today only ninety thousand citizens, sixty-eight thousand with the last ones set in the hundred instalments over the last few months, while under settlement it is a total of only 2 billion of all of the current arrangements, i.e. less than the debts due over the two months. So ineffective and so deadly is actually this policy, which creates debts much faster than it can regulate them. We also believe that the lifting of the EUR 1 million ceiling will help, as less than EUR 1 million - so theoretically able to be regulated today - is only EUR 16 billion. We believe that in the out-of-court committees by region, which we announced in Thessaloniki and which will examine the actual burden-sharing capacity of the taxpayer for debt settlement as a percentage of his income, in order to make it easier for citizens who prove to be unable to pay taxes and insurance contributions, only those who prove to be unable to join the substantially restructured system of 100 instalments will have to resort. Third, in the second half of 2015, the new income tax system will be established, which will apply to incomes acquired by individuals and enterprises in 2015 and will be declared in 2016. It will be a decisive step in the direction of tax justice, as a tax-free threshold of EUR 12 000 and a single and progressive tax scale with too many ratings will be introduced, in the direction of transferring substantial tax burdens to the high and very high incomes. We have time to look carefully at each side of the new tax bill in the context of an institutionalised social dialogue, with stakeholders and citizens, which will help us to correct the original version before it is tabled for discussion and decision in Parliament, and it will launch a tax policy that society will support and will not have been imposed automatically as it has been. Fourthly, I would like to ask Members who speak of a wish concerning war against tax evasion, tax evasion, smuggling before all fuels and cigarettes, the various lists, the special regimes of offshore companies, intra-group and triangular transactions, and the well-known tax system and the literal 'triangle of Bermuda', to speak again at the end of the year. Then we will be able to judge whether or not there will be significant tangible first results from the new operational plans implemented by the IAEA together with the customs and other authorities and in close cooperation of the Ministry of Finance with the new Anti-Corruption Authority of the Minister of State, maintaining and strengthening the General Secretariat for Public Incomes of Permanent Preventive Controls. However, in order to make this a reality, the Ministry of Finance will need the understanding and assistance of all the Ministries and the independent authorities, so that it can take immediate support and reinforcement measures numerically, educational and legislative tax mechanisms, with a view to the remuneration of the new entrants in particular, as it does not make sense to check the cases of millions of euros by the younger auditors who are currently taking 750 euros minus this month. At the same time, we are moving towards measures to deal more effectively with corruption and ensure transparency. Fifthly - but not lastly in terms of importance - we trust and exploit the potential of public services at all levels. We know that in the mess that we found in the public administration, especially after the signature of the new agencies at the end of December, many functions are kept in the Ministry of Finance only thanks to the self-sacrificial sacrifice of several officials and in some cases to the prosecution mechanisms, for example also the bravery of some other officials towards illegal service orders or to secret or opener threats from the part of persons controlled. We will ensure that the various departments and addresses of the Ministry are re-established with measures not in absentia, but in consultation with the managers and, where possible, with all the employees. The radical upgrading of information structures will also be of great help here. Of all the staff of the Ministry, we only ask for one thing: to give all and all their best in the next period, working with honesty for the implementation of government policy and with respect to the citizen. I would say that the more afflicted is the citizen who is to their faces, the smaller the enterprise that is actually called upon to help save, the greater respect they must have. We will only be on one issue - if you allow me to use the word - ruthless. That's corruption. As has already been announced, the sacked cleaners of the services of the Ministry of Finance will be hired throughout the country. First of all, because in the hardest conditions for a year and a half these women, most of whom have been helping all the work of taxes outside their own duties and outside their working hours, have become one of the leading symbols of the struggles that gave the most combat parts of our workers and our people to overthrow the social holocaust. We are bowing towards them. Secondly, because there are taxes today - for a year and a half - on third-world cleanliness conditions for officials and traders. I have devoted almost all my speech to tax matters, not because the issues of public property or of HIDE are less important, but because the combination of a direct tax relief for the majority of society and the concentration of public revenues is currently of absolute priority. I would like to assure all of us, however, friends, politicians and other opponents, and before all the movements of workers in the business and the committees of residents, and especially the Committee on the former Greek airport - since other ministers have already placed themselves on issues respectively - that none of us forgets the struggles that we have played together over the past few years. We will be up to the task of ending the plundering and safeguarding the public's public property, for real use - and not divestment - and indeed for a rugged block of businesses and immovable property, for the needs of the country's productive reconstruction and development, for the purpose of serving the real needs of our people, for the recovery of the work and dignity of workers and the country which accompanies it, on the one hand, for the strengthening of the social security funds on the other. You will also allow me to address an individual issue which, however, has its own criticality. The new Greek Government will restore a flagrant injustice involving fifteen thousand families, in their overwhelming majority of micro-enterprises, many of them migrant workers in other countries. And everyone with their own crime that they trusted the state with their life savings. Based on this restoration, it will be the agreement reached with their representatives during the previous parliament. In a specific context, it will address the problem of workers whose bonds were given by the public as compensation for their dismissal. I would like to close with an appeal to all citizens: we will do as quickly as possible to allow us to legislate on our duty, ensuring beyond this and a number of immediate measures of personal relief and start-up of the economy, from the central point of view, 'no first home to come out to the hammer for debts personally or business to the public', until the simplification and rationalisation of administrative fines, does not continue to freeze the commitment of wage bills for small and medium-sized enterprises, which essentially shuts them down or confiscations even agricultural subsidies, which is normally forbidden, or the commitment of people whose debts have been regulated. Of all the citizens who want unbearable pressures, this government is now being held on the basis of the Prime Minister's Programming Declarations and is able to achieve their goals in the near future, and we are asking for one thing. Without the heaviest external coercives, without the threat of conceiving and subscribing public debts, which we will eliminate, with the exception of large cases, without fear of seizures of even their own home - and the seizures of the deposits we know from whom it has been to date, things are very fresh - we invite them: Firstly, they should pay the last dose of ENVY 2014, that of February, and together with the last dose of ENVY, that of January, those who have not done so. In this way we will be able to get rid of the most effective way of the ENVY, which, in 2015, was predicted to be another 3.4 billion. Secondly, to pay directly with the February VAT and January VAT for those who have not done so. Thirdly, they should be immediately integrated this week into the regulation of the hundreds of instalments for debts to the public by all those who can do so and have not done so. We are committed that from the lifting of the restrictions on regulation and new incentives, not only those who cannot enter today, because they are practically excluded from this regulation, but all those who have already adjusted their debts when the regulation is opened for everyone. On these three issues, we are not only addressing those in the current circumstances who have the opportunity to do so. We are also addressing those who cannot. We know that before all of these are the ones who will soberly weigh what they have to gain and what to lose. And we are sure that they are the ones who will rush to do so, regardless of their current real tax capacity. Because when a government begins to think about how justice will be restored to the daily lives of people and to everyone individually and acts in such a direction, to help practically, individually, to have the necessary wages, pensions, education, health, welfare, culture, sport, public revenues, is a patriotic task and at the same time a personal investment in the future. Finally, I would like to appeal to the journalists' friends. The members of the Ministerial Council are asking for a time-lag in order to adapt to our roles that are completely foreign in relation to our own collective and individual way. Give us a time-consuming breath so that, as collectively as possible, together with the workers in the ministries, we can start legislating not about what is needed for a long and serious consultation, but the most immediate relief measures. It's a period that we need to do more than we say. And surely, for the Ministry of Finance it's true that for some of the things we want to do, so we don't put them at risk, it's better to talk after we've done them. For all these reasons, as you can see, I am voting for the Programmatic Declarations and I am voting for a vote of confidence in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mrs Valavani. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Rhodes "Venetoklio", (B' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please take the Step to see Mr. Giokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the pre-election period and despite bipartite polarisation, two fundamental logics were conflicted: It was one logic that said that Europe and, more specifically, the European Union, is changing. And whether this logic was expressed by the policy of the New Democracy and its allies, which said stability, the completion of the evaluation in order not to lose the train of changes in Europe, quantitative relaxation, the money of Draghi, or expressed by variations, with SYRIZA's policy of saying governmental rotation and tough negotiation within the European Union for another policy mix. The other logic was the one expressed by the JRC, which said clearly and clearly without caring for the people, that the next day the people will have to deal with the European Union which is not changing, which is worse for the people, will have to deal with the memoranda of the European Union, it will have to deal with the business groups, the big capital, all those who the European Union is serving for its birth. We are fifteen days after the election, and everyone and every goodwill, with all that we live, can see more clearly who was right: those who said that the European Union is changing or those who say that the European Union remains the same, serves the same interests for which it has been built and that the real overthrow can only be a break on this road? Is the European Union something uniform and solid? Oh, no. There are contradictions, there is a relentless war of interests, of states, of large business groups about who will get out of the crisis or who will get less lost. There is the axis of France - Italy that is pushing Germany for another policy mix. And it is clearer that behind the crowns for tough and proud negotiations the government's identification with this axis and the direct involvement of the United States of America is hidden. Mr Friends just remembered the Communist International and the contradictions. He's a little confused. It is another thing to take advantage of the contradictions to overthrow a system and it is another thing to be costed behind interests to serve a system. It's another thing to make use of, and it's another way to make use of you, as it is. Here are a number of crucial questions for the people. First question: Does the people have to win from whether or not they will prevail? We say no, because the change in the policy mix is not called for to increase wages, pensions, social benefits, but to save state resources directed at investment, recovery, support for capital. That is why everyone, and those who appear as opponents of the Greek government, Dieselblum, Merkel, but those who the Greek government considers them to be allies, Olad, Renci and go by saying that the commitments must be respected and the reforms continued. The second question is whether there is a return to capitalist development, for which you are all suffering, both ex and current. The people will get back what they lost? No, no, no, no, no, no, Besides, there are examples of sectors of the economy, such as tourism, which has been a recovery over all these years, there has been a record of profitability and workers have not improved their position. Mrs Valvaani just now said that the tourism sector was the only sector that has developed over the years of the crisis. That's right! What Mrs Valavani has not said, however, was what the hotel officials have lost these years and whether the position of hotel staff and all the employees in the tourism sector has improved since this development. So when you talk about recovery, when you talk about the end of the memorial and the troika, the first thing you should normally promise is to recover the losses for the people. Whether to be in a month, two months or six months is secondary. But is anyone here talking about recovering the losses? The Thessaloniki program, which, from a 100-day programme in September, became a four-year programme, says such a thing? It is a philosophical, radical programme or is a programme that tells the people "forget everything you lost and reconcile with the crumbs, which will be given somehow, with asterisks and the rest of the workers". Mrs Valavani also mentioned two minutes ago the patriotic duty of those who do not have to pay the last taxes. He said it was a patriotic duty. It has not devoted ten seconds to saying which provocative tax exemption for large capital, shipowners will be abolished by the legal, provocative, tax exemptions they enjoy. Mia! We didn't hear anything. Even the minimum wage, EUR 751, you take him to 2016, and not to a law, as we say - we will propose to come back by law - but if the partners agree, market self-regulation, as Mr Skourletis said. Why is it going for 2016? Why should the social partners be prepared, as the Prime Minister said in the Programmatic Declarations? What preparations should industrialists, big-time dealers, the big-timers to give the EUR 751? One preparation: Adapting the contracts, reducing the labour costs and all those who work today, but also those who may take a little more to absorb and any increase will be in the next period. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Minister of Labour spoke of flexible working relationships and how bad they are. Of course they're bad. Will you remove them? Oh, no! Not even this lousy modern slave trade in the hire of workers did not say that it would abolish, only a restriction, not even a abolition of this modern slave trade. Hence, and all that is heard for a simple life, for poverty management, for an agreement with 70% of the memorandum and all that. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. Because in SYRIZA's proposals there is a basic condition, a cornerstone. This is to respect the rules of the European Union and to bow to the objective of capitalist development, which are fully incompatible with the needs of the workers. And I close, Mr President, by saying this. I do not want to mention the exorcism that has existed all these days by the government and by ministers and MPs who have spoken about the European Union. And what we didn't hear! For the people's sovereignty guaranteed by the Treaties of the European Union, for the democracy to be returned, for the common European home. Mercy! As the European Union up to the memoranda was paradise and everything changed overnight when the crisis and the memoranda came. But I shall refer to it - and I shall end with it - from now on. There is also a debate on the sovereignty that has returned to the country. And we want to ask these simple questions. From tomorrow, since sovereignty has returned to the country, will we be able to produce as a country within the framework of, for example, the rural economy what we can do as a country without quotas, commitments and restrictions? Will we be able to prevent physical imports of products that we can import as a country? Will the state support and finance us to have shipyards, transport, infrastructure to meet the needs of the country and the people? Of course not, because all this is incompatible with the sanctuaries and loyalties of the European Union. Let go of the great talk of returning sovereignty. The people have every right to want to get rid of memorial, surveillance measures, anti-grassroots measures. However, this cannot be done by negotiating within the walls of the European Union, with the chains of capital, on a path that the current government continues. People's sovereignty is indivisible with the urgent need for wealth to pass into the hands of the working people. The productive potential that this country has is indifferent with the release from the European Union, and this is the path of a racing, proud, dignified attitude to the real victory of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Before giving the floor to Mr Cameroon, the Deputy Minister for Finance wants to make a brief speech. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I will be brief. Firstly, if you took a look at the Minutes - but I think you should remember that, because you are always in the Chamber - of the previous House, Mr Colleague, you would see that in most cases where I referred to this very thing, namely that the only thing that has blossomed was tourism, I was referring to the workers. You are absolutely right about the workers. That's exactly the situation. The fact that I am the Deputy Minister of National Economy does not make me forget what I supported a month ago as a Dedicated Opposition. Secondly, there is no problem with tourism alone with the workers. There is also the revenue. If you see, you will understand that for a huge increase in tourism, the revenues they invented are completely disproportionate. And that puts too many sides, such as the side of what is actually happening with small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in tourism, where they work almost "flat" and that is why they are resorting to black work as well. In other words, there is a need for a comprehensive plan to defend work and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which must be followed. However, the rest of the question of work and development is not the object of the ministry that I represent. Thirdly, with regard to tax exemptions and tax evasion, which are absolutely issues of the Ministry of Economy, I would like to say that here we will be in the next few months, and I think we will have the opportunity to discuss them completely specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u240	I'm just pointing out I didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u241	Fourth and last, who will practically defend such a government like ours? The ones they have or the ones they don't have? And who will today help keep this government within the enormous pressures that exist, which take practical form? The ones they have or the ones they don't have? I think that before all - and perhaps - the second ones will do so, because they understand to a large extent what the interests of this government is coming to serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mrs Valavani. Mr. Katameros has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also a great honour to participate in this part-session, which I think is a great responsibility, and of course, as my compatriots, the islanders of the Dodecanese, have given me to represent them here. We regional parliamentarians have a feeling - I, at least, feel - that we have a two-way responsibility: to specialise central policy in our region, but also to contribute and integrate the problems of our regions into central policy. For the island policy, those who have not lived on islands cannot understand. And I'm not saying that to blame you, I'm telling you to prepare you, because the next time we legislate in here, and we're going to be upset by the islands in the bills! To understand what insularity is and how we feel, we feel first of all about exclusion. Geographical exclusion above all. You, who, here on land, take the car and go to one, two hours across the county or in a few hours' time, can't understand that to go to an island we may lose a week - and in good weather, not bad weather - most of our islands have a boat this week for transportation. And it's not just that we have a few ships, but they're expensive. We've got monopolies. It's impossible to travel to Piraeus if you don't have any money. All of this is determined by the policy pursued so far, ladies and gentlemen, of PASOK and of the New Democracy. Because you so far have us building our ports according to companies' ships. Do you know that there are ports that cannot be approached by the big ship of the company - a monopoly, because it wanted and demanded that we build a larger port so that it could approach? We want to build ships to get closer to our ports. This policy must be reversed. And we'll reverse it! And it's not just the coastline, it's the flight tickets that are expensive. We can't travel, we're closed. It is now - fortunately - that the divestment of airports must be stopped. They included both Rhodes and Kos. At least to catch up, because if their sale proceeds, it will be much worse. We're feeling another blockade. Our professionals feel blocked too. They are not the land businessmen who can take their car or their truck and go do a job from Larissa to Trikala or from Thessaloniki to Naoussa, etc. We're locked up on the island, just like our business. Competition is unequal. Because proposals and proposals have been heard here for HPAI, for insurance, especially for small businesses, I also have the following to say to the main ministers: it is all very well, and we understand why an appeal is being made and to pay for the last dose of HPAI. We must bear in mind, however, that there are too many companies who have not paid any dose of HISPIA. Very well you do and say that by the arrangements that are made they are facilitated to pay. However, in the next few days, as we are asking in the next week for people and businesses to regulate their debts, we also have to make it easier for the world, because if they do not pay a dose, they are losing regulation. Because they don't just have that dose, they have the dose of the insurance fund. We know and know that it is within our Government's proposals, but they must be speeded up, they must be done immediately, because our businesses - and those who want to pay - will not have to pay for these doses of HISPIA. This is like an appeal for business. Nor can you understand the insecurity that islanders feel in terms of health above all. It was wrong the vine, it went with the Memorandum: Dismissals, reductions, drugs we don't have, doctors we don't have. But look again, Ministers, please, these days, until we legislate until we take measures for our hospitals and for our health, people may die within these next two - three days. I'm sorry to say that. We need to see where there are no doctors. We can't wait when the doctors' recruitment system will be fixed. There are no pharmacists in our hospitals, and there are no drugs, not to tell you that we have complaints that in the last few days, immediately after the elections, there are transfers that are friendly. We were told here, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, where we will find the money and they are bombing us all the time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm sorry, if you'll excuse me a little longer, because the other islanders don't have a turn to speak and I kind of represent them. I'd like two or three more minutes. As far as air transport is concerned, do you know how much these airtransports from patients from the islands that do not have doctors and have no hospitals? Tens of millions for an island only! Imagine what we could do if we had that money to improve our hospitals and the health system. You cannot yet understand the suffering of bureaucracy. The Memorandum Policy has destroyed all our services. Transport from the islands, Lero from Kalymnos, left and went to Kos, Kos tax was downgraded. Can you imagine that the islander should do three and four days to go and get a tax information? You can't understand it. We're waiting for a solution. Our Prime Minister said we would strengthen the JEPs. This must be done immediately. You need to find solutions as quickly as possible. Emergency! We cannot wait for the overall reform, whether administrative or health or tax. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wanted to refer to one last area, because I do not have time for tourism and tourist development. There is Mrs Kundura here, and I would like her to hear it: be careful, all our islands are not the same. Each island has different speeds and different problems. Nor do these islands that are developed tourists have the same model. The other model is Santorini, Mykonos, Kos, Rhodes and no other model of other islands. In the large islands, Rhodes and Kos, saturation has occurred. Any addition of bed is a disaster. It now says not the act but also the studies that have been carried out for 15 years and which have been overcrowding in these areas. You, gentlemen of PASOK and of the New Democracy, continue to be a donor to the construction of new beds that are a disaster in the local economy. And on this point, I would ask the Ministers to stop the approval of subsidies these days. Not only will we earn money to channel them elsewhere, but we will save - to the extent that we can even save or start to reverse - the development model. I'm going to tell you a typical example. We have Kalymnos that is an important - second international - climbing center. We've got Kos, who's saturated and doesn't pick up any other hotels. There must be no single bed, as I told you before, and the need for us to turn to alternative tourism. A climbing, walking, religious, you know all that. What have you done? While Kalymnos is a climbing centre, you have approved for this year to take place across Kos on a beach, a hotel, which is a premium for the development of alternative climbing tourism to build a concrete climbing wall across from Kalymnos. That's your model. We will reverse this policy, this model. You have so far been working for the 'top' and we are working for the 'bottoms'. We'll get the tops down. I conclude with how we need to strengthen our Government that is currently going to be subject to this difficult negotiation. We should not wear her weights, neither with inhibitions, nor with reservations, nor with resentment, nor with resentment, which are heard - and here unfortunately - by a few people. But we have to give her wings. We must give her the strength to claim that "Here in Greece I have the House, I have the world out in the squares that are pushing me, I have a people who say "do not back"". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon. Mr Zuraris will be given the floor shortly, and then Mr Kara Yusuf will be here. Mr Mardas had asked for a brief speech. I would ask you to make the speech brief. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in my speech I mentioned an example of waste that was the Greek Foreign Trade Organisation and, more specifically, the new company 'ENTERPRISE GREECE'. I didn't answer immediately because I wanted to bring some evidence, because Mr. Metarakis answered me. Mr. Mitarakis pointed out in his answer that the rent for the new building is 320 thousand. I'll testify to the contract signed with Parliament's secretariat. On page seven, he notes: a monthly rent of 30,000 times 12, if I'm not mistaken in my mathematics, we're at 360,000. Put on the public as well - because he also stressed the audiences that are 3,000 - we reach 400,000. Mr. Mitarakis stressed that the building was not proprietary since the liquidation began, because it was transferred to the Ministry of Finance. I'm referring to the OPE building in Ilioupoli. It is not a condition to evacuate the building during any liquidation. She could've just stayed. In this particular case, it is clear from the case-law of the Court that the Court of Justice has no jurisdiction to rule on the interpretation of Article 85(1) of the Treaty. There is no mention of the Institute of Packaging. It notes that resources have been saved. Indeed, resources have been saved. However, this has been done by reducing the Agency's activities. If an organisation does not function and ceases to exist, you understand that there are no deficits at all. It is about reducing deficits and gains by increasing turnover and not by reducing turnover. Date of birth: (a) Approximately 1964, (b) 1964. By entering the organization's site and seeing the liquidator's report, which I will deposit, the Greek External Trade Organisation incorporated into the new company in 2013 had only three commercial missions, in 2014, according to the site there is only one commercial mission, so if in 2012 the Greek External Trade Organisation did not make sixty two commercial missions, sixty-six is unstable. He also noted that the building in Ilioupoli required a large number of costs for renovation and its structure was accurate. Let's remember that this building would be transferred to Ilioupoli's DU. So the taxpayers who were going in there were other indictments? Would they go into a building inappropriate, which should be abandoned by OPE employees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Zouraris of the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, my respects. Ladies and gentlemen, there is time for saying, there is time for conceiving, there is time for lying. Today for me it will be the time of praise, praise of praise for ilanderamy. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from far away. The collectors of the yolks of Thera come by me and are frozen by the north wind, the Myrrhodes with the golden reflection of the angels. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, because today, more than ever, these days, as always, will once and for all, rebuild the turf of the Brussels disobedients and that archival sergeant Aleman, which is why we must return to our way. What's our way? He: all the land and the sea shall be sabbath in the day daring forced here, the monuments of good ones, and the bad ones, which were gathered together. And because the disquietes and the other Alemans will come back again and as an archipelago serpent, we know that we will be associated, we will be assembled, we will confuse the adversary, I General, who has in her eyes the mosaic of Russianism. Of course, we have taught the world, we have always taught, done and done, and again and again that in this timely overtime, in this place, at the top of Homer and in the cradle of Olympus, we Olympians have taught here that it is becoming love. Yes, hers becomes love, love of freedom. And of course we know very well that we have started as we always do, for the past three thousand losers, but as losers we are the ones who will give back to this planet of humiliated planets and planets, our own state. What's our state of status? One by one: In these marble bad rusts it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr. Zurari. The President of PASOK, Mr Venizelos, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the greetings that start on Friday - in this spirit Mr Zouraris spoke earlier - and with my mind in the image of the Virgin Mary of Nicosia, which is located in Saint Mark in Venice, I would like to make a few brief remarks, having listened very carefully to the debate so far, but in particular by waiting for the last hours of the debate and the adjunctory of the Prime Minister for some of the answers that I have not received so far. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the last 40 years a debate has been held in the House on Programmatic Declarations at so many conflicting and contradictory levels. In relation to language and feelings, the first level is the enthusiasm and pride that touches the limit of nationalist outrage. The other level is the level of embarrassment and fear, which finds shelter where it can. I am impressed that the statements made by the President of the United States are very popular. The simplicity of the 'left United States against right-wing Europe' is prevailing. They are seeking refuge for government officials, to any sympathetic but unfortunately unauthorized statement abroad. In this respect, we have three different levels of programming commitments in themselves. The most impressive internationally are the continuous political and communication pirates of the Minister of Finance. The second level is the surprise and obsession of SYRIZA ministers and officials who appear as custodians of SYRIZA's programme consistency. And, of course, there is, the Prime Minister who, by his role, tries to appear unmoved inwards and compromised outwards. The most critical thing, however, is that we have different levels in relation to events. We have Programmatic Declarations here and we are called upon to vote for the proposal of confidence today in the Greek Parliament, but tomorrow we have a proposal for agreement or possibly disagreement with the partners and creditors in the Eurogroup. And the Greek position, the final, the pure, the official one, does not know it and the Greek Parliament is not required to approve it. We are talking about all the matter, vaguely and contradictoryly, tomorrow we have to say things specifically and binding, no one has said it, everything is done in the absence of the House. I said yesterday that between party costs due to proper withdrawal in relation to election announcements and national costs, due to mistaken obsession with strategic errors, the first is clearly preferable. But, ladies and gentlemen, the turn to avoid accidents on the way, not necessarily because of will - because yesterday I spoke about the traditional tactics of the Left - but because of ignorance, for technical reasons, and that is something very important. There are, of course, institutional standards and guarantees if we want to avoid these mistakes and one - the most basic - is to say between us, officially here in Parliament, since we are going to change a national strategy, which is what it is after all. The starting point is the answer to the question of what the mandate of the Greek people is really on which the government acts and must act. As far as I am concerned, the mandate of the people to be respected by the government is a negotiation, but not a break. The people's mandate is tough, but organized and essential, not improper and communication. The people's mandate is to improve and not to worsen the framework within which the country moves. The people's mandate is to stay in the euro and not to play marginal games with a huge risk. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the danger is not Grexit, the way out of the euro, the danger is an intermediate bad and extortional situation within the euro, which makes you humiliate and beg you out of the euro to get out of the euro. We have the experience of Cyprus, I do not want to talk about capital control, nor about forced recapitalisation of banks through deposits, which I believe none of this will happen, because there will be a right turn, even if there is a cry, as I said yesterday, 'attack', but there will be a retreat. I also feel that what I am saying now, the four points, is the common denominator of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. The common denominator of those who voted for SYRIZA and ANEL, but also those who voted for the opposition parties. All the citizens are represented by the government now and by those who voted for it and those who did not vote for it, and it must also respect all the citizens and those who did not vote for it and those who voted for it, believing that the country will not run the risk, rather than backwards. We've lived through a lot of things. Personally, I have very intense experiences in recent years since 2009. I have a sense of déjà vu, as my friend Mr Zuraris would say. We've seen all this before, I feel like we've been repeating scenes in 2009, in the first months of 2010. Again I hear it talk about a revolver, which was then on the table. Now he's at the head. Then the revolver was the International Monetary Fund, which some in Greece thought posed a threat and blackmail for Europe, while Germany and all the hard conservative governments wanted it. It wanted to do so at the expense of the Commission, because the Commission had not taken any preventive measures in relation to the crisis. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU.]] and then some people were looking outside - a European solution, like the Cypriots later, in Russia, which sent us back to Europe and the IMF, to China, which proved that, with friendly feelings, had only EUR 6 billion of Greek bonds in relation to the total debt. Now I hear and read that the United States can help. I think this is a huge mistake, a mistake which is doubled, because it is scenes that we have experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, we fully and frankly support you in the international negotiations. We say this clearly in all our contacts with the European socialist party and European socialist, socialist and labour parties, whether they are part of governments or opposed. We are not excited at the ease that the government is enthusiastic about making contacts with governments, even social-democratic, because we know what the terminology of diplomatic contacts is, what the main content of politics is. And we know that regardless of the good intentions, there are objectively limits to the correlation of forces and the state of the economy in each country. And, of course, there is no European Left outside the Socialist Party that can help because it does not participate in any government. We support you. As your opposition, we support you from the House. We proposed setting up the National Negotiation Team. But this national conflict has preconditions. And the minimum requirement is information, mutual respect, and understanding, if not agreement. We are not claiming an agreement with our positions. But an elementary understanding of the facts. And that's not happening. And it has not been done, while the country is going through an extremely precarious and critical phase, a phase whose results go beyond the limits of the mandate and legitimacy of any government. Even a government of newly elected, radical, even though heirous, not only because of the Independent Greeks, but also because of great internal disagreements, as shown in the debate. Let us see the summary of government positions. I am not going back to the question of debt, because I believe that the turn to this issue has already taken place. Even if rhetorically some SYRIZA strains resist. I believe that the declarations on unilateral actions have been permanently abandoned. The 2012 framework was accepted, which we achieved with labor and suffering and for which we were found, slandered, slandered. What the government claims are parametric changes which, as I have always said, constitute a haircut in terms of net present value. And that's what the government says now. I have heard from the Ministry of Finance that the solution is very simple: there will be a bond exchange, and that is the solution from September. Our proposal for parametric changes is much more comprehensive and much more radical. Second point. I have not received an answer, or rather I have received a silent answer, to the question of the current International Monetary Fund programme. What about it? Obviously, the government accepts it. Will he, however, ask for it to be converted into preventive, as planned, to take, either from there or from the market, depending on interest rates? With grief I saw an organised leak from the Treasury, that as a country we are asking for time by June - other leaks or locations are talking about August or September - and the outsides say it is an extension, we will call it a bridge program. Look, this place can't stand any cynicism, no such escapades. In my opinion, the fact that the government says that the previous government has requested an extension of the programme for only two months to make it difficult for the new government, while the government has to ask - the previous ones - for an extension for six months, or for one year for two and three years, so that there are no dilemmas and difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the German Government wanted Greece to enter a new programme, in a new memorandum, with a small loan of about 10 billion. Its second preference was a large six-month extension. Greece in the Memorandum, without a new loan, dependent, under control, on the troika. We requested the least possible technical extension because the programme ended on 31 December 2014. There is no new loan now. There are delayed doses. Now, if some people think we should stay, because the country should not take a step forward, okay, we disagree radically. So the country does not need to stay further in this situation. Whether you call it an extension or a bridge program. The country does not need to stay open, outside markets, much more without taking the remaining instalments of the favourable loan, but with dangerous overdependence from the European Central Bank through ELA, the Greek banks and lending through overdraft of interest stamps. This is dangerous to the public, to the banks, to the economy as a whole. How's the decommissioning going to be done? Where will liquidity be found for businesses, investment and employment? I close by saying that it was an objective and must remain - the completion of the programme and the fastest exit from the memorandum. The transition to the prudential credit line. There's no other regime. The abolition of the troika which is done automatically by the preventive credit line. Conversion of the International Monetary Fund programme into preventive. This opens the way for intervention in debt, as planned by '12, for a new sustainability study, so for a new macroeconomic framework, as planned. To reduce the primary deficits pursued - the right objective, it has always been that - at an appropriate level of growth and employment and social cohesion measures. There is no other framework better and safer. The bridge is narrow, insecure and miniature, like Mr. Kammenos's train. Of course, if we ask for time because we don't know what else to do, it's all right time, but time without content. Of course, there will always be political negotiation conditions. The troika works technically. But here I heard Mr Varoufakis' other astonishment: 'we accept 70% of the memorandum'. Who? What are the outstanding issues? If the issues are pending, the red lines are much more than 30%. The red lines are 70%. So keep the red lines ours, or we would have closed the negotiation. Bring something more than nothing less. I am addressing Mr Tsipras, personally as Prime Minister, as a man who, at a new age, took over the helm of the country. All this means that it is time for truth and time for responsibility. And now there are no escapades, now there are difficult decisions. Watch hard, not fatal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u250	Thank you to the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group. The Minister for Finance, Mr Yanis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u251	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u252	I've given the floor to the Minister. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Mitarakis, right after. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not time for celebrations, lionisms or classifications, when so much is at stake because - and I say this with knowledge - the indiscretion of some of our partners and some technocrats, who, in their wisdom, consider that it is preferable to play games with the European institutions than to give our Government the only thing we ask of the principle that we have chosen, which is a few weeks of peace, so that we can table our proposals in consultation with our partners. Although it is not a time for celebrations, I will say something without a formal mood and say it because I believe it. With the vote of confidence today, the memorial period of the country begins, it is officially inaugurating the return of dignity that has made our compatriots in all the villages and cities smile without a trace of nationalism. The critical moments, however, require clear words and a clean mind. What do I mean when I talk about the end of the memorandum to be clear? I'll at least tell you what I mean. Allow me, because the inaccuracies undermine the national effort we are making - and that we will do from tomorrow in Brussels - to be precise, which I would recommend to everyone and to everyone. I would like to assure you that there is no doubt that the disagreement 'feeds' and strengthens democracy, but not the distortion of the other point of view. The Memorandum for us is very simple. It was that combination of new loans that accumulated on already non-viable loans and private debts, provided that incomes were reduced, of which the old and the new loans had to be repaid. That was the Memorandum. Before 2010, the country's Gross National Product grew - I think we all agree on it - through unsustainable lending. We had a classic case of pyramid growth and not of the country's serious development. After 2010, when this bubble exploded, we entered a period of great austerity, which is the most normal when you have the digging of a bubble. Unfortunately, however, that period after 2010 was again characterised by unsustainable lending. We have passed from the classic case of pyramid growth to a unique case of pyramid austerity, austerity for many, on the basis of huge non-viable loans, which benefit the very few, plunging society into a feedbacked darkness, which has attracted almost all, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen and even industrialists. This is the Memorandum that was born in 2010 and which remains philosophically, macro-economically toxic and the skeleton, the base of the program, which is "run" and "run" until our election. It is the pyramid austerity that has imposed and kept periodic visits by the troika of the embedded technocrats of three important institutions, to which we are and will belong, and to which we will cooperate, but not on the basis of the guarding and enforcement by a group of technocrats that send to our country, with colonial features, of this pyramid austerity. Question: How much percentage do we accept of the Memorandum? Exactly 0%! We will not accept a single condition that reinforces the vulnerability of the crisis, which increases the rate of debt, further reductions in remuneration, new taxes on those already exhausted by taxation. We will not tolerate a single line, not a single word, nor one of the red lines mentioned by Mr Venizelos, which strengthen the refusal of reality and sacrifice Greeks of the most powerful without cause. We will not give in to the fraudulent error that deregulation of the labour market is a reform. Ladies and gentlemen, the memorandum, the pyramid austerity, the loans that fuelled it under the condition of an increasing shrinking of our society, is over. This, of course, does not mean that the loan agreement with our partners is over. But to stop this loan agreement being toxic, a new agreement is needed between us and our partners. We were elected to negotiate. What should we negotiate? A new deal. I think it is funny that we are being criticised for the fact that we are negotiating and that we want a bridge between the old agreement, the monumental, toxic to us, and the new agreement, which we hope will not be toxic. That means negotiating: mutual efforts, bridge to a new agreement. I have heard in this Chamber and just now, but also before, admonitions from representatives of the previous government, now counter-population, negotiate, and that we have your support, but undertake that we will never go to the rupture. Ladies and gentlemen, do you realize the acid shape here? If you're not willing to contemplate the break, you don't negotiate. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If you declare on the other hand on the opposite side that one, two, three days will pass, you will be closed in these dark and unpleasant Brussels halls, but at the last minute what they will give you, whatever you will accept, what do you expect in this negotiation? We're gonna waste our time by the last minute. The rival side will formulate its ultimatum and we, having already stated first of all that we will accept it, because we have never thought of the possibility of saying 'no' at the end, will simply accept it. We better sit here, organize our ministries, stay with our families and send us by e-mail their decision for us, as was the case five years ago. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we returned the smile to the faces of the Greeks. Because we've come up with the break, not because we're pursuing it. We'll do anything to prevent her, but you don't negotiate if you've ruled out her. We have escaped from fear so that there is no break, so that because we can understand it against the demand for humiliation, there will be a new really good agreement, not just for us, but also for the average European citizen. As I said - I will say it once again - we will do what is humanly possible to avoid a break, but we will not refuse to think about it. Because if we refuse to think about it, just once again, the austerity to which I have referred, will accelerate, deepen, shrink Greece and eventually contribute to depreciating the European idea not only here but in all the countries of Europe. I can assure you that when we walk in the streets of the European capitals we see people, even those who do not agree with our position, that they feel that something is changing in Europe and that, at last, Europe will begin to treat itself as it fits. Our own tactics, ladies and gentlemen, will be to come with reasonable, sound proposals. We're not going in a tactical mood. Although I've spent many years of my life with the toy theory, I assure you I won't apply it. The toy theory is about toys. You don't play with the future of Greece. You don't play with Europe's future. Without bluffs, without spins, this will be our "single" tactic. We are proposing a bridge from the deadlock disastrous memorandum to a mutually beneficial contract with Europe. To convince them, we have no controversy, no dogmatism, to keep whatever the parties to the previous agreements, any parts of the Memorandum do not threaten to infect the new era, the new agreement with the Memorandum. For example, why reject the commitment to reform the tax code - we have no reason to do so, just because it is part of the MoU list? - or the commitment to redefining the concept of tax evasion? We want to do that. 70% of this'sycholic sheet', paper, catalogue, which accompanied the memorial logic of pyramid austerity, is either insignificant or independent of the Memorandum logic. Repeat: How much percentage of the memorandum do we accept? We accept 0%, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u254	But the measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u255	How much are we accepting measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u256	The'sex sheet' we want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u257	Your red lines are ours. And we have more. But, overall, if we get a line to line and quantification, about 30% is the toxic, memorial piece, which we will reject. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is the first to come up to the Eurogroup, not by a foretaste. I want to close - because I do not want to tire you today - and say that I understand the touching effort of those who have not been able to understand the rupture with the Memorandum, to call us a Memorandum of Memorandum, to say that because we have accepted the Memorandum of Memorandum of Memorandum of Understanding, in order to convince our partners, we are also Memorandums. Instead of putting their submission on us in the memorandum, I would ask them, I would advise them - since you also advise us, will you allow me to advise you - on this: why don't you join forces with us? How? Instead of giving us advice, we should state first of all that we will accept what our creditors are asking us, perhaps you could urge us not to think about turning from Brussels without an honest commemorative agreement with Europe. Help, support our negotiating power by speaking to your counterparts in Europe and telling them that what the Greek Government is asking for, the possibility of consulting on the basis of logic and of the common European interest, is essential to try to restore the European idea. But whatever you choose, you know that this government will stand up, it will be worthy of the expectations of the whole country and it will promote the interest of the average European citizen, who our memoranda have undermined so brutally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u259	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u260	Mr Mitaraki, I will give you the floor after the floor because the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas, has asked for the floor. Mr President, the time of dentistry is normally half the prototype, which is in theory eight minutes. How much will you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u261	About fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u262	I would just ask you - although for the Members of Parliament it is clear that there is tolerance - that we should all make an effort to speak to the next Members and to the Ministers, but not to self-determination in any way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u263	I'll try it, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been clear these days that you are going for a new contract with the partners through a technical extension of the memorandum for a semester - as is your proposal - on condition that it is a bridge programme. You have also confirmed this today by admitting that the tough negotiation and break-up of the agreement is essentially a negotiable one. Name it, as you wish. Our people are not interested in how you say the new memorandum, whether it will be called 'convention' or 'programming', because at the moment most of them remain in force, 70% - I do not know exactly how you identify it - the Memorandum of Memorandum Measures and the rest of you are actually proposing to cover it with other equivalent structural measures based on the OECD, i.e. - I do not know - either its toolbox or its infamous reforms, so that we can come to an agreement. However, these are reforms that are translated into a crushing of other privileges - those that have left, in any case, the opening up of closed professions, which the self-employed professional craftsmen, traders, scientists, liberals - and also the speeding up of the implementation of privatisations, as well as those which are called at the same time as evaluations of teachers and institutions, public assessments of new tax mechanisms and tax controls, but not on the large capital that knows exactly how to avoid, but above all on the average incomes, wages and self-employed. Our people must not be confused with the great words about the end of austerity. Let us all think that today against supposedly austerity, all the main international capitalist organizations have spoken, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the OECD, the World Bank. All of these, really, do you think they're being cut off for the good of the Greek people? Who are you kidding? Your own self to give them courage? In the Prime Minister's speech yesterday, references to pride, to the dignity of our people. The problem, of course, is not in itself the references. The problem is that you want with these reports to cover up and hide credentials in the European Union, in its rules, in your compromise with poverty, in the crumbs that you promise - and, in fact, in a people who have already lost everything. Because crumbs are a retirement year, i.e. more than 1 euro per day, crumbs are feeding coupons, crumbs are a little free current - barely for the water heater - even though. Is that what the SYRIZA government is costing dignity? Our people, in fact, were proud and dignified when they fought for their modern rights, when they did not agree with poverty, exploitation, when they conflicted with local and foreign powers. So it goes too much for the government to want this story to be cornered into announcements that are not relief, not giving the people all that they have lost, not part of them. Every time they will make him measure his needs on the basis of what the capital economy can do and what the European Union's rules allow. We will not compromise with hunger, poverty, tolerance. We will not endure and give the battle so that every people's family, with a high head, with real dignity, battle and optimism, will not bend to the trials. And let them do not understand exactly what we are saying these days by different Members of the ruling party who go up to this Step here. We will not tolerate the tricks that are being done to confuse our people again. Because it is another thing to fight against impoverishment for the unemployed, to put an end to poverty and unemployment, and to promise that you will only relieve extreme poverty and a four-year programme. The first is polemic, and the second means accepting poverty. This is the absolute compromise with the incompetence, confessing that you will not solve the urgent issues of the survival of our people's working class. Ladies and gentlemen, many in here are even talking on behalf of the Left, addressing both the JRC and the left-wing radical people in our country, even though the Left, those who fell on the towers, in the battlefields, were executed, imprisoned, persecuted, struggled, fought in stone years of the struggles of the ESM, ELAS, ENON, the Democratic Army, 1-1-4, the anti-digital struggle later, the post-multiple struggle, that is, the generations totalling "Outside NATO and the United States", the 'EEC and NATO the same trade union", the socialisation of large enterprises, all and they have not authorized any of us here to speak on their behalf. Nor, of course, expired passports are valid. In fact, can the flag - since several of them - of EASA, of EPPON, of the Democratic Army next to the flag of NATO, of which SYRIZA and his government lift it up, of NATO that throws us into the vortex of imperialist antagonisms, of warfare, of the Bermuda triangle, which some others have said, namely Ukraine - Syria - Libya, as the previous ministers say, from this step? Can the flag of the class struggles of our people enter under the flag of the European Union of monopolies and memoranda? Can the values, the ideals for a world better, without man-to-man exploitation, allow our people to smash anyone and from the Step here in this House? Rhetorically, the questions, because they are in mind, are at the heart, but they are mainly expressed in the programmes, in the positions of the parties, and of course are addressed to those who have tried to learn history, theory and Marxism - lennism in the Communist Party of Greece from this step. However, let us know them well, so let us look at a few more specific things - so that I do not eat time - today and today - really, they must employ everyone and all, even those who have radical concerns about the future of our people's movement. Really, who is the link today to unfolding the reconstruction of the movement of our people, a great rebellious popular alliance of radical change, of overthrow, of which some are slashed into words? I want to talk about the real movement and the struggles of the people of work, within the ghettos, where they work, with these working conditions and the enormous and escalating problems, to those we have encountered in the struggles in previous years. What should be the attitude of radicals, of the left? Do what is said and generally proposed by various ministers or other members of the government, the SYRIZA party or the Independent Greeks? So is the link against the Memorandum in general over the years, which has even been overtaken today by an article? Is that the haircut - which also went for a walk - or the lengthening of the debt? Is it the expansion of state intervention, which they propose? Is it the exit from the crisis with the recovery of capitalist profitability, with the "good" so-called capitalists in front of and not the "experts", as SYRIZA told them these years? Is the solution link between the Kenyan management proposed by some here? Is cooperation a link with some parts of the bourgeoisie class? If we catch it from the outset, from the very beginning, from the fact that the crisis is not recognised as a crisis of capitalist overproduction, of over-accumulation of funds, we understand where this is going. And not only that, but you consider it to be a crisis of mismanagement of the State's revenues, that the Greek people have spent much, more of the revenues, and that is why individual or public borrowing was required. Hence the Cayenne mentioned by the Minister of Finance or the incomprehensible life that is to blame, as is the case for the people's families, the unemployed, the self-employed, the workers of the private and public sectors, and much more we would call them truly fragile if it were not tragic about what measures they are preparing for our people, for our youth. Or that it is the fault of tax evasion, exclusively, or party rupturetology or charismatic benefits to some business friends. Those who speak only of thieves and corrupt ones, of steadfastness, of 'good' and 'bad' entrepreneurs, of stranding, are doing so only - we say - to get rid of any commitments they made to the people, of their voters, of the fact that they would allegedly take action against the large monopolistic groups. They have always done the same, alternately, for the two-party partners that we have met and now new bipolarism. A link to overall change can only be a constant struggle to get out of the crisis for the benefit of the people, but in a break with the policy of monopolies, their state, their system, with working order as a pioneering force, with the popular alliance of all workers, farmers, self-employed, strong in a clear direction. There you do not allegedly "wonderful" compromises with wolf alliances, but you make necessary compromises within the popular movement, within the social alliance, so that the workers agree with the small professional craftsmen and merchants, with farmers, namely the majority of our people and not the minority of the oligarchy - to use your favourite word lately. And to explain: The slogans of Programming Declarations to interrupt the sale of public property cannot hide who you commit your Government will serve. You announced that you would support major private investors in so far as they respect environmental and labour legislation and the framework of European rules, that is, the current European Union legislative framework. What different, really, did previous governments say? Who is serving the European Union's current framework? It serves competitiveness, the profitability of groups at the expense of social needs in all Member States of the European Union. The people will pay again, in order to support the investments of the groups, which will "wash out" the workers, to increase their profits and bring the cost of labour to an increasing level, as they call it. You announced that the networks and infrastructure will remain public. However, this is not a reversal, nor is it reversed by the Community's policy of privatisation and liberalisation of areas of strategic importance. For example, electricity generation groups want the transmission network to remain State-owned, so that the PPC group does not have a comparative advantage in competition with the rest of the groups. In fact you accept the current partial or total privatization of DESFA, OTE, PPC, ELPE, hydrocarbons deposits and are discussing only the ways and methods, if we will, for example, have a concession contract instead of for sale in the port infrastructure of Piraeus. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for our people to come out of today's swamp of insecurity, exploitation, unemployment, to have a truly decent and proud life, he must organise his counter-reaction in order to finally overthrow his true opponent, the monopolistic groups that hold the keys to the economy. Only then will it truly dawn a new era in our country, where production, the economy will be designed centrally, scientifically, based on popular needs. Only then will the working class, our people, determine its future, since it will have power itself. He'll be at the wheel of this power. Those who are naive in this House still believe that with their policy they are creating or may create cracks in the international establishment, let them think about the JRC's view, to see that they are being used in this whole international establishment as pawns. The conflict between the'medicalists' and the 'ombamists' is not about the interests of the people. No one can and must not feel proud when simply choosing the way and time to slaughter their rights. We say it again: The trade in hopes stirs it up and has little to do with a trade of fear. And it's still the beginning. We can think of what they have to see in the next period. The people will not wait around the corner to fail or anything else, not to wait on their couch, but neither will they be applauded in various parades of government policies and choices. He must now organize his wrestling, draw up a line of struggle under his own flags and not under foreign flags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u264	Thank you to the President of the Communist Party Parliamentary Group. The Minister of State has the floor, Mr Alekos Flamouraris, and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u265	Madam President, I have asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Metarakis, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u267	Madam President, you told me after Mr. Koutsuba.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u268	Mr Metarakis, the Ministers, the chairmen of Parliamentary Groups and the Parliamentary Representatives presided over under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u269	Even when it's personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u270	It is because it has grown personal in time that I was not in the Chamber, that I intend to give you the floor, and I will give you the floor. I give you my word and you've really seen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u271	It was Mr. Balafas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u272	I'll give you the floor later. The Minister of State, Mr Flamouraris, has the floor. Minister, I will give you ten minutes to make an attempt to make self-restriction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u273	I would be very happy, Madam President, to speak to other colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like two words on competence. I may bring you back to a different position, but I am obliged to refer to the responsibilities of the full Ministry for Monitoring the Government's work. So far, there has been a General Secretariat, which was mentioned yesterday by the State Secretary Terrence Quik. Above all, I would like to tell you that the content and work of this Secretariat - although the headline and title were the Coordinating of the Governmental Work - was nothing but to formulate and produce or give foreign companies, essentially through the Prime Minister, the proposals put forward by the Troika for the formation of a different public sector, essentially to reduce, to a large extent, the function and content of it and its employees. So we are going to try to change it, gain its essential role, and we are calling on the Members and parties who wish or want to contribute to the coordination, so that the government's work can be achieved as best as possible, and we are telling them that they are welcome, both with proposals and with participation. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA does not forget his election commitments, which were that and self-reliance to take, we and the people want to participate and be with us and the political forces that are at the disposal of us and we want them to contribute to this effort. So how this Ministry is to be formulated and with what proposals, we who have responsibility, will think, suggest and inform you, waiting for your proposals as well. Now, in this particular debate. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I have unfortunately not been charged with much of the interventions of the opposition parties, and I have nothing to say, which will help to make the programming proposal more substantial, more effective and more feasible. Unfortunately they have been heard either with regard to the content or with regard to it, and in that sense I will try very briefly in the seven minutes left, to describe in lines, which are concise what we are looking for. Ladies and gentlemen, is there really a different proposal on how to deal today with the hundreds of thousands of our fellow people, who have no food, have no heating, cannot be moved to work? Has a proposal been heard here about how we are going to deal with this situation today? Because we do not believe that this will be for both time and time for both the four years and the eight years. Because our efforts are through the proposals that we make, through the country's productive and ecological reconstruction, this world every day is reduced. However, until this situation is resolved, should we not take measures which will enable them to live? Ladies and gentlemen, if there are any opinions, which say that this is not a solution and they do not propose another, in my opinion, they must come out and say clearly that you need to get this back. I would also like to address friends from Potami who have asked 'where are you asking for the co-responsibility'? On this issue we are calling for a coexistence of forces that want to be involved in dealing with this problem. At the same time, through our programme, the so-called Thessaloniki, which is crucial and essential, we were talking about three other actions related to red loans, the tax-pays and the funds, with the relaunch of the economy. These measures have an internal cohesion, not just measures to tackle the humanitarian crisis. There are measures at the same time, as you have been analysed by the relevant ministers, which contribute to a certain degree to the relaunch of the economy. For example, when we say that pensions will be granted up to EUR 700 a tenth Tuesday and that they will be given as a Christmas gift - which is about EUR 450 million - this will be put into the market. There will be revenues back in the national economy. The other actions to which we have referred have an impact also on the humanitarian crisis, but also on the national economy. Therefore, by completing this area, I repeat that combining these actions can actually face the crisis and, secondly, also contribute to the relaunch of the economy. Is that enough? Oh, no. It's not enough. That is why we are also proposing the country's productive reconstruction. We have chosen six areas, which we consider to be privileged for the Greek economy, which are areas of stress of work. Because that's what we're interested in. We are not only interested in growth, which will not increase or have jobs. We're mostly interested in that. Many have been mentioned and said that we are not talking about the development of the economy, about production, which must move on to Greece, which has been substantially weakened. For example, we are talking about the tourism sector, with the aim of the tourism sector not being 22 million, 24 million alone, but of trying through one and quality development to have more days of tourist stay, to have a longer period of tourist season, to have a connection of the productive potential that Greece has with tourism, so that we can have a set of positive effects through this. For example, if we go to the first sector, the agri-food sector, we really have to proceed directly to the recording of the public, the church, the municipal rural land, so that through the social economy, through cooperative schemes - socially, we can really, with the help and the contribution of the public sector, develop the productive sector to a large extent, so that we can achieve what we say from the field on the shelf. For example, in the area of construction, which is labour-intensive, we do not have the logic of starting again to build apartments and apartments. There's a lot of them. However, we are aware that we must move on to the keepers, record the slow industries, see the buildings that are falling apart. Because, as the Minister responsible has said, for example, we have 30 000 apartments to cover for the needs of the unemployed. All this has to go ahead. I conclude, since the time has arrived. I want to say two words in relation to the issue at issue. Three things I'm going to say and I'm going to finish. Firstly, we did not leave the logic of reducing, reducing, dismantling, dismantling the public debt. We keep saying that. We never said we'd do one-way energy. We said we want his impairment. We also said that through its restructuring and repayment with a growth clause we will also be able to finance productive reconstruction. Secondly, we have never said so, and we have never said so today, as the Minister of Finance and the other ministers and the President of the Government said yesterday, and there is no way of accepting memos which reduce the incomes of either welfare or pensions. There is no possibility of accepting memos and programs that sell - not exploit as we say - public property. Thirdly, we cannot accept any memos which have dismantled labour relations in any way. In fact, we aim to restore employment relations at least where they were before. I'm ending up with friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen. What the Greek people have voted for is this programme that SYRIZA, its president, executives, members of government and MPs have been analyzing you for two days now. Let us not think that something different has been voted on by the people. The Memorandum on the 25th of the month is over. The Greek people know and we know that in this life nothing enjoys, everything is conquered through mass mobilisations, with the participation of a people, who are aware of both their responsibilities and their potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the '1974- The restoration of democracy' programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st New Ionia Magnesia High School (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, in order to schedule your speeches by the honourable Members and the honourable Members and by the ladies and gentlemen, I will immediately give the floor to Members and Ministers with rotation. I would ask everyone to start limiting their time at least twice, so that we can all talk. I call on the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppa. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u275	I note the separation of the House, which has been so much talk about, with its new composition. The corners of the Golden Dawn are on the right end. For those seated, of course, the picture is completely different. The 'left' and 'right' have something to do with what position you see. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the Left and the Right, whatever side of the House, the actions are counting. Politics is not produced with obsessed and duxious reason but with political bravery. This House is neither left nor right. It's a House of all Greeks. It is the parliament that was elected to serve the Greek people. The people themselves chose us to serve him from both sides. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the People's Association - Golden Dawn believe that the memorandum does not serve the Greek people. The memorial is an ethic. We are struggling for home and freedom, respecting constitutional rules, and according to the people's mandate, as a third political force now, we will be in this Parliament the national opposition. We firmly support the position we have again stressed from this step. The parties divide, the country joins. As a parliamentary representative, in the summer of 2012 he visited the previous President of the Parliament to congratulate him on his election. I told him then that we went down to the political constituencies to claim our parliamentary representation, and I also told him that we lack experience of the precise functions of the institution but we will play honestly in the political game. Now we have the experience of how dirty this game is many times. The government that comes back bears heavy responsibility for the abolition of the Constitution with its anti-linguistic, memorial work. He violated the institutions, as was seen in the case of the political persecution of the Members of the Golden Dawn. Madam President, the phenomena of the institutions must be stopped. The position of the Golden Dawn and in this parliamentary term will be responsible and consistent. Our group will support many of your future initiatives and actions, such as those announced in the speech on taking up your duties. To be clearer. We will work for ourselves so that this Parliament can become what it must be, an expression of the will of all Greeks and political forces as the sovereign people have chosen. We will stand against any anti-popular and anti-democratic policy, as expressed by the previous government, the rule of xenophobia, xenophobia and the divestment of our country. We will work to re-examine the political speech, this regulated constitutional right, a point of controversy and a joint composition, to express the three hundred eighty-eighty-four thousand fourscore-seven Greek citizens who supported the Golden Dawn, the third political force of the country and our fighting and sometimes burning political reason not to be the only evidence of criminal persecution. The political reason inside and outside Parliament, and indeed the reason why elected representatives of the nation, in no case and in no political power, not only for the Golden Dawn, should ever be part of the litigation by serving a bourgeois political feasibility. The institution of justice must regain the respect and trust of the Greek people. Your first concern, then, is to be cleared of the outrageous circuit set up by the previous government. Historical cleansing in justice, so that she will once again gain her authority, a prestige which as one of the main pillars of the Hellenic Republic. We shall again stand firm and supporters of claiming German mortgages and military allowances. The speaker was the first to raise this issue on a detailed basis, as a Member, at a press conference within Parliament in June 2012. We made contributions to this issue both to the Greek Parliament and to the European Parliament. Especially for the forced mortgage loan, which currently amounts to more than EUR 500 billion, we had had talks, had conducted interviews, we had often put our views through our publications and our website. This, moreover, is also included in our January 2015 programme, on the basis of which we received the mandate from the Greek people. I give it to you for the Minutes, for whoever's interested. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Greece now has a new and old Prime Minister. Mr. Tsipras succeeds in a fearful prime minister. The designation "phobic" is not mine. He's Takis Baltakou in his revealing dialog with Elias Kasidiaris. The Baltaku case, which the previous government has attempted to cover up by closing off the House in the summer, is well known, as you have denounced, Madam President. I would remind you of part of the dialogue: Caucasian: "Who told him to do this?" And he means the illegal persecution and the confessed personal involvement of Samara and his ministers, who intervened in the work of justice. Baltakos: “First of all, he is afraid of himself. Then you cut him off from having a head start by Tsipra." Caucasian: “And because we cut him off votes, that is, he will put us in jail?” Baltakos: "The f..." Incredible thing! Unbelievable!" But Baltakos said it again, and otherwise. In November 2012, in this Chamber, the President of our parliamentary group, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, had said among other things, speaking of the 2013 budget - was critical and then the moments - the following. Nikolaos Michaelakos referred to Noam Chomsky's views and said that if the funds are allowed to move from one country to another, one day will come when economic organizations and investors will actually be able to define the policy of the states. He continued: “Many speakers have said it that if Greece comes out of the Eurozone, the world economy will be hit by the huge sum of 17 trillions of 200 billion euros. How can that stand the logic? Greece is the 2% of the European economy and perhaps one percent of the world economy. The answer is very simple. Because all these funds are a "fuss" - they have nothing to do with the real economy - and this "fuss" Greece, if it wants,'holds the pin to break it'. However, this powerful weapon that we have in our hands does not use and economically enslave our people." In those days, therefore, I have transferred to Mr Baltako the meaning of the words of Mr Michaloliakos. “Yes...” he said, “...I know. We told him that too." So I asked him: 'Why not, since he has this powerful weapon in his hands?' Answer: 'Afraid'. ‘What is he afraid of?’ I'm telling him. "They have issues" he told me and mentioned the lack of courage, etc. 'Tursue'. This courage is needed by the new Prime Minister, the courage and honesty to respect the mandate he has given for denouncing the memorandum and deleting the larger part of the debt. That's why it was voted. That expectation expressed. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, has many weapons in his policy of patronage if he truly wants to carry out the desires of the people. It does not only have the votes of SYRIZA, 36,34%, it also has 6,28% of the Golden Dawn, and 5,47% of the Communist Party, 4,75% of the ANELs, has 52,84% and a majority of ninety-four MPs. Prime Minister, you and your MPs have said in an election that the memorandum will be abolished by an article. This would be your first bill, the new government, "for the first time on the Left". Or will it always be his multitude of betrayal Greek people? You said the day before yesterday that the people can no longer be disappointed. A few days after your election, you are already talking about 'integrated compromise'. With your programme statements of these days you have disappointed this people. The complaint of the memorandum was converted into a ‘agreement’, a ‘bridge’ and a ‘mutually beneficial contract’, a rejection of the memorandum in instalments. Bring SYRIZA's gentlemen, this article, which you promised in an election, to vote for it, to count and to show clearly who are on the side of the people and who are on the side of the loan sharks, the foreign occupation and the misery, the misery of our people. If Mr Varoufakis has nothing to say about his Memorandum and destruction, as SYRIZA pro-electionally argued, if it is all the fault of this 'bad' Golden Dawn, if the Golden Dawn is to blame for the hunger, for the misfortune, for the thousands of suicides, for the humanitarian crisis and for all that the Memorandum has brought, if the new co-pilots are tossing the flag of fear of the rise of the Golden Dawn to their European interlocutors, then we are very pleased that even with this humiliated perception the Golden Dawn will help and provide the abolition of the memorandum. It is, though, isn't it? You must not, Prime Minister, betray the people. Fear, that is, respect for God may not feel him, and it is your right. Man's freedom is recognized by itself our Orthodox religion. The wrath of the people, however, cannot be ignored. For as long as the time goes, the way it goes, the way it goes, the way it goes, the way you have the opportunity to regain national sovereignty and the pursuit of national independence. You should not repeat the May 2012 story. And then the majority of the Greek people had given an order for the end of the memorandum. In Parliament, we had an anti-monetary force of one hundred and fifty seats in the whole, and then counted on the Left of DMAR before its Memorandum. The proposal of her Golden She was specific. To form a special-purpose government, a special-purpose government, with the sole purpose of voting for this article, the law abolishing the Memorandum. You didn't hear us then and you didn't hear us trapped in the ideas of your early left-wing times, which led some of today's co-pilots to essay off-site and political time pictures about'snake eggs', 'Baimaris' and all that. In doing so, however, their parties have been co-responsible for the further two and a half years. So to hit the danger - as you say - of the Golden Dawn - we say "the power of truth, honesty and philosophy" - you have taken the place collaboratively into the repetitive elections in June 2012. Then, as with the political terrorism of the New Democracy, you thought, with the new white terrorism, that you would hurt us nationalists. But the Golden Dawn has endured and - to the disappointment of our political opponents - is able to withstand and withstand, for the sake of our country and the people. Because God and the people are with us, truth and righteousness are with us. The fearful right - and I am not talking about the mere unreasonable voters but about the political expressions of the New Democracy wishing for the failure of the current government and the destruction of the place, in order to return to things again - will put forward and put forward their well-known dilemmas, the cheap policy of terror, 'but we will leave the Eurozone, leave the European Union, fail'. Aren't they the ones who said we went bankrupt in 2012? It is now coming with the obsessions of the German-Shenite with the euro. All of you at once let the famous Grexit be our problem, not ours, be a problem of the "earths" of capitalism, banks and loan sharks. It's their problem. Our participation in the European Union in the way it has been implemented is destroying our country. It destroyed agriculture, livestock, national production, destroyed small, medium-sized enterprises. It is this policy that sends the young Greeks to the hostel. This European Union is facing us as a region and not as a sovereign state. She's the one who wants us here and not equal allies. It is the one who has broken our national production and made Greece a country of the unemployed. It is the union that governs Greece by e-mail of foreign technocrats who have nothing to do with Greek popular sovereignty. This European Union should be missing. In the matter of citizenship, the Council of State has already expressed its deep regret. We are also opposed to the violent alteration of society by the Hellenization of thousands of people of different origin, religion and culture that undermines national homogeneity and social peace. Nor did we hear the government mention the Greeks of Northern Epirus and our Pontius brothers, the ones that the previous government so brutally hit with its policies. The Golden Dawn seeks to unite Hellenism, the unsolved and subdono Hellenism and the Hellenism of the Diaspora, our relatives. In the programming statements, the Prime Minister did not refer to culture. For us Greek nationalists, the main component of Greekity is our culture and that is why it is our priority to develop and protect our cultural heritage and art. With regard to our national issues - and I am ending - SYRIZA and Civic Opposition, New Democracy have an expression of the tradition of the name 'Macedonia'. You mentioned your programming statements, Prime Minister, that you agree, like the previous government, to the surrender of the name "Macedonia", to the tradition of our name in the neighbouring state of Skopje and thus continue the same unequivocal, dangerous and against our national interests politics. It was, and will be, a compromise for our Macedonia. You similarly affect our nation with your policy with regard to the Aegean and the brother state of Cyprus. It is a state that is part of the same nation. You spoke of bicommunal, bizonal Cyprus with one administration and one citizenship. This is how you identify the toughest American policy with regard to the Cyprus issue. You are basically matched with Attila. And that, Prime Minister, you say a few days after you had visited the prisoner's messages in Nicosia, where the martyr heroes of George Greva Digenis are buried. Cypriots are Greeks in the genus. No change, therefore, of the history of the Greekism of Cyprus cannot be accepted. We are not simply saying that we do not agree, as the government's far-right alibi will say about the eyes of the world will probably support its anti-national choices. We say that the entire Greek people should say no to this dangerous policy, say not with the sole aim and vision of achieving the well-being for us of national independence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. This national objective must also be active in the participation of the Church, a Church which, by the manager of a property, we want once again to become the honored rasso of Hellenic Orthodoxy, as expressed in modern times by the archbishop Christodoulou. For this reason, I call upon this Step by the militants who have left behind, to stand a barrier to the iso-destructive plans of the internationalists of all colors, offering their spiritual strength to the struggle of national salvation. National salvation must be the goal of all of us. So, gentlemen of the government, abandon real policy. This real policy split up and destroyed the place. So the Golden Dawn chooses the path of freedom and says no to every memorial and any variations it makes. The Memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, is the end of the national state. It is the conversion of our people into a mass of hungry consumers, a flexible minced meat. The people voted last January by turning the back on all the false dilemmas that the previous government unleashed. So you have no reason, gentlemen of the new government, with such strong and fresh people's mandate, to retreat on the pretext of so-called political realism. The people voted for the break with so-called allies and certified lenders. At the same time, the Greek people voted for the Golden Dawn, with the slogan "First Greeks!" "The Greeks in power! Thieves in prison!'. We therefore expect the announcement of the SYRIZA and the announcement of the Vice-President of Mr Drasakis to denounce the parties involved, which the Golden Dawn and the previous parliamentary term have consistently done. We doubt, of course, whether that will be the case. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, I address you. The Greek people have decided that the euro is not the god. Do not, then, consider this Mamona, this lever of German sovereignty on our continent, but also in Greece. We say at this step that the Group of the People's League - Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group will support every move in response to the humanitarian crisis affecting the Greek people. We will control the government, but we will also support all these black-rooted politicians in politics who call themselves the "watch, Shoeble". The returning Prime Minister, Samaras, said recently in paraphrasing the words of Cyprus' late leader Tassos Papadopoulos: "We have received chaos and delivered a country". No, Mr. Samaras! You received chaos and led us to hell. That's the truth. That truth was raised by the people in their vote on 25 January. Are you questioning him? Are you questioning the Greek people? Mr Samaras, has your archemania led you and led you to such wrong policies not only for your resignation but also for the country? Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Golden Dawn selects the path of national resistance in a country where everything is lost, where production, public and private property is lost, and above all, human resources are lost, and unfortunately whatever perspective seems to be a propaganda, words without action. We, therefore, continue to stand practically on the side of the Greeks who resist. Golden Dawn means first and foremost before all national resistance, but also a national claim. Greek nationalism is the guarantee and hope of the future. With this faith we will go, defending the interests of the Greek people and in this parliamentary term and putting us above all and above all before all our Greece and the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u276	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn. You made a total use of your protagonist, denology and tritology, and given that neither the Chief of your parliamentary group spoke of this tolerance. I will now give the floor to three Members for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u277	Madam President, I have asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u278	You're with the MPs, Mr. Metarakis. Don't worry. If you precede it will be at the expense of Mr. Near, who is from your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u279	It's personal, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u280	I'll give you the floor. You are currently fighting for something that you have won. Don't do it. Mr Iyhan Kara Yusuf has the floor. Then Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos and then Mr. Mitarakis on the personal matter. Your time is five minutes, ladies and gentlemen. On the personal matter you have two minutes, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Madam President. I wish you success in your difficult task, as well as in the new Bureau that we have elected. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are living something unprecedented in our Greece. Citizens stop us on the street and say they did not vote for us on 25 January but today they support us with all their strength and heart. These days, we're living something unprecedented. There is a government that says the same aftermath of what he was saying in election. These days, we're living something unprecedented. Greece has risen up and has forced the world community to deal with the proposals and positions of our Government for the first time. Elladitsa is involved from Obama to Merkel, Putin and Draghi. The peoples are much more concerned with Greece. The Spanish protesters holding Greek flags and German trade unions received statements of support for our country. Three hundred of the top intellectuals did the same. These days, we're living something unprecedented. Politicians and politicians begin to be not synonymous with corruption, complexity, warfare. Today I think the citizens are more smiling, the discussions in the groups are more optimistic, the grey has retreated, and we all hope for a brighter future. Will you tell me, does our people imagine their desire to become a reality? Here we are, and we'll see everything. In any case, however, this deep breath of satisfaction was needed by our people whether they voted for us or did not vote for us. The negotiations with the European partners began. For the first time since the crisis, Greece's voice has been heard in Europe. With confidence and sobriety we formulate the views adopted by the Greek people, claiming a safe and fair way out of the crisis. Our Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and other government actors are visiting European capitals for top-level contacts. But that's good. There's the hard stuff. There is a widespread concern about the future of the country. The pressure on each side is suffocating. We have already had the European Central Bank say that it stops from 11 February to accept as Greek bonds. So it's time to decide who you're going and who you're going to leave. The new government has decided. We will go with those who want a citizens' Europe, progress, solidarity. We will go with those who want a Greece of dignity, independence, social protection, development. The strange thing is that some in Greece are trying to force the government because it has not deceived the citizens by implementing a different programme than they have voted on. Some people went even further, outside their wish that the lenders should dominate and not their country in this tough negotiation. The tweet "Geroon...engine" has made many of us shudder about the logic of the German globe that some people still have today, much more so since no one has so far contradicted the Greek Government's basic argument that the memorials are not a way out of the crisis but a guarantee of its perpetuation. The government insists that only after the end of austerity will Greece take breath and stabilise Europe. Today we are all convinced that none of the side of the negotiation is seeking to break. It makes sense at the start of a negotiation on each side to formulate its positions, which will also form the basis of the debate. So the agreement is possible because it is really beneficial for everyone. Greece has the possibility of returning to development with social justice. Europe, on the other hand, can deal with the Greek issue in the context of the wider transformation of economic policy that will give more space to monetary relaxation and more courageous steps of development strategy. At the same time, people are raising and claiming another Europe. With the Tsipras Government, he came out of the agenda, the notorious e-mail Hardouvelis - Samaras foreseeing new economic bleeding for the poorest. If Sunday's outcome was different, today we would not discuss the way out of austerity, but its depth. Instead of discussing the humanitarian crisis and debt write-off, we would be discussing pension cuts and new redundancies. We don't want to, and we can't be subjugated. We don't want to, and we can't be like the other guys. We do not want and cannot follow the same policy condemned by the citizens in the recent elections. We are not abolishing or merging school units. We want and can move on with synthetic policies. We want and can stay in Europe, contributing to a positive change. With these thoughts I am voting for the government's programming statements and I expect all Members to do the same. The Greek people demand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr. Kara Yusuf. I would ask Mr. Dimitris Kremastinos to come from PASOK and he is about to speak, as he is next, Mr. Mitatakis for his staff and then Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, Minister for Health, will speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st High School of New Ionian Magnesia (B' Department). The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u283	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end my basic thoughts, because it is impossible to put anyone seriously on the programme statements within five minutes. In his speech, the Prime Minister, among other serious issues he developed, spoke of a government of social salvation and paid particular attention to the reconstruction of the social state. Definitely agreeable. But can the reconstruction of the social state be achieved without the reconstruction of the economy? Never on this planet has any bankrupt country been able to have a credible social state. The social state is only the privilege of developed countries with a healthy economy, and indeed, it is the most privilege of the social democratic governments of England, Sweden and others. There is a sensitivity on this matter in terms of our own space that connected its existence to the social state which all of its ministers served with the relentless George Gennimatas. History will surely recognise Andreas Papandreou as the Prime Minister - the founder of the social state in the country, because alongside the social state he has built, he has achieved a redistribution of national income in favour of the economic weaknesses and the poor, unprecedented at that time. There was the one who delivered the country with a debt of 60% of GDP in 1996 - if I am not mistaken - or 65%, but warning from this Step of the House that if the country fails to destroy that debt, the debt will destroy the country. With its constant 'no' towards the strong forces of the European Union, it has succeeded in adopting the Mediterranean programmes to bring the country to development. Growth, he said, is the goal and is above debt, because when there is growth, the debt is secondary. But from 1996 to 2009, in 15 years' time, instead of growth, we have had a continuous increase in debt of up to 120% of GDP - from 60% to 120% - so the markets have ceased to lend us, and the country has necessarily been driven to borrowing by the people of Europe, on conditions imposed by creditors, in order to be able to collect their loans. Nobody lends anyone with the prospect of never getting their money back. These were the wonderful memos that, as the government says today, accepts part of them, 50-60-70%. This is unfortunately the real story. That is why the Committee of Inquiry, proposed by the government, should deal in depth and ask for the reasons why the country was bankrupt. But I would ask myself, and I would ask the Prime Minister himself, how he can revive this social state in a country which is proven to be bankrupt. For this reason, we would expect the Prime Minister to devote more time to the programming statements on how to deal with the issue of the development of the country, namely investment, the issue of the formation of the productive fabric that has been dissolved, the issue of productivity and, of course, exports, which are all at a disappointment. The IMF and the lenders are proposing a one-way path to growth that passes through the recession, low wages and unemployment, that is to say, they are proposing the path that each bankrupt third-world country is taking, which is becoming attractive to investors for investment with what it offers them. What lenders are proposing is so-called third world development. There is, however, another way that Germany followed after World War II and which stubbornly refuses to imply for us. It is a road through brave lending through the European Investment Bank for substantial productive investments in tourism and the primary sector, agriculture, livestock and other wealthy sources of the country. We are constantly talking about debt and its deletion, its haircut and its elongation at low interest rates, when it is known that the country owes less than half a trillion euros, when neighbouring Italy owes 2.5 trillion euros, France about the same, while the US and Japan are approaching the 14 trillion dollars. I ask myself: will all these countries have these debts zeroed? Do you expect America to pay the 14 trillion dollars? The answer is, no. However, these countries have development, production, competitiveness and exports of their produce and, of course, are countries that are leading the world economy, regardless of their huge debt. But how can growth begin in a country that is about zero, such as Greece, when there are no conditions for investment? At this point we would expect to hear how the government is thinking of attracting investors and, above all, of the incentives to attract investors or even - I hope - how we will demand substantial investment through the European Investment Bank. Without these conditions it cannot relive and survive the social state. We have these sensitivities, because we worked for the social state. The National Health System was inexistent before 1981. EKAV, telemedicine, the Aegean planes, which are currently carrying patients in heavy condition in the center of Athens, were previously transported by ships and Olympics. The current Minister for Health has been the Secretary-General for Welfare on my own Ministry and is well aware of our plans at that time and the reasons why the plans have not been completed. What interests were resisted today by the Minister for Health. We will sincerely support all serious efforts in this direction, regardless of the reservations we have about the implementation of a large part of the programming declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr. Kremastein. Mr. Mitaris has the floor for two minutes strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance in his speech threw me in for the operation of the Hellenic Investment and Export Trade Company. He spoke yesterday about his attempt to combat waste, and we really wish him a good success. But the example he used is unfortunate and creates false impressions. The Enterprise Greece Agency, in two and a half years' time I was responsible, reduced its state grant by 40% - from 2.9 million to 1.6 million - and in parallel with the rental of the building mentioned yesterday, three other buildings were leased and totalled EUR 100,000 a year. Despite the reduction in the budget, the Agency received three new responsibilities under a law passed by the Parliament in 2014, without taking on another world, seventy-one missions were awarded by the World Bank for its operation. The Institute of Packaging mentioned by Mr. Deputy Minister is a good example of how you can reduce the waste. We closed it because it did not meet any real need and no body has been looking for it since it closed, because it had no customers. There are issues that the clearer has to see. There was the'since' insurance programme, for which the state budget paid millions of euros and provided six-digit payments to employees, which we stopped. There was also a practice, through the NSRP, of former OPE workers putting their children into projects. And that's what we stopped. These two events, it is only natural that they have created reactions to the workers who may have transferred some incorrect information to Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u287	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u288	Mr Marda, I will not give you the floor. We don't have time. The Minister for Health, Mr. Kourublis, has the floor for ten minutes. And because he is an experienced parliamentarian, he will help us self-limited, although he is responsible for such a neuro-algal health sector. Here, Mr Kurubli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u289	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are really experiencing historic times. We all know what's going on in the country. We all understand that these days are crucial. We must all invoke the patriotism of the Greeks and support the efforts of the Greek Government by making self-exceeding parties and MPs, an effort that does not concern parties that co-govern but concern the country, a troubled country from the memorial storm. Ladies and gentlemen, if you read what was written in the period prior to the Balkan Wars, you realise that, unfortunately, history is repeated in respect of misery that is even emitted today at these times when the government is trying to defend the dignity of this people. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the government's programming statements and to the particular area that my Prime Minister has assigned me. Health is a crucial asset for all of us, rich and poor. It is, however, a good that the constituted and coordinate state should ensure without discrimination to all Greeks and Greeks, to all citizens living in this country. It is a public asset for which we all have to work together and exhaust the margins of the economy, under any difficulties, to limit the effects of corruption and corruption, in order to secure resources, not from the surplus but from the lack of the economy, because the area of health is a source of insecurity or safety production. If you provide services that truly ensure equal access without discrimination to citizens, then you produce security for citizens. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not think that this expenditure is a waste. When they are made with a household, rationalized, when they have specific targets, they are reproductive investments that contribute to the health of a people. And a people, when they have health, is a people who create, produce and progress. We therefore want to start this effort with optimism and stubbornness, that we can also underneath these difficulties offer significant opportunities in this area, in a multitude of space where small and large interests are endured, where the failure of civilian staff in most cases has proved to be. Mr Cremastinos referred earlier to the period from 1993 to 1996 where he had a great deal of interest. So we will start this great creative effort in this area, trying to do the first, namely to support a system that has suffered the consequences of a monumental storm, to blood the system with new human resources. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are liberalising a thousand posts which were the product of previous competitions which had been stopped because of the time of the crisis. Through this liberalisation, we are covering an important - but not sufficient - need to heal the system by April by putting about a thousand doctors in the system of secondary health. At the same time, we will be reopening the competition before the end of the day, involving subsidiary doctors. This is a competition which only showed interest in the three hundred out of the nineteen places it provided for. We are called upon by the re-appointments of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction a significant number of staff in order to blood the system. And, of course, we believe that from the recruitments planned for this year by the government, it will enable the National Health System to be blooded by doctors who will be assigned specialty in targeted positions to meet real needs for nursing and paramedical staff. Ladies and gentlemen, our second objective is the re-election of the National Health System. This is a National Health System which was founded in the 1980s and despite its weaknesses, we must confess that it offered considerable attention to the care of the Greek citizen. We therefore want to re-establish this system on new foundations with a modern, functional and effective institutional primary health, public health, so that we can actually launch the prevention strategy in this particular area. We therefore want to move on to new institutions that will build a new effort in this area, an effort that will be capable of restraining the entire periphery of the Greek citizen so that the Greek citizen can feel that there is an anthropocentric state that emits warmth and humanity to all people without discrimination. Third and critical pillar of this effort is to use modern technology, information technology and to unify, at last, information and information systems in this area within the framework of the HRB and finally to aim at at a specific time to create the health TAXIS system, a single system that can monitor and interfere with the source of health costs, in order to limit the phenomenon of corruption. We are determined, ladies and gentlemen, to unify, at last, this system that is, unfortunately, fragmented in the interests of certain interests and the state's inability to have an integrated picture of what is happening on all aspects and all levels of operation of the system. We will put the digital signature in direct operation together with the new anti-fraud system, utilizing all the infrastructures of the HICP, so that we can really limit all these phenomena that so far hurt, if you want, this sensitive space, for which I believe we are all looking forward to working and working together in order to upgrade it. Next pillar of our effort is pharmaceutical policy. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last ten years Greece has become the big party of the medicine. The country had as many recipes as there were forty million inhabitants. The country had drug consumption and costs as many countries with a population of three times as high as the population of Greece, without even having an upgraded quality of services in this particular area. We will try to establish a modern model of intervention in the field of health, in the field of medicine, so that we can decisively collide with all those interests that insist on sucking this space, so that we can through this model and limit all these phenomena, so that we can eliminate them and secure a medicine for all the citizens of that country who have AMKA. It is an obligation for the Greek state to work in this direction. We are determined, ladies and gentlemen, by establishing this model, to secure resources that we will reinvest in the health sector, to make use of the health map, for which the Greek people have spent more than EUR 6 million, so that we can really contribute to a qualitative design in this whole area. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I heard my predecessor, Minister, wondering where we will find the money to abolish the EUR 5 and EUR 1 in the recipes. I did not really want to come back to phenomena that, in fact, are sad and do not honor any of us. We will therefore find them, Minister, in the event of the reintroduction of the provision that you have abolished and made the wholesale profit when the multinationals sell their products directly to the pharmacy. There was a provision that stipulates that wholesale profit, when it doesn't go through the drug stores, goes to the EOPY. This has been abolished for the benefit of multinational companies. This provision will be restored. And from this provision we expect a substantial amount. A second issue, which I must mention, is the continuation of EEAS and primary health care, to rent buildings at prices that are really challenging for the period or to continue to rent buildings that we do not need. So I'm telling you an example. In Agia Paraskevi, we have a building of three thousand square meters. and we still keep rented buildings of the EEA in which we pay a lot of money. But what really is challenging and shows that you, ladies and gentlemen, took advantage of the public property you are denounced to us is the famous Olympic works building. This is a building on Kifissia, an area of thirty-two thousand square meters, which was allocated to the Ministry of Health and suddenly took it back, sold it and what happened? She forced the Ministry of Health and Welfare to rent it for ninety years, please! To rent it - well you hear - for ninety years with 4,000,000 rent and 1,000,000 per year maintenance. And the most explosive. When we went to the Ministry, we met, ladies and gentlemen, in this building, only 15 employees! Did we order this service to be transferred to the EKA buildings, and what did we see? That the Ministry of Health is obliged, ladies and gentlemen, even to rent the building, while it will remain unholy - and you realise that in this period who will be interested in renting a building of thirty-two thousand square meters - to pay the owner. These are the "works and days"! There are a lot of things I can say, but I am unfortunately going to hit the President's time. But I'll say something we met today. The Ministry of Health and Welfare, ladies and gentlemen, is invited to pay for two years, Mr Cremastine, EUR 15 million to our German friends for support, to make a health bill, primary care, and to issue ministerial decisions, for things that the services today refuse to certify that there is work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u290	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u291	This is the work that, ladies and gentlemen, the previous government has attempted to promote, saying that it is promoting reforms. We have asked, ladies and gentlemen, for the government's approval that the famous BMW and the plane to be sold to the Ministry of Health, because the predecessor leaderships have not found 800,000 euros to repair the hundred and twenty ambulances that are parked. Because he didn't have the 800,000 euros to repair. So there, where you have not been able, ladies and gentlemen, to find money, make a little patience, and you will see that we will find money to really support this space. We are determined to deal with all these phenomena that hurt the dignity of our people, all these phenomena that cause deprivation of the cancer patients of our country and disappear because there is a delay in their treatment. Because no Greek and no political rest can sleep when they endure in this area of such interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much to the Minister for Health and why he has confined himself. Please let Mr. Short come for four minutes strictly. You may also be the last Member to speak. Come on a little quick. Mr Conté, because you have also sent a letter of absence, which I must announce, I will put it to this House at the first opportunity. You have the floor for four minutes. Immediately after Mr Stavros Theodorakis has been prepared, who has asked for the floor, and I will then announce the order. I would like to ask everyone here, from now on, to be disciplined over time, because time is not enough to even speak with the ministers who have been declared. Therefore, if there is self-restriction, more will be able to speak. Mr. Conté, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned about the government's programme statements. We are listening to a repetition of a percentage of the election commitments that are evident to be aimed at mocking the ears of those who voted in favour of the ruling party. In some cases promises and commitments become more rounded up or refer over time to an indirect confession that the account probably does not come out at the same time, in an attempt to contain somewhat the excessive expectations that have been put forward in an election. We are listening to positions and proposals, which, in my view, are turning us back and threaten to blow away everything with effort and sacrifices from Greek citizens and a substantial effort from the previous government has been built over the last two and a half years. The truth is that there may have been mistakes in the past under the suffocating pressure of our lenders, but the country has avoided the cliff, stood up to its feet and the first positive measurable results have begun to appear in the economy and since the country was not in elections in 2015, it is certain that they would pass on to society. These positive results are certainly a strong negotiating weapon for the current government in its discussions with the European partners, even if it refuses to admit it. Of course, it is positive that the government's great turn to realism, since the abolition by a law of all the country's Memorandum obligations has reached Mr Varoufakis, even though today he has tried to round things up, to accept 70% of these arrangements, even though the ones in their resolution as a whole have been severely fought by SYRIZA. The new Republic is inclined to help the government in these critical times, provided it naturally shows realism, not to tear down what has so far been built and not to deviate from the European path, which is a one-way road and which is only positive prospects for our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I must point out that from the government's point of view on the part of the public sector, from the point of view of the public sector, we hear a great deal about the country's development. But little has been said about private sector development, about attracting new investment from Greece and abroad, for the absorption of European programmes, to support border and sensitive areas such as Thrace, for substantial support for the agricultural sector. We all know that the primary sector is very important for our national economy. Not only because it contributes more than EUR 12 billion to national GDP, but because it largely ensures our nutritional adequacy, supporting to a decisive extent the productive and social fabric in the Greek region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What are the first samples of government writing on this site? On the substance, the Government abolished the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and incorporated its actions into a superministerial ministry, the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, which even in its title mentions anything related to agriculture and livestock. Nobody knows what the targets will eventually be and how this ministry will work. With the structure of the new government, the Ministry of Agriculture for the first time since 28 April 1910, which has been set up under the law, loses its autonomy, removes its role in rural development and turns into a branch of handling bureaucratic cases relating to the agricultural sector. And all this is happening in an hour of crisis and in a period of implementation of the new common agricultural policy 2015-2020 for the effective implementation of which the Ministry was required to upgrade and not to weaken. We are, unfortunately, the only ones in the European Union who no longer have an autonomous and independent Ministry of Agriculture, when in most Mediterranean countries, the role of this Ministry is particularly strengthened with additional powers, such as food, energy and the environment. The New Democracy as a sideline of responsibility has already made it clear that it supports every national effort for a beneficial agreement with the partners, which gives prospects to the economy and support the Greek society, as long as this effort is not spent on re-racialism and choices that serve micro-political purposes but are an effort aimed at the real development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Conté. Mr. Theodorakis, because you had asked a Minister to intervene, to give the floor to Mr. Apostolos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u295	You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u296	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will go straight to our proposals. The rural world placed its hopes on SYRIZA. We're committed to justifying his trust. We know what we're gonna do, we have a schedule. However, first of all, the task at this time is to stand in a timely and effective way with the farmer, and we are already doing so when his production is affected. We are already recording the damages and will directly compensate with ELGA's money for livestock and plant production that is destroyed throughout the country from the floods, from Epirus to Central Greece and Evros. We give exceptional aid for feed where necessary and in a short time we will compensate for the disasters in equipment, facilities and plant capital. At the same time, we must stop the destruction of the productive fabric of rural society, and this is what we will do primarily with the householding of the Ministry's finances and the proper management of its resources, with targeted measures aimed at strengthening its income, and it is the abolition of HIS VIA in the fields, stables and warehouses, as well as the taxation of agricultural income from the first euro at a rate of 13%. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We also define for farmers a tax-free individual income of 12 000 which will remain outside the compulsory holding of books of revenue - expenditure. Secondly, we will have a reduction in the cost of production with the introduction of a reduced electricity tariff and the gradual abolition of excise oil, so that we can get as quickly as possible to the European Union average and in the future end up with the agricultural oil that has been the main concern for years in the rural area. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] A third measure is the reintroduction of the thirteenth pension to low-pensions, all of which are farmers. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Targeted liquidity-providing measures are: Firstly, the regulation of agricultural debts in the context of the government's general policy on red loans. Secondly, the suspension of auctioning of agricultural assets, in particular those relating to the production process. Earth, machinery, warehouses, we won't let them leave the rural area. Thirdly, the establishment of a special-purpose bank to support primary production, processing and disposal of products. Aimed, also, measures related to technological support are: Firstly, the reintroduction of public services in the countryside. We are creating a modern network of agricultural applications and research that is spread across the region and in every municipality where experienced geotechnics and all geotechnics will serve at the beginning of their professional careers and we shall be directly initiated by the breeder. Secondly, the establishment of a genetic material bank based in Thessaloniki, in order to maintain and protect genetic collections. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thirdly, we move on to the correct capture of grazing land with a view to the smooth and uninterrupted flow of Community funds. The treatment of pastures until yesterday is the worst case of inability to manage the country's governance issues. In addition, targeted measures will be available to absorb and make proper use of the rural development programme where there is a decline in the order of seven hundred million and to channel them to cover not only damage to the area but mainly the implementation of an operational programme for livestock farming aimed at renewing livestock. In our plan, the main parameter for rural activity will be to improve its competitiveness and this will be achieved by the aggressive projection of the country's agri-food and agri-tourist advantages. There is now no organized agricultural trade policy for export. You saw what happened to our characteristic case in the government's failure to defend the feta. We are increasing competitiveness and with added value, because we have calculated that 1% of value added in the agricultural product means ultimately 5% increase in agricultural GDP. It is a lot of issues, particularly concerning cooperatives, because there is a very serious issue with regard to reorganisation, where responsibilities will be attributed to mismanagement phenomena, but also to regenerate cooperatives, with particular emphasis being placed on primary cooperatives and producer groups. We make use of all productive resources. We are going to say a lot about the land bank, so that we can use not only the land of the public that is currently not exploited but the properties of the rural area, so that we can support an area that we need as a country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speech is ringing.]] I don't have time to say more. I will just say that at tomorrow's meeting we will have at the Ministry of Agriculture with the farmers that we had found on the roadblocks in the last period, we will report all our commitments to the rural area, and tomorrow's evening in Larissa, in the region's agri-foodstuffs report. So we have a programme for a primary sector and because I have heard many protests, we have one, we have the will and we will do much for the rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr. Apostolos. I invite the party's president, the Potami Mr. Stavros Theodorakis. Mr Theodorakis, before you begin, let me say that the next speaker will be the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Mr Tsironis. I would ask all the Deputy Ministers to adjust their speeches to the five-minute, the Deputys in the Quartet and the MPs, if we can, in the third minute. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, friends and opponents, I am in a role I have never imagined and will try today and as many times as it takes in the future to be honest, which will help me to feel comfortable in this new Step. The moments are critical, not only because we lack the euro - which we lack - but because we have lost our orientation, we have lost a section - I fear - of our minds and our hearts. We've confused slogans, roles and goals. It is a question, of course, whether a Parliament renewed by 50% can become the yeast for a new policy. I hope, however, that we will be in the mood to hear and then decide. Let me say, of course, that I am not very optimistic about this. I fear that a lot of people in here first think about the benefit of their party and then the benefit of many. But we have no other way than to try it. So let's go and warm up the atmosphere and the relationship between us and what we first agree. The fight against tax evasion, conflict with the clientele and corruption, is a yes, a priority for the country. They must also be horizontally controlled by an audit authority, so that we do not have any confusion, all the existing lists. Nicolud, Liechtenstein, Lagard. We agree that it is a priority to combat the smuggling of tobacco and oil. We put in an input-out system and no one controls it. And in LPG we haven't set any rules and no control mechanisms. We agree that there is a triangular relationship between banks, media and policy that distorts information, tries to define political developments and burdens, in addition to all other broad concepts and public funds. We agree that we should put an end to sea-loving, although I think we're diligent when we're only talking about sea-loving. It is a repetitive bank crime, millions of millions who feed dead businesses and offer nothing to society. Instead of waiting for loans to be identified by the auditors of the European Central Bank, a political agreement must be reached on the whole of the political system, which will allow or - if you like - require banks not to approve loans because someone strong enough has closed their eyes. Bank money is not for bankers bankrupt but for those who invest in knowledge, innovation and respect the world of work. We therefore agree on the need for a new state, without loopholes and barons. In particular, we agree with the fight against the client state, although I was surprised to hear the Prime Minister speak for the first time about a client state. After three years? Now did you remember? I hope it is not a smokescreen, to seek the customers of the New Democracy and PASOK while others are setting up their own client state. Because you will understand, gentlemen of the government, many of those who have loved you in recent months are the favourites of the deep client state. They pierced the SYRIZA in case they were saved. And they must have saved themselves. The new government must avoid the mediocracy through which the political system survives. The mediocrities will be set outside your offices. The good ones need you to look for them. And finally, there must be a system of extremism of failed failures, both in politics and in the business sector. Without honest competition, without merit, the air, the oxygen of politics and the economy is diminishing. So our proposal is specific and you have nothing but to adopt it. Those who have not been able to come to parliamentarians should not be appointed to state positions. And if they were appointed, they would not be able to return to politics until four years had elapsed. We agree with the symbolic cuts announced by the Prime Minister at the Maximos Mansion, at the duty of ministers, in the cars of MPs on the third government plane. I didn't know we had three. Some on the internet commented on “eggs.” It's not like that. "One of the lion's ears." Somehow, we have come to have one of the most expensive political systems in the Western world and at the same time one of the most inefficient ones. So you will allow me to make two proposals here. Extreme control over all those responsible "outside" and in particular politicians. It is a shame to discover that judges perforated politicians have been perforated when they have now been retired. Second sentence. After the January elections, SYRIZA may extract five hundred sixty-four civil servants. The New Democracy of three hundred ninety ones and the River three. So we propose a brave cut. The parties and the MPs to extract fewer employees from what we are entitled to. That is to say, to ensure that around a thousand civil servants are made redundant. [[Applause from the party wing The river]] And can I tell you something? We in Potami will take the least possible civil servants, regardless of what the rest of the political system will do, as we did with the police. We refused the plans and the accompanying cars. So we are allies of the government in the effort for a lesser state in the service of policies. But we are slowly going to disagree with what we are disagreeing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in 1974. And Mr. Tsipras is not Karamanlis who returned from Paris after the fall of the junta. In other words, we are not at the beginning of postpopulation. Yesterday's governments were democratic governments. We are separated from the policy of the New Democracy and PASOK, but two and a half million had voted for them, as two and a half million voted for you. I'm putting the ANELs together, too. So it is dangerous to talk about returning democracy. Democracy does not exist only when we win. Put aside his hate rhetoric, the rhetoric of the indignant. Those who disagree with you are not mercanisers, they are not worshiped and submissive. Do not copy your extreme right-wing partners, who until yesterday considered you as comets and anti-national thinkers. Put an end to harmful polarization. We don't need a new nationalism. A new patriotism needs us. But don't confuse this. Don't follow the logic of the arena that feeds old hatred. Turn the page. And you and the President of Parliament spoke of committees of inquiry, Prime Minister. But don't talk so easily about committees of inquiry. Don't criminalize political life. The political decisions taken by previous governments, even if it was wrong - and many of them were wrong for us too - were not illegal. So stop the debate on traitors and anti-resistanceists now. What are they resisting anyway? Unknown. Why should citizens be alert, as you said? Who's gonna betray? You rule. We do not want a Pontius Pilate government, which, when the difficult things come, will say 'the people now decide in the squares'. And Europe is talking about this conflict as the foreign factor that wants to interfere in our internal affairs. Is Europe a foreign factor? The answers, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, must be clear and unambiguous. Do not close the eye some of you in an anti-European ergonomicism and ethnicism. Do not drift away from the extreme nationalist component of your government. On the contrary, strengthen the modernisation of society, become an open society, without prejudice. The child of the immigrant who was born in Greece, grew up in Greece and studied in Greece, is for us Greek. And it's not only Greek if it's called to play at NBA. From ANEL strains, we have of course heard many homophobic slogans, as well as antisemitic conspiracy theories. They speak hostility to Thrace Muslims. It is the essence of ethnicism, fear of anything else. And you'll tell me. What can the House do? He can do a lot. Nationality in the second generation, rights in different and cohabiting pacts for homosexual couples that cost nothing. Europe, after all, is not just the euro, it is a difficult path towards an open society. But let's go to the euro too, because that's not insignificant. In our assessment, the Eurozone will sometime proceed to a full economic and political union. Only then will people's Europe, development, solidarity and security be given content. So, for us the euro is not just the obsession for a currency. It is the card for Greece's equal participation in the course of European unification. The relationship with our partners should be characterised by mutual respect, solidarity and the availability of commonly accepted solutions. And let me... [[At this point the closing bell of the party president's speaking time is ringing The Potami]] You must have made a mistake over time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Theodorakis, it's been wrong with the clock. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u301	Yeah, but the bell's ringing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u302	Don't worry. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u303	I'm not a government minister. I've got more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u304	You have 15 minutes with tolerance under the Rules of Procedure. I didn't interrupt you. You can go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u305	The other political leaders spoke in total about forty to forty-five minutes with two talks. It's the first time I've been talking, and I hope you're respecting the sense of parity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u306	But you're interrupting yourself. I didn't interrupt you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u307	I said that our relationship with the partners should be characterised by mutual respect, solidarity and also the availability of a search for commonly accepted solutions. But let me say that the Greek ministers are not crusaders, they are not Europe's liberators, they are not the prophets of a new religion. Let them leap out of the white and deal with the problems of the country. Greece, of course, cannot continue on the same line. The neoliberalism that many have loved, even socialist parties - not only here but in the rest of Europe - is not a solution. The 'program - doses - austerity, programme - doses - austerity' does not work out. It is a wrong recipe that created an economy clinically dead with the decoration of the primary surplus on the bellside. We lost 25% of GDP. We got another million unemployed. We led to immigration many of the best youth minds. The Germans must therefore stop repeating monotonous agreements, there are agreements. But our side cannot only invoke the fresh people's mandate and the mood for a break, as I have heard before. It's not just the Greek people who are dominating. In the European Union there are twenty-seven other peoples who also need to perpetuate their people's sovereignty. But is there a solution right now? There is, and we have proposed it. Ask Eurogroup for an extension. You seem to need it because you were not ready, even though you have been asking for elections for two years now. We should negotiate and close a first package of reforms with our partners. To close the programme and our relationship with the troika and give us the instalments due. We need Europe's money, because rather the plan to print money in the Holargo is not going on. But these Europeans - let me have the term - arrangements do not solve the problem of the country. The government must promote major reforms in the economy, justice, administration, education, the constitution, which obliges our partners to see Greece and the debt of the Greeks differently. There should be an agreement to reduce the strangulative primary surpluses of less than 2%. We asked for it before the elections, when you were talking about a nominal deletion of most of the debt. The aim of a social saving government, as you say, should be at the end of the year, Greece should be able to issue ten-year bonds at an interest rate of around 3%. But that will never happen if there is no agreement with our partners. Will you call it a "programme"? Will you call it a bridge agreement? Let's call it Rosa Luxemburg. We will support it if it ensures our European future. But stop repeating errors that have even surprised our allies in Europe. If you keep telling them that you are not bound to the signatures of the previous ones, then who will believe your signature? Have you thought of that? And don't talk to them all the time about the heroes who die standing up. It's important to win, not to be a statue. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing the biggest crisis facing the country in a time of peace. We're talking about it every day. We're protesting, we're crashing, we're negotiating. But something we've forgotten, something we've underestimated, something we avoid saying, and we don't show it at the table. And that's education. The new government came out and the first thing he said is that eternal students will return to school. Is that the change you bring? The first statements by the Minister, unfortunately, are'returning rapidly in 1982'. You have already decided to throw out those brilliant Greek foreign scientists who have come to offer unforgettable time and know-how. Of course, we did not hear a word about linking schools to production. It seems to be taboo for some of you that is law in all the countries of the West. All of these are indicative messages of a SYRIZA branch that doesn't want to change anything in the country. Sweden, Finland, South Korea, countries that have experienced a major crisis and recession, are currently pioneers in education. And where you should bring the revolution, you only say what you're going to do, what you're gonna stop and what you're not gonna do. We are calling for a national dialogue not with the usually suspected parties but with the figures we all respect and commit that the changes in education proposed by this national committee will be voted on by a majority of over eighty Members, as will the President of Parliament. Public character of educational units and not units working as departments of Ministry, evaluation of school and teachers, ensuring equal opportunities with support of the most weak and standard schools as a priority in all degraded areas of the country. The same national needs must be done in research - the presence of Kostas Fotakis precedes us absolutely positive - but also in culture, justice and other areas where we feel that there are people we can get to know. By the way, because there's a reason for ERT, yes, for ERT to reopen. But not SYRIZA's ERT, nor the ERT of the parties, because you know that there was this model too, to share the positions between us - but an ERT for all Greeks. Put people on the head who can guarantee a new course without re-changing and without the diseases of the past. All these people who dare the new one, we will strengthen them and give them all the help if they ask us to change everything without tearing down the country. But, friends of SYRIZA, I fear that some among you see reforms as the round of death, they get vertigo and they prefer to be with the past that went bankrupt rather than with the new Greece that strives to be born. So, so far you have sent contradictory messages: Others to the components, others to society and others to the lenders. Looks like you're trying to buy time. Time, however, from what the country does not have. Ladies and gentlemen, the real, major reforms require conflicts with established perceptions, with interests and guilds. You electionally promised everyone justice, public administration, education. So to proceed, you must clash with your election self. You have responsibility for the fact that today's House is not a review and cannot change the law on the responsibility of Ministers either. You should have suggested changing this abominable electoral law, which you have previously denounced. You are responsible for the hopes of the unemployed, the poor, the overtaxed Greeks. You presented them all easily and fed 'roll-bone-blowers'. You told them that with a law, with an article, everything would change. And now you say, "Wait and we'll see." On Monday, 26th, the minimum wage will go to 751 euros. You yelled at it. And now you say, we will see it again in 2016, even if the partners agree. You did not say a word these days about the minimum guaranteed income. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal and we are waiting for your reply. Mr President-in-Office, perhaps you will be paradoxical, but I would like Mr Tsipras and you to have said everything right these three days in the House. The river has not come to add problems and egoism to political life. We're here for solutions. And when the solutions come from others, we will vote on them. We won't get stuck with the disease of the old system that says everything's fine or everything's bad, depending on the seating seats. But you say the Thessaloniki program is the plan to govern the country. Can you still believe it? From the program of Thessaloniki, there are no words that the country will never find: Entrepreneurship, innovation, exports. You want to rule a country that's downhill with the machine and you don't say a word about how the machine's going to get started, i.e. the economy. You must also think that the problem is not always the few taxes that pay the known sucklers but the fact that the state is wasting much more than it has to collect from taxes. Many taxes are exhaustive. By the way, you said you guaranteed the statements. Do you guarantee liquidity too? Ladies and gentlemen, we say that the country needs to begin to produce again, to come investors, to stop youth begging for an allowance, to have a job, not to want favors from politicians. Can the Chinese extend to the port? Yeah. The Russians on the railroad? Yeah. The Arabs in tourism? Yeah. The North Europeans on renewable energy? Yeah. Greek entrepreneurship and quality Greek production must also be strengthened. The agricultural sector is in a total collapse. The country's enormous potential is crushed by the lack of a rural development programme with specific objectives and a binding timetable. There must therefore be a programme where farmers will know what the productive objective is, what markets are, and above all, there must be consistency and commitment by the State in relation to its obligations. I do not hide from you that in this area it is my great concern. Even today some ministers were calling investors from here, from this Step, to leave the country. Does Mr Varoufakis agree with what Mr Lafazanis said today, that we should cancel all major investments? And how will jobs be found? Presidential decrees? The income of the Greek family can only be improved when production is increased. If we do not rely on our own powers, if we do not increase production, if we do not attract investments, if we do not improve our know-how, we will continue to ask for credit. Who, though, will bring his money to a country with sudden taxes, with huge increases in electricity and gas tariffs in recent years, in a country with bureaucracy, without timely administration of justice? That is why the government had to speak these three days. And he didn't talk! You didn't say anything essential to the insurance. We have ageing populations, mismanagement by unrelated, unemployment and anemic economic activity. Result? The responsible are praying that the grenade shuts into each other's hands. Here's the field of the next great national alliance we're proposing. We must dare to tell the truth and to work out solutions which the House will vote with a large majority. This world, gentlemen of the government, does not change by 36%. There are major social majorities in education, in insurance, in production and, of course, in the public sector. On the difficult crossroads we are in, the big issue is not just the end of austerity. It's what we do next. Is the country going to change? Are we really going to leave behind the client state, corruption, the colonization of the guilds? It's unpleasant, but the government officials have not said a word about the tampering these three days. No reform in public. Only customer arrangements. Our proposal is public. We did it in November. Study her. It's a full public reform program. And he's at your disposal. Ladies and gentlemen, scientists insist that the best estimate is often the one formed in the first blink of the eye. If that is the case, then I will say that your first statements, the first assessment of the new government figure, are not positive for us. And we're not obsessed with you because the other guys did bad things. I understand that the Prime Minister has a big problem. On the one hand, he has the indignant insiders and on the other he has the indignant foreigners. It's not easy. And maybe the only solution is the truth. No more promises inside. No more evacuations inside. No more lies abroad. You must - let me - find the right policy mix. Common sense - resistance. Compatibility - conflict. Realism - dream. Everything is needed, but the doses will determine success or destruction. We, Potami, will be here, defenders of a progressive, regenerative policy, without idealism, without cultures, without dependencies, in the battle for the common good, opponents of stagnation and regression. Of course, your allies in Europe. Your allies - to clarify this - trying to keep the country in the centre of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u308	Thank you to the party president, Potami. I invite Mr. Tsironi, Deputy Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, to Stepma, strictly for five minutes. The Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism will be followed for 10 minutes, Mr. George Stathakis. Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u309	I should like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister and the parties who supported the government for the confidence they showed in an Echologos Green and, more generally, in the European and the Greek 'green movement' to take the Nicaraguan Ministry of the Environment. I really don't know if I'm lucky to take the floor right after Mr. Theodorakis, who asked questions, and I imagine he's expecting some answers. Because most of the questions we have heard were ritual questions, but none of them put the finger on the type of suns. And here I have to say that Mr Theodorakis has very good suggestions from the 'green movement' which at least in his own programmes has not listened to them. Let it be. I would like to thank all those citizens who have learned that I am taking over these duties, who have bombed me with these honest proposals, those visions that the country needs to go forward and achieve what our ministry is, productive reconstruction. Because the environment is a key pillar for productive reconstruction. Because all these citizens - and what I say here are not my own wisdom but they are citizens' experiences - are those who have not been heard for so many years. So what is our Ministry's first programme commitment is that we are open to citizens and are not afraid of them. I would remind you that geothermality has been lost in Greece, because some have gone to do so arbitrarily without talking to the citizens of Milos. The same happened with wind turbines. And today - the colonel Paulakis said it - instead of doing what they do all over Europe, that is to say, putting together the citizens themselves in self-production of energy, we went to charge them for wind turbines only for profit. And of course they lifted black flags. And well they did, because they're the citizens. And I will ask you one question, ladies and gentlemen: are you not telling me what is the best form for the TAP pipeline? Is it the one that ensures the greatest interests of investors, or is it the one that will be made by farmers who have the high-performance agricultural land? Which one of them are the ones who know the program better? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I would mention a historical example: when the British Government for Chernobyl trusted the sheep and pollution experts, the unspeakable shepherds - who knew their land - ignored the infiltrations and did what they believed. Historically, what the shepherds knew saved thousands of sheep from infection, for they knew their lands better. Yesterday I was embarrassed to hear some people spoke deviously about the citizens' movement out there saying what? That they're indignant, reminding them of the punctual memory moved by gojamanis. And very quickly I will say - of course time does not allow it - that the Ministry will move in two areas. Design and control. And I will reply a little to Mr Tragakis on jobs, real jobs. When you talk about five thousand jobs in an investment, think about how many are lost in the overall environment. For example, all urban studies and the Athens Regulatory say that every new mall, every newly built space in Attica destroys jobs, does not bring jobs. So let us do our job, because we know what jobs mean. And people know it outside, shoppers know it in the mall that will kill them, for example, a new mall in the Botanic. These are, therefore, the real environmental impact studies, which are not, of course, the ones being done for "FRYS S.A.", which do not bring jobs. It's wrong. If we want to talk about jobs at the moment and about environmental impact studies, we should talk about something very simple. To talk about codification, so that the small businessman knows quickly and easily, what he can do and without too much costs he can do it easily and quickly. That's the key that the investor wants to know. I'll be back for a while - I'm not allowed to have time - in control. At the moment I receive a ministry that has less than a hundred 50 environmental auditors. That's like telling me that traffic in Greece has three hundred traffickers. That's like saying, full immunity. And maybe that's what some people think they're jobs. They are businesses that save the environmental impact and thus save costs, save costs. Well, you're wrong. And you're wrong too simply because the serious businessman, who comes to stay and not to grab, accepts unfair competition from these predators. And it accepts unfair competition multiplely. Because the entrepreneur who commits environmental crime, also makes tax crime, avoids and has "black" work. Operations in Athos don't just make infection. They're destroying healthy competition. So what does the investor, the big, the serious, the healthy investor, want to talk about investments in Greece? It calls for two very simple things: first, a stable tax system. Secondly - and very simple - to know where it invests, to what it invests and what obligations it has to the state. If we do not give them to him, then he will not come, Mr Theodorakis. That's our answer. He's not coming with any wishes you're telling us. As the Germans did not come - when they said so - with the 'ELIOS'. I'll say something else to close. We're talking about investment right now. So I inform you that Green New Deal - the programme drawn up by the European Green Party in 2011 with the crisis - is talking about six million European-wide jobs and 300 billion private and public investment. And we need to talk about public investment, because if they are not done, no one can find the environment coming. Mr. Lafazanis is absolutely right. And to say something unpleasant, and I'm sorry to close with it. You all say here, how disrespectful it is that we have to pay for the next eighty-thousand-five years of 350 billion. Can we? Shouldn't we cut them? Well, I inform you that by studying the Bank of Greece it is not 350 billion. It's another 700 that nobody's telling you. These 700, with the study of the Bank of Greece, are the expected losses in Greece from climate change. By 2100, it will cost 700 billion to our country for climate change. This is a glorious field, because this protection brings these jobs that I have already mentioned with cooperatives, renewable energy sources and dozens of other companies in environmental protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u310	Minister, and with this thought, please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u311	I'm done. So don't see the environment as a brake. Look at it as productive growth, because those countries that did it earn a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr. Tsironi. I call on the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr. Georgios Stathakis to step in. They will follow two to three Members from three minutes and then the President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Kammenos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must make it quite clear from the outset that, with the SYRIZA election, we are talking about a major shift in the country's development model. No halogens, no fragmentary formalities. We are talking about a major shift in the country's development model and I will explain it immediately afterwards. Firstly, by 2009 we followed a development model that led us to the rocks. I would remind you of what was his central idea. All development institutions and all planning forms are abolished in the country. At the heart of a privatised, liberalised banking system that guides the economy with a focus on what it considers to be comparative advantages that the era at the time has decided to be natural tourism, shipping, construction, telecommunications and certain liberated services. In the context of this programme, the idea of development has recorded the greatest record of privatization in Europe since Portugal. We have liberated several markets, proceeded with an extension to the interior, the Balkans, and this model, let's call it a banking centre, led the economy to the rocks. We're not going back to this. We're not going back to this. He closed his circle. We must look for the dramatic consequences that we must correct. I'm holding one of the dramatic consequences. For the first time in modern economic history, between 2000 and 2009, the country's ultimate agricultural production has been stagnated until reduced. And for the first time in the economy of the country, we experienced a terrible deindustrialisation of the Greek economy. The wording of SYRIZA for productive reconstruction focuses on this great correction to be made to the country's development model. We must refocus our attention on making the most of the reconstruction of agriculture of high added value, processing, but very different from in the past. Secondly, this model went bankrupt and the memorandum came. The Memorandum had a very specific development model, three things. I say this for the sake of clarity and privatisation in a privatised economy. To show you its failure, I would remind you that 3 billion billion has been privatizations so far. It's a lot of money! That's a great amount! To have a comparison measure, in 2009 Greece’s annual investments were 30 billion. I repeat, 30 billion, i.e. ten public investment, ten private, ten banking. This "privateisations will turn the economy" is an unprecedented theory and because there are no businesses to be privatised, which is why the major shift in infrastructure and in public land. Failed to be complete. The second idea is that by opening up social inequalities the performance and competitiveness of an economy are improving, so work and so on. And thirdly, the central idea is that the state needs to shrink accounting and taxation needs to be extended downwards. All three ideas failed, Greece was completed, reached 25% of its production. We're keeping two central ideas from this big reversal. Firstly, we think that the reduction of social inequalities is a factor of economic development, not an increase in social inequalities, which is why both the labour and the great package of Thessaloniki. We have a second idea. We need to reverse our gaze from easy solutions of this type, like the ones that brought the memorandum, and really think calmly and honestly about this great shift that the place needs. I'm reminiscing the principles of conversion. The reduction of social inequalities is a factor in progress. Faced with the same value as we face an archaeological site is a factor in progress. Thirdly, public goods are non-negotiable, because they are economic development players. That is why we want to transform the state to provide public goods in the way we want. Fourth principle. The idea that the banking system or a fully liberalised private sector will guide economic transformation is wrong. We need to find a new balance between the state and the private. Fifth principle and fundamentally, we must alleviate, disappear, today, the whole huge grey zone that takes over the relationship between the public and private sectors. And we're talking about an endless grey zone. I'll start with the simples. In 1930, Eleftherios Venizelos Prime Minister attended the TEI conference. One of the issues he was discussing was the need for an immediate training of a National Register. Date of birth: 1930-2015. Reading the Memorandum, it seemed to me that he had an explicit reference to the drawing-up of a Stock Exchange, to the completion of the National Stock Exchange. I don't remember a dose that impacted the non-completion of the National Register. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] I remember dozens of doses that were stuck in whether there would be team redundancies or not. Memorandum I spoke about speeding up national spatial planning. You know the state of our towns, you know the national spatial planning. I do not remember any evaluations that put the prerequisite - not the completion - of national planning as a prerequisite. The turn is great and the turn has these features that I told you about. Time is pushing me and I respect the next speakers very much. Allow me to say 11 specific measures in the next two and a half minutes on how to relaunch the economy and how to make this huge shift that will dismantle all our heirs. Cut one. An invitation to tender for the country's broadcasting frequencies. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] The only European country where television stations have been working for twenty-five years with temporary annual licences, i.e. some - I imagine - and some cafes. [[Laughing from the wing of SYRIZA]] Section two. Management of ‘red’ housing loans. We will introduce a law directly, which will bring full protection to the first house, restructure the loans... [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] ... by transferring the loans from banks to a public management body for all households located below or near the poverty line and by introducing legislation binding, with strict rules and with strong mediation to solve the problem of housing loans for all of the middle classes. Section three. Management of small and medium-sized enterprises' business loans in a business-friendly manner capable of restarting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship - I use the term of entrepreneurship without an asterisk - in our small and medium-sized activity. Section four. A new development law, which will give strong incentives to investment that the country needs and needs with sectoral and geographical criteria, primarily by central idea that we should abandon the old development laws and the problems they have created and turn to peak development laws, have a status and give a real incentive primarily to young, social, private and other businesses. I shall mention two more measures on the road. We will completely turn the complex institutional framework that supports export businesses, to make it effective, because we are talking about total despair of export businesses, and at the same time simplify and continue to simplify bureaucracy with business services centres on the basis of the successful JEP institution. One contentious point, which I want to make quite clear and irreversibly. On Sundays, the stores will be closed. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Society knows very well how to deal with these issues. We have, thank God, many tourist regions in the country with open shops on Sundays, but this is what the local society, the local trade association and the local region decide. This model will continue, in that very way. Last cut, with which I will close, is this: Greece pays and has paid quite a huge construction sector, where the pricing, management and transparency of major projects need a large structural section. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In our development model, there will be not only the great shift from large to small and medium-sized projects, what really needs a new development model in the country, but at the same time there will be new transparent rules with which we will know that public money goes for the purpose for which they are intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u314	Thank you very much to the Minister and to the advisability of his position. I shall now give the floor to the last two Members of Parliament. Mrs. Kanellepoulou, who was next, resigned. Therefore, the last two speakers are Mrs Kefalayannis and Mr Stathas. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u315	Madam President, since I have the floor for three minutes, you will allow me to make four points about the speech by the Prime Minister. Label first. We have heard no plans, no references to the private sector, to Greek businesses, to growth, to attract investment in the country. How will it be possible to relaunch the economy without the private sector? How will the appropriate growth conditions be created without new investments? How will unemployment be combated radically and over time? We've heard of public recruitment, of abolishing the rating, of more state. We have just heard from Mr Stathakis about social operations. If the answer to all these questions is public investment and the great, giant state, then it is confirmed that we are returning rapidly to a model of the 1980s. Labelling second. There were little general references to the main advantages of the Greek economy during the crisis, Greek shipping, export, tourism. Following the institutional deterioration of shipping and tourism, the Prime Minister's non-professionals have given rise to a particular question for follow-up. I would remind you in particular that it was tourism that pulled the Greek economy into growth. It has provided valuable revenue, stimulated the region, given thousands of young people and young people, and I am particularly sorry for the announcement we have just heard of closed shops on Sundays. Again Greece will be a country that is in the first place. Labelling third. It is now obvious that with the government's responsibility we are entering a collision orbit with our traditional partners and allies. Spasmist movements in the country's foreign policy can only hurt us. A Greece isolated, a Greece detached from the decision centers, a Greece alone looking for opportune allies, is the worst thing that can happen to us at this critical juncture. Labelling fourth. It was made very clear last night by the Prime Minister himself, but also by all the debate, the position of counter-reformation, namely the suspension of planned reforms and the squeeze of all those already made. In this way, Greece has been coming back many years. Reforms were and are the necessary condition to return to growth. It is the way to create new jobs, strengthen the economy, improve the lives of citizens. I hold the reference to the fight against bureaucracy in public or tax evasion as well as the Minister of Finance's statement that he will cooperate with the OECD on reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, in all this particularly worrying setting, the role of counter-population is of particular importance. The opposition of the period 2012-2014 was to the greatest extent of the conflict, isotopeic and not creative. Her own pursuit was the cancellation of every modernist effort. These are mistakes that must not be repeated. The country needs honesty, clear words from the opposition, but also consents where it needs to be. The centre-right is the prolongation of large compositions, national choices, national reconciliation, measure and moderation. It is the guarantee of the European, the democratic, the smooth course of the country. We are the sideline of responsibility, we are the party that promotes a new, modern patriotism, which strives and ensures that Greece is everywhere in the axis of progress and prosperity. These features are not going to be dismantled. We're here for the hard part, we're here for the homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. I'm calling Mr. Statha. Will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u317	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u318	You are making it easier for us, Mr Statha, you are the last speaker of Parliament, unless we can interfere with another.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u319	Colleagues and colleagues, we live historical times and certainly we SYRIZA Members who are here do not feel that we are saviors or that we are magicians. So, all this, as the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras and the ministers said, we want to have the Greek people next to us. And I and the rest of us would have been different for our country, for our country, and I wouldn't have gotten to the point where we've arrived. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Georgiades! I would certainly like things to have been much better for our people, for workers, for farmers and for small and medium-sized enterprises. The most pleasant moment I've ever felt in common was last week when I saw my fellow citizens in Syntagma Square joining the Greek Government for the first time. We want them next to us to be able to overthrow these policies. Only the ones next to us are going to make it, because they're the only ones we have. We have neither bankers nor the media nor anyone else to support us. Moreover, I am addressing the workers, the unemployed, the farmers and all these people of hardship. We don't want to be assigned, we want them to fight for their fairness too. Because fair is on our side, and in the end it will win. From here we won the first battle in 1940 in the war with Germany and from here, Germany will lose it again. That is why I propose to the Minister of Justice for Siemens that we urgently ask Mr Christoforikos to come back and look into how his financial advisor to Siemens has killed us over the past few days and ask us to find the conclusion at some point. Moreover, I am pleased that for the first time Greek Prime Minister raised the issue of German allowances, repayments and loan. Because I come from Distomo, for us it is a sacred matter, because those who have committed crimes against humanity must be punished no matter what years they pass. Most of my friends are in Germany. With the German people we have no problem, because they say they pay the lazy Greeks, while they tell us that "we have eaten them together". Both of us, we pay the bankers and the loan sharks, and we know that very well. Comrade Prime Minister, we want to take this to the end. It's a moral right, it's a right to a homeland. We're sure we'll win in the end. I am sure that in the end, not only will the Greek people win but all the people who are, at the moment in Europe, being beaten by Merkel's and her friends, her few friends' bankers. Good power! We're not afraid of them! They're scared of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Statha, you will allow me to tell you that I shared. I very much wanted you to be the last Member to speak precisely because of your origin and precisely because of the symbolism of this report. Mr President, the Group of Independent Greeks and the Minister of National Defence have the floor. I will certainly also address your politeness to limit as much time as you can, to give some ladies' State Secretarys the floor, because we still have two ministers, the Vice-President of the Government, and of course the Chief of Staff and, of course, the Prime Minister. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u321	Madam President, I will only speak for five minutes to give the floor to as many Members as we can. Yesterday I spoke as Minister of National Defence and today you will allow me to take five minutes as President of the Independent Greeks, the movement of the citizens that this seat started in 2010 and then I was alone. I was a deleted MEP, because I did not accept the big ass, denying what I promised the Greek people, the one and only exam, the medicine that kills the patient, the policy that dissolves our homeland. He became a citizens' movement through the Internet. We became a parliamentary group. They fought us and mudded us, but we resisted. We were elected for the second time and for the third time in the European elections. They sold us back. They're abducted. Yet, we stood up thanks to the Greek people. Thank you very much. And I thank him very much, because this is the Stepma, what we were saying from the start was to unite the Greeks, unite people from all over the place. I was reading the 2010 speech just now, 2011. To unite people from different spaces, from the left, from the centre, from the right, Greek and Greek, who are run by a troika – managed by a troika until the day before. The country was governed by an email. They sent us ultimatums and we were kneeling. And the Greek people proved that the Greeks were united. And as Winston Churchill said: "National unity is a wider concept even than the nation's very concept." There is a national unit. The polls now come out, which are not influenced by businessmen and the media and for the government, that 90% of the Greek people are in agreement with German compensation and 70% -80% agrees with the government's handling of standing up, kneeling and execution orders. They are with the government, Greek women and Greeks who have not voted for the parties that are currently supporting the government. They're with the nation. It's home together. They are together the Greeks and Greeks who were victims of this crisis. Because there is hope, because there is light, because in any case, they saw some standing up, as they talk upright and standing up, even when the Greeks worship, and negotiate. We ask for our children to return home from abroad. We're asking for a job of 70% of the young people sitting in their homes. We are asking that each Commissioner should not be insulted by a ministry. We ask for dignity, national pride. We call on Parliament to legislate democratically and not to force the government here, to take fear within a few days of a bill and self-determination of democracy. We ask for the Constitution to function. And that was the great success of this election. That is why the Greek people are with this government. That is why for the first time in the history of post-population they came down to the Constitution spontaneous citizens - we have not completely mobilised anyone - to support Greece. They neither support Tsipras nor Kammenos nor SYRIZA nor the Independent Greeks. They support Greece where it is negotiating. And Greece will win. Greece will be able to stand to win! [[Applause]] And don't be miserable. Come along to this great national effort. Come on, stand up, the Greeks to ask for what we are entitled to. You thought it yourself once before your knees, saying that this policy must lead to the slaughter of the Greek people. You were talking about a single examination. And let those who have come to this Chamber to compromise to be left alone. We can negotiate as a nation. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and friends, the good we promised the Greek people is a reality. And I want to say clearly that it is now time to be able to start a new way for our country and together we all support this new effort. I have already heard - and I regretted this because I expected it to be a united meeting - to be accused of a new party, which has even left Parliament now that I am speaking - like Mr Samaras who was always leaving when we were speaking - to blame us with various accusations, which are insurmountable. So I will tell him, my friend, Mr Theodorakis, that today we are reading the Programming Declarations of the Government, but the Members from this Step do not read what is written to them. And I close with a question in this debate that is being held in this Chamber and which he refuses today. He talked about ERT. Who's been taking them to ERT all these years? How much did he get for co-productions at the ERT? [[Applause]] Who were they who screwed up ERT? The 20s and the thirtys for each show were! The people of intertext like him! Let's apologise to this Step now that he's elected MP and let's join us together, let's go together to change things. We have a difficult road before us, but a road that will bring hope. Ladies and gentlemen, I am only giving you one element, and I am coming down from the Step. Today we have called with the political leadership, with the Deputy Minister, Mr. Quiet and the State Secretary, the National Defence Fund, to see what assets the Armed Forces have for exploitation. Only the assets of the Ministry of National Defence, the National Defence Fund, i.e. the closed camps and property that has been lost from inheritances, are 32,496,000 euros, which yield EUR 1,100,000 each year. There is no need, therefore, to become democracies. We need to unite this place, unite together and formulate a new policy that the people will impose, not a complication or a foreign factor. I wish Yani the Barofakis a success tomorrow. I hope it will come back and this Chamber at last once sincerely applaud a national effort that will work and I am sure it will.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u322	Thank you to the President of the Group of Independent Greeks and Minister for National Defence and for the advisability of the time. I'm calling on the Step...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u323	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u324	Please, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u325	Because there was a personal report, I just want to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u326	You have been able to listen to her because I have not even seen you in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u327	I got there and I heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u328	And the walls have ears.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Psarian says the walls also have ears. Rather, it defines itself as ‘the wall’. [[Laughing - applause in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Mr. President. On personal grounds, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u330	If you're done with intelligence, I can talk. If you have another joke to tell us, I'd rather go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u331	For three minutes, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u332	For much less. I want to tell the previous speaker something very simple that he probably doesn't know, that we're not all rich, and we don't all live from our fathers' money. There are people who worked in their lives. So these people who worked in their lives were obliged to work in many and large "magazies" whether that was "ELETERTERTERTYPTIA" whether it was "MEGA" or "902 Left to FM" or it was ERT. We're proud of this life. We're proud that what we've done, we've done it with our own hands. We haven't had any employees. In the political system, people have to realise that there is some time when the mood of people to get in and offer, to leave them easy, to leave what they have done, to what they have earned and to offer in the political system. This is difficult to understand by people who have only been servants of some in the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u333	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Theodorakis, I'm glad you're here to answer. So I'm telling you that I've worked for too many years, and if you say about a fortune my father had, he worked and paid taxes normally. But 20,000 euros of the show didn't take, Mr. Theodorakis. Nor did ERT employees get 20,000 euros, which you today want to exclude from work. That's the big difference. There were the selectors of the system, appointed by PASOK, who today supports you from the side and others who worked with 750 euros and found them fired, because some like you took the lion's share. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u336	The Minister of State, Mr. Nikos Pappas, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my highest honour and maximum responsibility for me as a member of this government of national and social salvation. The unprecedented people's support for the fight we are giving internationally, strengthens and brings us all, with the Prime Minister, in front of the sweetest one-way, the one-way to defend the will of our people and their dignity, the one-way to speed up and move quickly towards the implementation of our programme. I shall start immediately and say that in this context I would like to announce to the National Representation that in a month's time the draft law on the establishment of the National Radio and Television Act will come for discussion in Parliament. [[Applause]] The government has decided to open up ERT because our people have decided to open up ERT. The law on the establishment of ERT will come to the Greek Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. It will create a clear and constitutionally regulated legislative framework, without re-changing, without sloppy, without black on screens. The wound that has opened in the body of our democracy will be closed. We do not, however, want a return to the past, in the past, to astronomical wages for a few and select, in the past, outrageous expenditure, that is, in the past, where some were more equal than others. Note first: The law on the democratic and polygonal new ERT restores the unprecedented injustice experienced by our fellow citizens who worked at the ERT on the black day. The struggle teaches them dignity and requires immediate justice. The former ERT workers wish to return to the new ERT. Their re-entry will not be charged to the state budget as the financing of the new ERT from the reward fee continues. Note 2: NERIT budgets will be checked and deliberate ambiguities, discrepancies and revisions will be examined. For example, the ERT's last budget provided expenditure on electricity, gas, water and telecommunications 3,700,000 euros. The corresponding NERIT budget for 2014 predicted 12 million euros. NERIT's budget in 2015 is 13,800,000, while after the elections 8,000,000. Our political will is clear and consists of just one word: transparency. At the same time, within an annual framework for the reconstruction of the new organisation, we are leading to a democratic and independent ERT, based on the experience of long-term self-management, open to society, which will invest in culture and support young creators and youth, a ERT that acquires its own digital television network and restores the transmission of signals to the Greeks of the family. It has also been mentioned by other government ministers, and I would also like to stress that our government is determined to restore normality in the media sector. We will move in under the Constitution and the existing legislation. We are immediately implementing an adequate institutional framework for the control of the economics of broadcasting stations and other media. We are finishing with unguaranteed loans and opaque concessions. We are finally applying what the law has foreseen in relation to the opening of competitions for the open and transparent licensing of broadcasting. Information, information and training for the people are not a commodity, but a foundation for democracy and our Government will protect it and guarantee it. Ladies and gentlemen, a historic change has taken place in Greece. I say this because we hear that some in the New Democracy bet on the idea of parentheses. I will not dwell on the fact that these type of scenarios have been disproved in the past and they have simply remained scripts in the minds of those who have lost elections. I shall, however, make the assessment - and I address the New Democracy - that such a convenient narrative does not make it easier for the New Democracy party to understand exactly what happened in the elections that have passed us, how and why the new government enjoys the support of even people who have not voted for us, how and why the New Democracy has managed to break links with social strata that it has previously managed to express. It will not help you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, understand that the memorandum was a catastrophic choice and therefore redefinite your role in the new era. Now, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, it has now rejected the prospect of Greece staying in a situation of extreme inequality and poverty. How are you going to be positioned? Will you remain nostalgic to the memorandum, or will you move to the line of strong negotiation and claim? Will you let your pre-election commitment to the prerequisites be the last argument those who want to pressure Greece and lead it back to humiliation? I say this from this point of view, on the one hand, that the commitment of the previous government to the well-known failed programme, in these most important prerequisites, is the last argument with those we are currently discussing at international level. More specifically, the Greek Government has made a series of contacts. Did he do them well or should he have other priorities? The bills to deal with the humanitarian crisis will come to Parliament immediately. Will you vote for them or will you advise the government to do the good boy? The European People's Party will discuss the Greek Government's proposal for a bridge programme. What will the New Democracy's position be in there? Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the memorandum and, above all, the propaganda that accompanied it was based on a fundamental lie, that the memorandum is the loan that will save us. The truth is that the memorandum is the measures of poverty, it is the tool for Greece to become a country that is always unfair. It is the arrangements that allow pensions to be reduced, as the public is withdrawn from their support. The Memorandum is the humiliation of wages, the abolition of three years and collective agreements. It's the permanentity of high unemployment and the middle-class pricking. In other words, it is the net of the arrangements that is downwards from the growth train to half the population. It is the net of the arrangements our antimony program will cancel. Now that the New Democracy is in Opposition and there is no pressure from lenders there is no argument for extortion. Greece is the last country in the index of social justice in Europe and the first in the index of child poverty. We'd expect to hear some ideas about how we get out of there. Is the New Democracy's line to implement the election prerequisites? This is a vague question, which is not a question of tonight's night, where our Government is asking for the vote of confidence. It will follow us in political life and appreciate the attitude of all of us here. To conclude, I would like to make a point here: you are accusing us of criticising you in the election because you have asked for an extension of the loan contract and that we are now criticising you because you have asked for an extension for only two months and not for six months, as suggested by the partners. What's the truth? That what you requested is the extension of the loan contract for two months, with the absolute guarantee of the prerequisites, to build a thousands of extortion work, which thankfully for Greece did not work and to have some election spots that say we are being destroyed. There is, unfortunately, this constant for you. Whether the loan contract ended in December or February or June, the prerequisites were the steadfast favori, the permanent foundation of your argument. Let me remind you of a distinction: the Memorandum and the loan contract. You said it when you were in the opposition. Then, as a government, you forgot. Is it time for you to remember it again, now that you have returned to Anti-Policy and tell us - and we say it with absolute honesty - which of the prerequisites of the notorious e-mail need not be implemented? Because, gentlemen of the New Democracy, I am very afraid that if you insist on all the prerequisites being implemented and that this would be a responsible attitude - because we have heard a lot about responsibility in this three-day debate - then the only person who has remained an ally of this logic is Mr Soyble. I would therefore tell you that Greece has a voice, Greece is convinced, Greece will be back on its feet and with the confidence of the House this evening, Greece will become even stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u338	We thank the Minister of State for the impeccable respect of time, even though speeches in the House for the first time. The Chief of Staff Response has been asked for the floor, Mr. Antonis Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u339	Ladies and gentlemen, I am overcoming the flames of the Minister of State, which we have just heard, and I tell you clearly, from the very beginning, that anyone who loves his country wants the new government to succeed. But, precisely because we love Greece, Minister, we will not allow its European future and its European course to be jeopardised. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We, Mr Tsipras, will not do what you have done for two and a half years, from the position of Chief of the opposition officer. We will not tidy up your work. We will recognize any positive achievements you achieve. And I sincerely wish you success. We will not vote against everything. I wish you could give us the opportunity to support anything that is in the country's interests. But we won't let you take the country to the rocks. Much more so today it is revealed that you had no programme, that you had no real contact with reality. You've blackmailed early elections, you've won them with lies that now prove to be true. Know - and I tell you in advance, but I do not tell you with dissatisfaction - that the consequence of lying and error, that is, obsession with things that prove to be true to lies and errors, is not virtue. It's a defect of gravity. On the contrary, you can tell the other "you may have undermined me every step of your life, but I will support you, because that requires the interest of the place. Just look, don't hurt our country." And this is the virtue of the New Democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let me remind you where the country, which you received it and where it was when we received it. So, in the summer of 2012, we found Greece with 9.5% deficit for that year, with 7% recession, with government debts to private individuals amounting to 9.5 billion and with the country's credibility zero in the rest of the world. When you took over 15 days ago, Greece had almost eliminated the deficits and last year, 2014, closed the year with a significant primary surplus for a second year. Until recently, of course, your party questioned the primary surpluses we have made. For two and a half years you have called them 'virtual' and 'unexistent'. Now you accept them. So let me remind you that we have created surpluses and you have found them. We were the ones who, in two years' time, turned the huge deficits into surpluses. And if you stand now, it's because we gave you solid foundations. And do not cause, as has happened earlier in the House, who stands up and who is a slinger in the Eurogroup. I wish you the same as we were when you came in and especially when you came out of the Eurogroup. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because I have heard some doubts about last year's financial performance, 2014, to be clear. According to the official report of the European Commission, up to November, the surplus for 2014 was much above the target, i.e. 1.5% of GDP. Of course, as we have been warning many times, the uncertainty caused by the early elections, which you have caused, has led to a fall in revenue over the last two months. But only for the last two months and because of you. How many times didn't we warn you about this? Afterwards, I would like to say that you yourself on a television show have been arrogantly proclaiming that you will not pay HISBIA. Here's your statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u340	When was that, Mr. Samara?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u341	He was in April 2012. And you were giving this interview to Mr Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u342	HNPH had not come, there was no HNPH in 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u343	No ENVIRONMENT in 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u344	Shortly afterward, in another TV interview, you said you wouldn’t pay anyway, because you don’t have a home in your name. And if you want to see it, it's in an interview with Mr. Evas, 9-2-2013. Behold! [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But anywhere, Prime Minister, you have not called on the world to pay its tax obligations. And at the same time, at the same time as, at the same time as we are talking, members of your party and current Members of your House, invited people publicly not to pay ENPIA. If you want, there is also a reversal of such statements here. And I put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] By the end of December, especially the ENVY was paid normally. In January, during the election campaign, people paid less. And now, all of a sudden, you're calling him to pay his debts for the good of the country. For the sake of country to pay for them! Can I ask you something, Prime Minister: was our homeland then, Mr. Tsipras? Was our country different? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And yet: You found our country in recovery, not in deep recession like us. According to all the official figures from Europe - the Commission, in this case - in 2014, Greece experienced a 1% growth - you also receive that remember - and this is predicted for this year's growth of 2.5%, if no extraordinary events occur, which we all hope will not happen. Unemployment is now at 25.5%, as is two and a half years ago. Only now it's dropping steadily, when we've taken over it, it's slipping up. We're the ones who humiliated her. We reversed it. And I hope that you will not increase it again. And you're still talking about failure of our policy. The removal of 9.5% deficit and we pulled the country back into recovery and paid EUR 6.5 billion overdue debts and passed reforms that have never taken place in Greece and all this in two and a half years, with your continued undermining, seems to be a political failure, or is what you're saying unimportant? We found the country's debt out of control. We have supported the previous Papademos government with a nominal cut of 105 billion. Then our government cut 20 billion more with bond resecuritisation, much below the nominal price. You all opposed it. Now, you tell us that the country's debt is over 6 billion more than predictions. You are confusing the General Government's debt with the central government's debt. We don't have a debt increase. Roofing is a financial instrument. It's not a public debt. Don't get confused. The stream owes it to the state to itself. As far as the General Government is concerned, we are precisely in the forecasts. You also forget that we are still being charged as a debt of 10 billion from the balance of the Financial Stability Fund, the CFSF, which was not used to recapitalise the banks. We did not intend to use these and we would return them by also eradicating 10 billion debts. We were better than predictions. If you now use them to meet the needs you create, then yes, there will be a debt increase. Villages that will then also put you new prerequisites, because they will change their use and pass this debt on to new forced lending. Moreover, the country's real debt is still 16 billion lower, because 16 billion returns from the privatisation of the three banks are planned in the next two, three years. If you do not privatise them, you will be in conflict with the Eurosystem as a whole and, in addition, you will charge another 16 billion to the debt that they would otherwise erase. And since you are 'go on seeking' to tell you this: we from the demilitarisations that have taken place, we have achieved 7.7 billion revenues from which we have already collected 3.7 billion, and they go directly to debt reduction. In this year we were planning another $2 billion and perhaps another $3 billion. But if you cancel the privatizations that have taken place and do not move on to others, you will lose at least 6 billion and these will not be deducted from the debt, as we planned. So don't talk about debt. I'm on my way. The credibility of the country, in the time we were government, has been fully restored abroad. For two years the international press has presented the country's successes at all levels: both in budget and reform and recovery. They might have asked for more. Yes, to the reforms. But no one denied what happened. You, on the contrary, were always ironic. And now you want to build on these successes. We'll help you build if you really mean it. For now, though, I see you'd rather want to tear down what we've achieved. On this, of course, we will be across. And don't forget that in our governance, Greece's creditworthiness was constantly upgraded. Now on the fifteen days of your own government, all international houses are downgrading our country or preparing to do so. And don't underestimate that, because rating from the international houses is the ticket to go out to the international markets. And being able to get out on the international markets is all that can relieve you of creditors' pressure. In other words, we have received a very difficult situation, but we have handed over a country standing on its feet. You're picking up the country today. Look at her deliver her better than you found her. And know that since the parliament has decided not to elect a President of the Republic, the banking system has lost more than 15 billion. Investments that were ready to offer jobs to thousands of Greeks have been frozen. Our homeland is back on the international press front in a dramatic way. Greece's exit from the Eurozone has again become the subject of live discussion. And that hurts many times both our economy and our social stability. Why am I telling you all this? Why are you saying a number of theories about negotiation, theories that sometimes show a sympathetic - otherwise - naive and sometimes a very dangerous irresponsible one. So I will help you: When you take your country into a desperate situation, with 9.5% deficit and 7% recession, you have little room for it. We were there. So don't make us negotiating lessons based on what happened at the time. When you take over your country in such dramatic conditions, you have suffocating needs. You have to cover them. You need to strengthen her position so that you can then achieve something better. That's what we did. We've covered the immediate needs. We started improving the country's position. We spent immediately next year in surpluses. The tax evasion mechanism has improved, the one now, with the early elections, has been decoupled. Half the recession for 2013 was reduced and we spent 2014 in recovery. When we strengthened our negotiating position, we started asking for more to achieve more. We were able to reduce VAT on the focus, which they didn't even want to hear, until the suspension of auctions and for 2013 and 2014, which they did not want, but we did it too. We would, of course, extend it to 2015. We have achieved the reduction of HPAI, where they were demanding a collection of 3 billion, and we have downloaded it to 2.65 billion, and so the property tax has been reduced twice. We have achieved a 30% reduction in the solidarity levy, with 30% of the oil tax, maintaining aid for weak households. And of course, the hundred instalments and the regulation of the red loans that the troika did not want to hear, we imposed them, you did not vote today and you announced them. You announced what we've already done and, as you'll see, it's not the only one. We strengthened the country's negotiating position for another reason: because, in the meantime, we have successfully come to the markets, we have proved that we can lend ourselves as a normal country again. Now you're telling us about the e-mail Hardouvelis. You probably haven't read it because there are measures called for by the troika, but we've rejected them almost all. Besides, it wasn't the first time. And in the past few years, the troika has also called for great measures, which we have also rejected to the end. We have caught the targets, we have even exceeded them, we have distributed social dividends, but we have not taken any additional measures at that time. Take, if you want, a relevant document, confidential from November 2013, to see what we were asked for in 2014: an additional 1 billion billion austerity measures. [[At this point, the Chief of Staff, Mr. Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We didn't get anyone. And we caught the 2014 target. So don't talk to us about negotiation. And these reforms you have used them for two and a half years. And now Mr Varoufakis comes and tells us that he agrees with 70% of the measures in the memorandum. Yesterday he said it again, tonight he got it all mixed up again. In any case, I think he should have realised that we, after long negotiations for the latest assessment, have accepted less, officially not more than 63%. But tell me, which of this 70%, the right ones you recognize today, the now or the old ones, have you ever voted on in this House? For two and a half years, for this 70%, which you are now recognising, did you not tell us'sold','sold','soft-cattered', and did you never vote for one? And today you have done the "assomba" and you do not feel the need to say even an apology for what you slanderly say at our expense! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, you dragged the country into early elections with painful consequences. We were already on the market. However, once again political uncertainty has emerged, the spreads that until then were retreated and the markets for Greece closed. As he was approaching the election spectrum, the spreads were climbing, the stock exchange was sinking, the revenues were falling, our position was weakening, and finally, where we went out of the memorandum a year earlier, with a credit line even now I fear that you are leading us to a new memorandum of forced lending, unfortunately. And here's where you've gotten over yourself. You yourself, in the election, told us not to dare ever ask for an extension of the memorandum. And as I testify, you said that the exit would require a "block" of the regime rather than a monthly or six-month extension. [[At this point, the Chief of Staff, Mr. Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And here, from the House, yesterday you told us the same thing. The extension was considered to be disastrous. And now you complain that we have asked for an extension for only two months and not for six. What can anyone say here? Science now raises hands, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, in any case, if you want another four months to extend the memorandum, why are you not asking for it yourself? Are you afraid of your components? Are you afraid of the unveiling? And the others are to blame? Places where if we were to ask and take six months of extension, you would tell us today that we have your hands tied up for another four months. We know that well. And let me tell you this. We, asking for an extension, were preparing our next step for the place: get out of the memorandum, as quickly as possible, end of February. Not your next step that, if you ask, nobody knows. No one yet knows. You don't know this yourself here. Now you're looking for it. And you baptized it "bridge" or whatever you want. And look at the first consequences of your policy. The interest rate for stamps has already risen from 2% to 2.75%. On an annual basis, if they do not go up any further, this means more than 100 million additional costs per year, while last year from the reduction in interest rates, we had a budgetary reduction of 200 million. I put this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Chief of Staff, Mr. Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, the fact that the bank's liquidity is passed on from the European Central Bank, as it has so far been, to ELA means that the bank's costs are being borne - take care - by 800 million a year. And that will be the case with the market, and of course it will hit the recovery. You have already been informed publicly by the representatives of the producer bodies - even those who agree with your programme - that orders from abroad are being reduced or canceled, that the bail letters from the Greek banks have begun not to be accepted, that the country is reintroduced into a suffocating cord of economic isolation. And that means recurring again. But you think that's how you negotiate. I'm telling you, you're weakening the country like this, Prime Minister. We have strengthened Greece so that it has the least need for its lenders. Now you're bringing us back to their need. And I'm afraid you're going to clash with them from the position of absolute weakness. You are constantly talking - and I heard it before - about alleviating the humanitarian crisis. To come to an agreement once, Greece has experienced a serious social crisis, from which it has gradually started to emerge. Couldn't be any other way? There's nowhere in the magic button that you just turn it around to start running money on the streets. But the situation over the last year has really begun to improve. And if we stayed along this path, soon the improvement would feel much more. If you insist on giving everything to everyone, at the end you will not be able to give anyone anything, and you will oblige the country to take painful measures. When you give of what you don't have, then you're soon forced into multiple cuts. Such "false" benefits always lead to painful cuts. Last September, you announced the infamous programme of Thessaloniki, which you promised to finance - how? - with a debt haircut. That was your biggest lie. And now what are you going to do without a haircut? We warned you that debt haircut took place in 2012, when our debt was in private hands. Now our debt is in public hands, that is, we owe it to Member States, to organisations in the European Union. He can't get bored. That would bring us into conflict with everyone. You insisted. Your central theme in your election campaign was that you will require a debt cut. Now, everyone told you it couldn't be. And I guess Mr. Varoufakis understood it too. But with what I hear and from there, I don't take an oath. These days it was revealed that you've been negotiating since zero. However, the slightest picture of what you're going to do has not been given. The others have rejected your basic requirement for the haircut. And now you are talking in general about 'bridge agreement' or 'agreement - contract'. - Bridge or deal - contract! So far, you have been telling me all this, Mr. Tsipras. But anyway! And this is where a series of misunderstandings begin. I tell you without controversy, because our election campaign is over. I'm telling you because it happens to manage the fates of the place and why I don't want anything to happen to the place. Do you think the country's coming out of the euro is impossible? You're wrong. Of course, they can't legally drive you away, but politically and economically they can force you to leave on your own. They can put you under suffocating pressure, cause you to suffocate liquidity, making your departure from the Eurozone inevitable. We fear when we see such potential prospects. And it doesn't matter who the bad guys are. It's important that the evil doesn't happen in the country. It doesn't matter how they pay for what's wrong. It is important that what for them is just unpleasant, for us it may be devastating. I care about my country, too. And when I see someone taking me straight to the rocks, I don't have a problem with the rocks, the one taking her to the rocks, I'm trying to warn. You thought that once you put your demands in a dynamic way, you would begin to find allies in Europe. I'm afraid you're falling out. We heard a lot of comforting reasons from many, but eventually everyone told you "Go find them with your partners and the IMF". And while I say 'IMF', by you this word seems to be out of place. We'll talk it over sometime. But you thought you got support from D.C., but D.C. doesn't make any money. And a few 24 hours later, he sent you the message to find them with the partners and the IMF. You thought the southern European countries would support you. You're out. Portugal has made it quite clear, Spain has the same thing. The socialist President of France said that the Draghi movement - which was the beginning of the rings, the taps of liquidity - is absolutely legitimate. The Italian Socialist Minister, Mr. Renci, told you that Draghi's move is both legitimate and I listened. So, where's the alliance of the South? And then you destroy everything, for no reason, out of nowhere without anyone asking. One of your ministers calls Italy's best friend "defaulted country". The other one says there is plan B to borrow from Russia, China, America, and at the same time also makes calls hybrid to the Governor of the European Central Bank. But are these serious things? A strong relationship, Mr. Tsipras, takes years to get it fixed and only takes a few minutes to tear it down. The consequences of these behaviors don't you care? Proclaim austerity no longer goes. But no one wants one-sided austerity. But today many people are turning against you who have publicly denounced the policy of austerity. Why is that? Because all the rest of us when we say that we disagree with unilateral austerity, we mean that the economy must take breath, start to grow with investment, with reforms that hit bureaucracy, which promote competitiveness, with a guarantee of smooth liquidity, not a waste. The investments you're firing them out. Already, with what you had to say, all strangers left the competition for hydrocarbon exploration sites. Three international colossians, France, Italy, Spain, companies had taken files to bid and they all left after the elections. Congratulations! However, only one growth economy can overcome both the debt problems and the deficits and the social issues of poverty. But you did not say a word about your speech the other day, Prime Minister. One and a half hours of Programming Declarations and not a single word of growth and competitiveness. The problem is, therefore, that when you say 'austerity', you mean something different. You mean that there are still deficits and others to finance them. You mean not to get away from the public eye, not even those who were found with fake certificates. You mean that the incredible waste that was done in public health continues and that we have stopped and you have then voted against all the relevant measures. And that's austerity? And this has to be overthrown? You mean that there is no strict evaluation of staff in public when evaluation is done everywhere in the world. And that's austerity? You mean to stop and overthrow the privatisations that are taking place everywhere in the world. And the austerity privatizations are? You mean that there are no investments that could create thousands of jobs for the unemployed. And that's austerity? That is what you fought in the Opposition, and that is what you are stopping today as a government. What you're fighting is not an austerity, Mr. Tsipras. "Development" is what you're fighting for. I hope they will listen carefully to you abroad, not to live the loneliness of the isolate. However, I fear that you will now go to Brussels and achieve the impossible: to unite the European North and the European South against Greece. Watch it! And their difference was exactly that: in that some people wanted much more growth than others. Of course, you will answer that you have the command of the Greek people to change everything. Yes, but you assure everyone inside the country that you will not conflict with our partners, that you will not risk leaving the euro. And of course, such an order to provoke conflict has not been taken from the Greek people. Let us now see, ladies and gentlemen, some other parts of the Programmes. The increase in the minimum wage today is wrong. I'm afraid it'll cause unemployment to rise. Many small and medium-sized enterprises will fire some to increase others. Places where this option can be destroyed with a return to the blocks. Places that will lose income for the insurance funds. I am not saying that it will be taken as a casus belli by our partners, because that does not bother you. I have to tell you that among them there are nations that have borrowed us and which have a lower basic salary than us and now they will see from us that we increase it and also ask them to trim what they have previously given us. The abolition of HISVA from this year can only be done by overtaxing the middle class and the revenue you will lose, should be replaced by elsewhere. Where and how? Additional tax measures smell here too. To increase duty-free at 12,000, we are the first to want it. I wish! You just need to tell us where you're going to find the 2,500,000 at least that they're going to need. From other taxes? The restoration of the thirteenth pension for a million two thousand low pensioners is a measure that can be supported, and we also had it in the programme. I am no longer sure it can be done this year. Maybe next year it'll be easier. However, I must tell you that we have moved forward with greater reform of the social state, which has taken place in recent decades, the introduction of the minimum guaranteed income for all weak, vulnerable social groups and which has already been successfully launched pilots. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Our priority was to be generalized throughout Greece. That's why I didn't hear you say anything. You're gonna give it up? Will you proceed with this? And what's all this money going to be? You, of course, have given assurances that you will keep the programme of Thessaloniki. But you announced some measures for now and some for later. In everything, however, I'm telling you with zero costing, with zero timetable. You have imposed on your program. You are then asking for the budget target to be changed for this year, from 3% to 1.5%. All right! But remember that everything that takes us off the 3% surplus target for this year has to be covered by forced lending, with a new memorandum. Because 3% is also about the planned full interest coverage, which can no longer be covered by Greece alone, as we had planned. So, should we again borrow, plus what they should lend us to repay loans and bonds, which are due this year, which we are planning to cover from where? On the markets. Plus, what they are counting on the budget gap this year, which I have to tell you, has grown from the bump to the revenue caused by the last elections. All of this means that you will be obliged to make a new compulsory loan, i.e. a new memorandum. And if you finally accept - because nobody knows - the extension of this programme, then you will also come to an assessment of the old memorandum and new prerequisites for the new memorandum. Because, be careful, whatever you'll charge to the account this year will immediately find it in front of you in restrictive measures and in new hard austerity. So, clear words: National dignity is not the right to ask for the others to lend you for an infinite loan and then mock your debt and lend you back. That's called a national fantasy. And to be fair with you, I would like to praise something you said yesterday that the surpluses strengthen the country's negotiating position. We fully agree, Mr Tsipras. That's what we've been telling you for years. That's what we've been doing for years. We have created primary surpluses, which you are now vaporizing. And we did not hear a word of recognition that the surpluses were obviously created by the sacrifices of the Greek people, but by insistence of our own government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] National dignity, then, is to make surpluses, get your country into no need for this loan. And you made another dangerous mistake. You insist that our debt is not sustainable. Listen, do you think that the sustainability of the debt depends only on its nominal amount and its relation to GDP? Wrong! It depends on a lot of things. And by how much a country has a debt - its nominal size - and its ratio with GDP and how high it pays for the years and when it ends, that is when we know about it. Because it is another thing to be forced to pay off 50 billion in three years and to pay 5% interest, i.e. 2.5 billion a year, which will drown you, and it is quite different to pay 0.5% a year, i.e. 250 million only and you have to pay it in twenty-five years. That won't choke you. It's easy to forget. So we have a nominal debt of 50 billion in both cases. One is unsustainable and the other is absolutely viable. And finally, sustainability depends on whom you owe it. If you owe the markets, the risk of bankruptcy is higher, and if you owe your partners the risk of bankruptcy is much smaller. So because all this affects the sustainability of the debt, we methodically, all, ladies and gentlemen, have changed it. We cut the nominal debt, we cut 105 billion - the biggest haircut ever in history -, we cut another 20 billion later with a debt buy-back at a lower price, we converted the vastly large proportion of our debt from private debt to states and international organisations and reduced the interest rates from 5% to over, which were four years ago, at less than 2% today, while - look - the interest rates on our debt with countries - members of the European Union are below 0.7% a year. Go find them somewhere else! We have also ensured an extension of repayment from six years which most Member States have Member States in over sixteen years, on average, for Greek debt. And finally, the most important thing: in the November 2012 agreement, we succeeded, when Greece would catch its budgetary targets, to give us even lower interest rates for much more years in the future and pay even further in the future. That was the so-called debt relief we had achieved. And this relief of debt allows you to negotiate later smaller surpluses for the next few years. We've opened him up for this. We've already negotiated. We have already caught the conditions for debt relief, and this will allow for lower surpluses in the years to come. And don't forget that with the exit from the memorandum that we were taking and the credit line that we were going to take, and the role of the Troika would then completely change. Its presence, we had already agreed, would be much more discreet and limited for a few more months. I'm afraid you'll bring her back, probably under another name. But there is no forced lending, i.e. a memorandum, without strict surveillance. You can call it a contract instead of a memorandum, you can call it something else instead of a troika. But, whatever you call it, that will be the reality. So you come and give us debt-negotiation lessons. You are literally denying the greatest debt restructuring in the history we have achieved. You leave the sure road and go hunt chimes at risk of losing everything. You went out and said your election poem. You told them about a new nominal debt haircut. You've collected a "no" from everyone. You told them about a debt conference. They all told you a dry 'no'. You told them about perpetual or unforgettable bonds, the so-called perpetuals. But is that possible? You recovered, Mr. Tsipras, from the depths of history a tool used by the United Kingdom to meet its needs in the light of the seven-year war in the middle of the 18th century. Britain then used it again to cover its expenditure in the Napoleon Wars at the beginning of the 19th century and finally, at the beginning of the 20th century, to cover its enormous expenditure at the end of World War I. 'Wow', as Mr Varoufakis would say! [[Laughers]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This thing has not been used by states for many decades. None of you have been busy. That they are using it today only highly indebted companies in countries such as China and Indonesia, but at 8% and 9% interest rates, you would obviously not know that. That in these modern-day perpetual bonds, their interest grows after a few years and becomes inconsistent, I guess you didn't know that either. And that proposal of course fell into the void. Because what I said to you and we have negotiated, 'debate debt', is much better. It gives a time extension to the terminations, but not forever, it gives lower interest rates for more years. And it's possible, it's not a firework. Come and do it and leave these barren wanderings to the depths of financial history. You say today that you will be promoting a reform programme. Good for you. But the reforms that have already been made, you're going to overthrow them. No one's with you on this. That is why you are in danger of conflicting with everyone. You say that you will emphasise the hit on tax evasion. Well done, and with you. But what measures we took to hit tax evasion, you voted against them. You're saying you're going to hit corruption. Well done, and with you. But whatever measures we have taken against corruption in the public sector, you and you have voted against them and now you are pulling them out. Our government has already voted, by taking the best international practices - ask 'LAZARD': two specialised audit centres, one for companies and natural persons of great wealth, a large debt collection unit and a home affairs agency to deal with corruption. You then did not vote for them, but the day before yesterday you announced them, I would remind you, Mr Tsipras. You have announced measures for intragroup transactions. But there is already legislation in place. We've been through it. You didn't vote for it. Now you're just announcing it! You're still talking about smuggling fuel. We've been law-enforcement. The State already collects an additional billion a year and we ran all the tenders for the supply of the necessary material. Very soon we'll have the equipment to do. You have now remembered and announced it. You're saying you're going to hit the complication. With you. I would remind you that for today, justice has put several grandchildren in prison. You'll see exactly what you're going to do. You still talked about committees of inquiry. No problem. Make all the committees of inquiry you want, Mr. Tsipras. We, since they're well-established, have nothing to fear. I would remind you that in the two years 2010-2011, the government then made six committees of inquiry against us. They searched everything, even cases that had been searched before, and found nothing. If you want to do six and sixteen Committees of Inquiry, we have no problem. Be careful, though, not all fireworks of disorientation, for your own dead ends. But you also made a series of announcements in here about things we've already done. The social bill for power in households that have a problem already exists. First home auctions are not done because we have banned them. The citizens' contact with the public has been minimized, in some cases impressive. Haven't you heard that 95% of tax returns are submitted and electronically corrected by the house? Haven't you heard that thousands of certificates are being issued electronically? For the dozens of new electronic services to citizens and businesses, for insurance, for work, have you not heard? For the e-State state that we and we voted for and implemented it? Foreign organizations recognized it. They have therefore upgraded Greece's position on the global ranking of competitiveness and you have not taken it as something you will do. The hitting of bureaucracy with the single licensing authority that we have introduced, haven't you heard? The new law to simplify procedures for the approval of investments, haven't you heard of him? That all led to the country being upgraded by a hundred and eleven positions in the OECD's international ranking within two years to start new businesses, don't you know that? So I tell you to find out. There is already. And yet, like all the others, you and that is when you voted against it. And yet again your announcement is astonished that we have already made it: the financing of the insurance funds from the country's natural resources is already a law of the state, Mr Tsipras, which you, of course, did not vote on at the time. And since you did not vote for him then, today you announce him, while at the same time you are prosecuting foreign companies that were preparing to make offers to get permission to investigate. You're a nice reformers! As the new Minister of Education, who said yesterday, not only will asylum be restored to universities, but that it abolishes the standards of schools, because - says - "excellence" - if ever possible! - Looks like a retina! Yes, you are nice reformers! Not to mention your demagogy that, for the first time, you are hitting the privileges of the political system. You're joking! I remind you that our government's first decision, in July 2012, was the scanning cost reduction for the operation of the political system. For the first time, the remuneration of all state officials, such as the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, all the members of the Ministerial Council, the MPs, the Secretary-General, the high-ranking officials in the administration, has been reduced. Some fell to up to 50%. And even significantly reduced the prerogatives of the Members who existed before. We've been doing this ever since. And of course you didn't vote for them. Two words about the borrower's loan and German revaluations. Our government for the first time faced what no one touched until then: the quantification of the Greek government's claims. It did so methodically and the Commission's conclusion is already on the Legal Council of State. We have also made this two years ago. The highest security prisons we have created seem to be going to abolish too. Why? To make it easier to escape? The relationship with convicted terrorists and dangerous criminals? [[Noise in the Chamber]] I seem to have touched some sensitive, thin strings of a particular component, a particular component. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All countries in the world have special prisons for such criminals. Greece has just acquired. Why do you abolish them? Finally, don't think about playing with the country's international rites and alliances. We built them with a lot of trouble. We kept them in difficult circumstances. We absolutely need them for the safety of our country. You have the right to play in dice! Command to change the country's alliances you did not take from the Greek people. We in the difficult two years, with Europe-Russia relations constantly getting worse, managed and kept the balance. Be careful not to overthrow them. We managed to strengthen Greece's position both in NATO and in Europe, while creating new strategic alliances with countries outside NATO and outside Europe, from Egypt to Israel and from China to Azerbaijan. If you want to continue this, we're absolutely together, we'll support you. But from some of your first moves, unharmed, you've shown that you'll also be hurting the traditional alliances and the new ones will be ruined. And one important thing: We started the big contest for the 20 marine land of the EOZ. It is necessary here to have strong international applications from companies, for reasons that everyone understands. These companies started coming. You've kicked them out now. Watch it. Be careful, because proud Greece is a Greece with supports everywhere. An isolated Greece is not proud, it is not even safe, it is in immediate danger. And I don't want to say anything else about this, but you're accountable from now on for what happens. And one more thing: Do not confuse the struggles of freedom of our nation, the heroic "no" of our fathers, with the modern anguish for more loan. You needing all the time from borrowers is not freedom, Mr. Tsipras. It's a dependence. Stop asking for borrowing is both dignity and freedom. I'm afraid you're taking us to a new loan. Of course, your Programming Declarations will not be passed, because they at best testify to your confusion and to the worst of your intention of pushing the country into conflict with everyone and in isolation from everyone, to lead it to adventures that we have done and we will do everything we can to prevent them. I repeat that we will not undermine you, as you have done on every step of our life. Of course, we are not going to allow you to take Greece to the rocks. If you change your policy in time, we will be next to you to correct what can be corrected. But you should know that the longer you're late, the longer the bill gets bigger. The people will pay him, but you will charge him, as you will be charged if you proceed to what is heard about the drachma elections or a referendum. So where are you going with this? In a break? In a referendum? I hope not. It'll take us back a hundred years. And only the word "referendum", which some of your people started calling it, reminds of the great crisis caused by another Prime Minister, George Papandreou, in November 2011. The drachma phantom then threatenedly over the country for a long time. We did more than one, a year and a half to get rid of this ghost and bring Greece together. I don't suppose you'd keep in mind bringing us back the same. Don't even think about it! Tell your people who are talking about it to cut it off. Because something I heard from your Minister, I tell you that I am going to Brussels tomorrow for the European People's Party Summit. I'm not going there as your opponent. I'm going to support Greece, like I've always done. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Make sure you don't give weapons to the enemies of Greece. I believe that together we can prevent the worst - I honestly tell you - but you must also want to do so. I conclude with something I believe deeply: the New Democracy has offered a great deal to the country's recovery. We will continue to offer the country. The New Democracy is a security and stability guarantee for the country's European course, even for those who did not vote for it. That role will continue and we will play it in full, because responsibility is not weakness, it is power. Loveing your homeland and serving it from any place of virtue is not a flaw. Political responsibility is for the strong, it is not for suckers. And finally it rewards and let it be tested temporarily. Mr Tsipras, I do not say this as a controversy with you. I'm telling you, I'm gonna help you, and I'm gonna give you a lead. There is an important part of society that is not enough for him to speak. He wants specific answers. Where are you going with this? What are you going to do with the country's obligations? How are you going to fund them? How will you keep Greece in the euro if we do not meet our obligations and if there is no liquidity? You should be aware that in this House there are pro-European forces which will not let you derail our country's position from Europe. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you don't get the scene straightaway clear, there's a chance that you'll become a bad man under your own responsibility. You invited us to support you, that is to say to do what you did not. We will do this, Mr. Tsipras, so long as your compass does not show the rocks. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You know, ladies and gentlemen, you're yelling - and you're new most - there's something worse than 'assuming', taking the country straight to the rocks. That's what you remember. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] If we support you - I say this again - it is because we do not want to go into unforeseen and dangerous situations for the country and why we must not let the sacrifices of the Greek people go to waste. Once you manage the fates of the country, if you show responsibility, you will find more support from us than you imagine. But if you continue on the path of irresponsibility, then our resignation and I will do everything in their power not to pay for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u345	Thank you to the Chief of Officer's Representation, Mr. Antonis Samaras. I did not want to interrupt you at all, respecting the role of Officer Opposition as the fourth institutional pillar of the civilisation. You know, of course, that under the Rules of Procedure the debate must be concluded at 24.00 p.m. The time is 23.30. You spoke fifty-two minutes and it was the first time you asked for the floor. The procedure to be followed is as follows: on the part of the Government, it remains its first Minister, Mr Butsis, and the Vice-President of the Government. Of course the debate will be closed with the Prime Minister's speech. In accordance with parliamentary practice and the previous one, the debate can be concluded if the Prime Minister's speech begins before 24.00 p.m. Then, with its completion - I am not, of course, going to interrupt the Prime Minister - we will proceed to the roll-call vote. I therefore give the floor to the first Minister, Mr Nikos Voutsi for seven minutes and to the Vice-President of the Government for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u346	Madam President, I will make it easier. There is an attempt to coordinate and reconnect five ministerial portfolios, those of the interior, of the Civil Protection, of the Administrative Reformation, of the Migration Policy and Macedonia - Thrace and of course with equality notes, etc. I had prepared, as I had to say, for there are too many bodies waiting for the government's programming declarations - a normal speech on these issues. I will make it easier: I will submit the speech in the Minutes for publication so that the Vice-President of the Government and the Prime Minister can speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much Mr Voutsi. I would also like to ask the remaining Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys who have not spoken and who have been kind enough to give up the right to submit their speeches on the Minutes. I really think this is a new government model that is being created. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, Mrs Urania Antonopoulou, presents for the minutes the pages of her speech, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] I give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister for ten minutes. Mr Drasakis, before I give you the floor, I would like to ask Mr Samaras in relation to his document No 4 on the Minutes and concerning the measures requested in 2014: because this is not complete - that is to say, it does not mention senders and recipients - for the completeness of the procedure and for the complete information of the House, I would ask him to submit the full document by the end of the procedure. Mr. Drasakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Madam President, and good luck in your difficult task. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people, by their vote on 25 January, voted in favour of the change of government and change of policy. But at the same time I think of a new social and political morality, a new framework of values that will support and support the collective and individual dignity of people, mutual respect, equality and justice. He voted for a new social contract which will govern both our collective lives and our relations with other peoples and, above all, with the other peoples of Europe, an integral part of which we were, we are and will be, Mr Samaras. The attitude of the Greek people following the elections, the spontaneous manifestations of solidarity with the new government show that the need for a new political and social life based on the values of cooperation, solidarity, justice, is perceived as a need from wider majority parts of society not only by those who voted for SYRIZA or ANEL, that is, parties that support the present government. The elections of 25 January therefore constitute the beginning not only for a new government but also for a wider redeployment of political and social forces, with the aim of overcoming the crisis of representation and trust that characterises the Greek society. This crisis of representation, confidence and ultimately legitimacy does not only characterise our political and party system, but also characterises the state, Parliament, trade unions, institutions, all forms of social representation. In other words, overcoming this crisis of representation and trust is one of the preconditions, is also an objective and means at the same time to achieve the break with the past, the democratic intersection and the cultural regeneration of our country, the ones on which we can successfully design productive reconstruction, the ecological transformation and the profound change of state, the transition to a new, strong, fair and long-term sustainable model of production, the model of social and economic organization, in addition to the bankrupt patterns of neoliberalism, stateism and autocracy. That is why our Government will act in a spirit and manner open to new ideas and to forces that will want to contribute to their joint effort, with their actions, even their pushing criticism. The phase that we are currently experiencing, ladies and gentlemen, is a phase of intense action, but also of thought and thought. The question of how we will proceed from now on is related to how we got here. I have heard Mr Samaras today describe a virtual reality by really insulting all those unfortunate people who experience unemployment, social exclusion, tolerance and insecurity caused by the crisis and exacerbated the Memorandums. Five years with the Memorandums the structural problems of Greek society remain explosive. We are talking about problems before the memoranda and chronic diseases which have, however, deteriorated. The list of these problems is now dominated by the unjust and inefficient state, the enormous and growing inequalities, the low VAT collection and tax evasion in general, the complexity and corruption, the dismantling of critical social services sectors. But that's not all. New ones have been added. The initial crisis would say that someone was mutated, multiplied, took new forms. Financial deficits have indeed been eliminated. However, this was done in a way that the deficits were actually transferred to society. Unemployment, red loans, public debt, poverty, social exclusion, hunger pensions, social insecurity, dangerous demographic trends. I want to be clear: the crisis was before. It required treatment, but the drug in many cases proved to be worse than the disease. Some say that the results could have been better, if there was a more consistent application of the memorials or if the hierarchy of the targets was better. We have a different view. Without overlooking other problems, we believe that the basis of the problem was the same model of the memorandum, its own internal logic, the assumptions on which it was based. A first mistaken assumption was that a debt crisis like ours could - supposedly - be dealt with by austerity and internal devaluation. Tragically, criminally wrong. The truth is that a debt crisis can only be tackled with growth, redistribution and early debt restructuring. The second mistake was that the Greek state's problem was - supposedly - a quantitative problem. The truth is that the Greek state's problem was and is mainly a problem of quality, a problem of social justice and social inefficiency. The third mistake was that the problem of competitiveness was - supposedly - a question of wages. We have heard it today indirectly from Mr Samaras. The truth is that the problem of competitiveness in our country is mainly a structural issue, a question of the structure of production, of the low scientific basis, of the low value added and of the unequal distribution and management of resources. This explains the paradox: While many targets and some of the memoranda measures in another context could work positively, within this logic and this model they have had these solvent effects that I have just said. That is why we have been opposed to their memoranda and logic from the outset. We have anticipated the consequences - perhaps not to the extent that has finally happened - and we have spoken from the outset about the need to replace the memoranda with a programme to rectify society, to transform the state and to rebuild the economy. And the reason we said this was not only the results that are now so visible, but it is precisely the wrong and class-based theoretical and ideological basis on which the memorandums were based. And we don't say that for the first time. This was said by the current Prime Minister - and then head of the opposition officer - in February 2012 by letter to the then President of the Commission, Mr Barroso. There we said - by this letter - that 'the memos lead to destruction, we call for them to be replaced with a recovery plan with a different logic'. The same message was conveyed to all Europe's leaders: "The programme has failed. They must be replaced by another programme of different logic.’ Neither the renewal of the Memorandum nor the extension of the existing Memorandums is a way out. The solution is a new credible agreement, a new contract, which was so ironic that Mr Samaras was so ironic, an agreed smooth transition plan in a situation where Greece will be a member of the euro and the euro area in a sustainable way, in terms of dignity and parity. We are working in this direction with good faith, so that there is mutually beneficial agreement as soon as possible and we are fully convinced that this is not only necessary, but also possible. I will now explain why we need this transition because we need a transitional agreement, a 'bridge' agreement as Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Varoufakis have said. An interim agreement is necessary, firstly, to negotiate the major debt issues, the budgetary objectives and the development and financing of it. Secondly, to ensure that these 11 billion are available to us and to discuss together how we can best use them and, of course, to ensure a smooth flow of liquidity towards the banking system and to the economy. I would like here to note to this risky retro, Mr Samaras, the former Prime Minister, that, however, Mr Samaras, we had elections with open banks, and SYRIZA is government and the statements are in the banks. I'm not sure everyone wanted that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The need for a transitional agreement therefore exists. What duration can such a deal have? It could last for a few months. We're open to talk about it. Until June, until August, it can be discussed. What content can this new agreement have? It is clear that this transitional agreement cannot be an extension of existing Memorandums. The time of memorials and troika belongs to the past. Any loose ends of the past should not trap the future. Politics is not done with ideology, obsessed or ignoring the will of the peoples. Any discussions and agreements will only be productive if they are mentioned in the future. Nor can the transitional agreement match our programme, there must be a common basis. The transitional agreement can, in our view, be at least four topics soon. Firstly, an extension of the loan contract and a guarantee of liquidity for as long as the agreement lasts. Secondly, a set of reforms and other policy measures that will be agreed jointly. From the study we have done long ago we have seen that there are fields and issues of common interest, such as reduction of tax evasion, transparency, social efficiency of administration, etc. There can therefore be a minimum programme of mutual acceptance, which can be the cornerstone of this transitional agreement. Thirdly, an agreement on the process and how to negotiate debt on either multilateral basis, as we propose, but also on a bilateral basis. The opening of the debt negotiations should become part of the transitional agreement and not be referred to the bells as they have been in the past. Fourthly, too, this transitional agreement must include a understanding of the conditions of transition from the old to the new, from the Memorandum of Understanding to the Memorandum of Understanding and the treatment of any technical or legal problems. Once such an agreement is reached, the pressure on the liquidity front will be drastically reduced. This will create a favourable climate for the major changes that we want to make within the country. I ask, then, who does the reproduction of tension and financial instability favour? Do those who do not want these changes to take place even though they talk about the elites and the oligarchies that exist in Greece? Our proposal seeks the common place, the mutual benefit. What is the aim of the monotonous, hard statements that deny the social reality of Greece and deny the outcome of the elections? Is such a deal possible? As I have already said, it is possible, in our view, on condition that stable democratic principles are respected and that common sense prevails. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government is ringing.]] I'm gonna need a few minutes, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to and reading speeches by many MPs and even party leaders, it seemed to me that it is perhaps unaware that the memorials include not only policy measures, but also commitments from which if we do not get rid of our country will be condemned to an indefinite austerity, to an indefinite economic misery and deterioration. We are a society with our future trapped, undermined and mortgaged by these restrictions. I shall speak very briefly because there is not enough time. The first restriction is that we are obliged, on the basis of the previous governments' commitments, to have an annual surplus of 4.5%, 7.5-8 billion, which should all go to the service of the old debt. I ask everyone and all of you. Is there anyone here who sees this objective as feasible? Is there anyone who thinks we can repay the old debt with any surplus and at the same time invest and make new growth, which we are talking about? This objective must be radically renegotiated. Secondly, we have heard whether the debt is or is not sustainable etc. Is it possible to discuss whether or not a debt, which is at 180% of national income and which is a foreign debt and not an internal debt, is it a problem or not? Here, then, we think there should be a sluggish front in order to have a radical negotiation with regard to the amount of debt, but above all, as to how to repay any debt we decide to pay. Are we going to continue to pay the debt by using surpluses that we will produce by cutting social costs or by introducing new taxes? Shawlock of Shakespeare was more honest. He was asking for direct meat and blood. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Or will this be what the government proposes, a deal where we will pay the debt with a growth clause, that is, we will pay in line with the growth we will have in line with the nominal increase in national income? Ladies and gentlemen, my references to these issues are references to the fact that these issues are not being discussed, but we will have them before us and if we do not find a solution to these problems, as much as to the end of austerity, we will not be able to have this result that we want, precisely because these restrictions will exist. I would like to conclude, with the President's permission, with a more general thought. Many times in the daily lives we all live, events occur which only retrospectively determine their importance. So today we are living a historic time, not only from the crisis and the collapse of outdated models, but we are living in a crisis that will eventually give birth to new models and new models of social organisation, as has happened in the past. In this sense, therefore, this is an opportunity to deal with the deficits of the past, to cover this deficit of modernisation, but through tackling the current social problem of unemployment, social security and social exclusion. In this way, a new model could be established in Greece and the other countries of the European South, combining promoted forms of democracy, social self-energy, social justice on a strong basis of common goods, a model of sociocentric, which would provide dignity and confidence in society, hope for the people, optimism in the new generation. Thus, Greece from an animal of austerity and destruction could become the scope of pioneering ideas and policies and the benefit would not only be for us. The world would acquire an outbreak of safety in an insecurity area and the ageing Europe could reconvene through the coexistence of different development models within it. Let no one hurry to say that these are utopias, because there are utopias that are realistic. They are the ones whose implementation depends not on supernatural powers, but on the unity and collective action of ordinary people in Europe, Greece and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Vice-President of the Government, Mr Yannis Drasakis. For the full immunity of the procedure, I am tabling the letter of 10 February 2015 from the Secretary-General of the Government to the end of 24.00 hours in accordance with Rule 141(3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u350	That concludes the position of the members of the government and I give the floor to the Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in the history of our country, a government, before even taking a vote of confidence in the Greek Parliament, has to deal with such a tough and difficult negotiation concerning the country's own position in the European and international matters. It is the first time that a government, before it even takes over well, accepts so strong pressures and blackmails, but at the same time it is the first time in the modern history of the Greek state that a government, even before taking the vote of the Parliament's confidence, has won an unprecedented confidence and acceptance from the Greek society. [[Vibrant applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The results of the recent polls prove an unprecedented conflict and acceptance of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people in the negotiating strategy of the Greek Government. And you know, we don't have any more power. We are not being supported by strong factors inside and outside the country. Our only support is the trust of the Greek people. [[Vibrant applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you know, we have a responsibility to broaden it, but we are very happy to see acceptance and confidence among other European peoples too. He has never been a Greek Prime Minister before to be in Austria and to be in the middle of demonstrations of the support of Austrian citizens in Greece and the fighting Greek people. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] And some people tell us about isolation. Some tell us for isolation where Greece was the pariah of Europe, where the climate was the Greeks, who lived beyond their capabilities. Now the climate is that the Greek people have suffered unfairly, the Greek people are struggling and the Greek people must succeed, and the Greek Government must succeed, in the name of all the European peoples who want a better future, a better prospect, outside the catastrophic austerity. It fills us, you know, self-confidence, it fills us with strength and determination, this support for the tough, indeed, negotiation with the partners. Because tomorrow at Eurogroup will not be Yanis Varoufakis, tomorrow at Eurogroup Greece will be. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] Tomorrow at Eurogroup will be together with Yiannis Varoufakis ten million Greek women and Greeks, who have hope, for a better perspective for this place. But together it will be the one and a half million citizens who lost their jobs, the unemployed, these four and a half years, the two and a half million poor, the three hundred thousand young people and young people who left the country. They'll all be there. They'll be there and, you know, they'll be the ones pulling us off the sleeve and they'll be the ones asking for us, they'll be demanding we don't go back, once again, with the head torn. I want to assure you that where we are, there is no way back. Greece cannot go back to the time of memorial and submissiveness. That is what everyone in Europe has seen. There's no way back. Because if it were there, that would mean accepting that in the Europe of great conquests, in the Europe of culture and democracy, the principle of popular sovereignty no longer exists. If we accept, as some people ask, that we continue from the point of view of the previous government, it will be like accepting that democracy has no meaning, no power, and indeed - where? - where he was born. It would be like accepting that it makes no sense to hold elections in this place. Let the troika technocrats come here to understand the government benches and ministries. But who can today in Europe ask us for this? Who can ask a government with a fresh mandate but also with unprecedented social acceptance and support to accept that its people are not sovereign? And really, who would help such a development in Europe? Some think it would help the forces that ruled the place and co-signed the memos. They're making a huge mistake. Those who invest in parentheses are making a huge mistake. You have to understand. On the 25th of January you were not simply defeated by election. We did not have a simple governmental rotation, as we had all the previous years. On the 25th of January we had the end of a political regime. We have had the end of the old establishment that has been ruling for forty years since the Migration and then well and bad for all these years - we do not have the responsibility of the last destructive country for five years. So those who deceive and invest in a possible failure of the new government, namely those who invest in Greece's failure, should know that they are blind. The failure of the new government will not open the way for their own return. Let them understand it well. Whatever happens, they already belong to history. And history will judge them strictly. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The question, however, is that what they invest in, namely a failure of the government, only the enemies of democracy can favour, only the enemies of democracy can open the way, both here and in Europe. And this - you know - we do not have the right to let it happen in our country, we do not have the right to let it happen in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a historic turning point and not just for the country, but at a historic turning point for Europe. We're on a crossroad. In the next few days, what will be judged is whether Europe can maintain its cohesion and move forward by changing or whether the Europe of democracy and solidarity, the Europe of values and peoples we have once known, will give its place in a Europe of terror, division, punishment and, ultimately, generalised destabilisation. And in this crisis, the crisis in Europe, small Greece plays the decisive role in defending once again strong universal values. It is small Greece that today defends the United Europe, democracy and solidarity and comes to a crucial negotiation, aimed at an agreement that will liberate positive forces and relieve the European continent. Unlike many of our partners who, in the name of political and only intentions, seem to want to play with fire, play with the division and destabilisation and play with the expansion of Euroscepticism across the European continent, we are coming to this negotiation with all positive energy. We are the most pro-European partner in a position to remain in a Europe that is equal and fair to its people, not in a Europe that has tenants and owners. We're all roommates and joint owners in our common home. Obviously, we respect the special economic and political weight of some of our partners who are undoubtedly the economic engine of our Union, such as Germany. We warn them, however, that the leaders conquer their hegemony not by extermination and punishment but by solidarity and persuasion. This is how European Germany has managed to become the leader in Europe. However, European Germany is not a German Europe. So those who bet on power and conflict will soon realize that they are committing a tragic mistake. They don't hurt the weak. They're hurting themselves first. They are wounded first of all by Europe itself. They are hurting our common European future. So I feel the need, ladies and gentlemen, at this point to make a few things clear. The Greek Government is negotiating hard, but it is not alone against everyone. In just a few days we managed to turn the issue of small Greece into not only a European issue, but a global issue. The country has acquired a voice internationally, acquired status, international authority, dignity, a word that we have forgotten in recent years. I want to repeat once again that within just a few days there is a negotiation that, unfortunately, has never been made by previous governments, that is, from 2009 onwards. But, look out, we don't negotiate the memorandum. The memorandum was annulled by its own failure and, of course, by the popular verdict of our people. Faithful to what we have explained and committed in the run-up to the elections, we are negotiating the loan contract. The Memorandum is not the loan contract. The memorandum is the legal and political imprint of neoliberalism, austerity and internal devaluation. These are the laws - over four hundred fifty - which bombed Parliament and the Greek society in recent years, with urgent bills, legislative acts, and procedures that were blatantly violating the articles of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The memorials were ultimately not the medicine for exiting the crisis, but the opportunity asked for by markets and financial capital to impose in Europe the structures, industrial relations and model that they have long wanted for decades now. Because all the things that have been implemented within a few years in Greece, in an international experiment, we have known them for decades as the basic concepts and views of neoliberalism at international level. The memorials were the harsh austerity and suffocation against equality and social justice, it was the instrument used to continue the economic oligarchy and corruption to maximise its profits, while society, workers, pensioners were impoverished. Finally, it was the opportunity of the social state, health, education, public property to pass into the hands of certain interests, and at the same time the opportunity for the Europe of Enlightenment to become a social and working middle ages. Ladies and gentlemen, the loan agreement we are negotiating is not the memorandum. It is the agreement with the partners for financial support to enable Greece to fulfil its credit obligations. For Greece was indeed given the largest loan in modern European history. But this money was not given to support our country's productive or social base. The vast majority of this money was given to support the Greek banking system, so that the European financial system would remain stable and also, in order to return to the lenders, that is, to enable our country to repay them its debt obligations. In short, the loan contract has a mutual interest both in Greece and in creditors. It is not an act of charity towards Greece, but an act of solidarity and responsibility for our common European future. What, then, are we negotiating and what are we now asking of the partners? We are negotiating this contract to stop being accompanied by sanctions for the Greek people and ultimately disastrous for the Greek economy, not only because these conditions, this alleged drug, eventually made the patient worse than the disease itself, but because if we continue, in the same vicious circle of austerity and recession, we will constantly be in the need to recycle loans, new loans in order to repay the old loans. We want to end this vicious circle. We do not want to burden European taxpayers with new loans for Greece in the bimonthly. So we do not go to this negotiation in terms of selfishness, with a logic of 'pay us, because we want to!', but with a reasonable and realistic approach to a mutually beneficial and beneficial solution. And what else do we negotiate through the loan contract? We are negotiating the crucial debt issue, the terms and the procedures for repayment of debt, first and foremost because the debt issue is directly related to the so-called 'financial margin', with the possibility of an economy having space, margin and return to growth. With a debt which has reached 180% of GDP and with a constant obligation to stir up the economy and everything that has to go to debt, which is constantly growing, not only is you not coming out of the crisis, but you are constantly forced to follow the silencen course. And not only do you not become capable of dismissing your obligations, but with mathematical accuracy you lead to the lip of bankruptcy. And bankruptcy means not only that you are not able to pay, but that your lenders, i.e. the states, the people, that is, the taxpayers who loaned us their money, lose their money. So, here too, we have a question of co-responsibility and mutual benefit with partners. And the debt issue is not a technical problem. There are dozens of technical ways to deal with it. But believe me, it is a political issue. It has nothing to do with the implementation of decision data. Debt write-down is a political decision alone. So those who choose the path of austerity do nothing but recycle and gigantic the debt. We say 'final to austerity', precisely because we want the debt to be made sustainable. But you'll tell me why they want to make the debt big. Why do they not have a reasonable approach? But precisely because the debt was nothing but the tool to pass the memorials, that is, the austerity, which was their ultimate goal. So we say 'end of austerity' to make the debt sustainable. This can only be done with the proposal that we make in our institutions, society and our partners. What, then, are we asking for in this negotiation? First of all, we ask for space and time. The program - bridge this is exactly: Space and time. It is a short-term agreement that will help us to serve our obligations until we reach a new comprehensive agreement on cooperation and development in Europe. You told us it was a new memorandum. It would be a new memorial if it were accompanied by austerity measures. But that's over on January 25! The memorials of austerity have been abolished by our people. We do not have the right to bring them back from the back door! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This short-term agreement will not include conditions of imposition and austerity, and this is our red line, because we do not have the right to ignore the pure mandate of our people to put an end to this catastrophic path. Nor is this a new loan, as is spread by foreign media representing specific interests. We are not asking for any more money from European governments or a rescue mechanism. We are calling for specific facilities, such as the return of central bank profits, EUR 1.9 billion from the European Central Bank, that is, money that is due to us. We are asking to make use of money that we have already borrowed and are in the Financial Stability Fund in order to redeem our banking system from the'red loans'. That is why we want them there. We are asking for an increase in the threshold for the issue of interest stamps. In other words, we ask for technical facilities. But we are not asking for any more money. We're not asking for extra burdens on our lenders. That's what we're asking. Really, the other side what exactly is he asking for? What's the alternative plan he's proposing? I heard President Obama ask Mrs Merkel exactly the same question at the joint press conference yesterday and not get an answer. What exactly do they propose? What's the alternative? Shall we continue to propose the memorandum and austerity as if there were no elections in Greece? Can we get some more loan? Is that what they want? Accept the evaluation of the troika and take new austerity measures? Should we ignore the Greek people? But how can we ignore common sense? Mr Samaras has proposed these today. After Mrs Merkel did not reply to the American President, we should send the American President Mr Samaras' speech today to see exactly what the other side proposes. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would therefore like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Memorandum of Persistence and the Memorandum of Understanding, not to repeat to us here in Parliament all the absurd things Mr Shoeble suggests, namely to ask for an extension to the wrong, the same programme. We know these arguments. You have, after all, been applying them for four years now and failed. I don't know if you understood, that's why you're in the chairs of the opposition, and that's why we're in the government's seat. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] He failed the programme you implemented. If you had succeeded with this plan, the Greek people would not have given us confidence. So tell us something more original than the increase in the minimum wage would destroy the Greek economy, while the reduction and by law of the minimum wage revived the Greek economy! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Tell us something more original than we will face the problem of public debt, selling out as much as the public property of our country, because we have seen what the results were. Let us take the issue of wage cuts. Results on growth: 25% contraction of the Greek economy and no prospects of exiting from the recession. On the contrary, the gradual increase in the minimum wage to EUR 751 will stimulate demand and bring growth, while at the same time creating new revenue for the insurance funds. Moreover, the notion that the competitiveness of an economy has to do with wage costs has proved completely wrong and disastrous, not only for the workers, but for the economy itself. Because always in this globalised economy we live in will be able to pay lower wages. The bet on the competitiveness of the Greek economy is not to reduce the wages, but to support this competitiveness in innovation, in high technology, in quality goods and services. The same mistake and disastrous, however, is the memorial policy of privatisation. To be more precise, I must say not the privatisation policy, but the sale of public property, the networks, the infrastructure, which are national capital. Let me just remind you that the property of the Greek State has been valued in 2010 at EUR 50 billion. It was the big plan to deal with overcompensation. Four years after you only valued it at EUR 5 billion. This course of depreciation and devaluation is where we want to interrupt, because if we continue so, obviously the debt will grow into a barrel without bottom, but we will also become the only country in Europe without public property. And do not insist on the myth that Greece had not become privatizations, that it was supposedly the last Soviet democracy. That's what you're saying. Privatisations were done and more than ever in all the other European countries, of course, before the memorandum, because during the memorandum you were not able to reach the objectives of privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen, you are asking us whether we have a view, a target and a plan for private investment. We have a different concept. We recognise that private investment is particularly useful for the Greek economy, but our understanding combines private investment with a strong Public Investment Programme, with support for forms of social economy and development partnerships with a significant role and dominance of the Greek public, not with a sale of infrastructure. I have already made it clear since Sunday, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to repeat it today. As much as Mr Samaras and Mr Siomple are asking us today, we are not going to ask for an extension of the memorandum. We do not accept the prerequisites for the famous Troika mail to complete the evaluation. Since I said the word troika, to tell you that not only for us, but even for our partners and interlocutors, the troika as an institution has ended since 25 January, as an institution, as an institution not in fact. There was no legitimacy in this institution. It is not controlled by any elected institution of the European institutional framework. We are in fact in a tough negotiation and consultation within the European institutional framework and we are seeking to find a political solution within the European institutions not to resolve an economic equation that by definition is not solved, but to find the agreement on a bridge programme to have the comfort to discuss sincerely, without blackmail and ultimately to reach a new agreement on growth and cooperation in Europe and to agree on the necessary write-down of the Greek debt, which - to remind you - was agreed at the Eurogroup in December 2012 but was never claimed by the Greek side. We are therefore invoking an agreement that respects the financial rules of the Eurozone and does not constitute an exception to the rules of the Eurozone. We condemn a new contract between Greece and Europe in a programme for national reconstruction that will not only help our country, but will help the whole of Europe to get out of the strife of austerity, recession, deflation. It will help Greece and Europe to get into a new path of growth, prosperity and social justice, as it suits the citizens of Europe at the dawn of the 21st century. The agreement we are proposing will respect the rules. I will repeat that although we disagree with the rules, we have to respect them. But it is not the founding treaty of Europe, the United Europe, austerity. Above all, this agreement will respect the Greek people and their choices. He won't condemn him to life misery. At the same time, this will also be an agreement that will help Europe to regain its values and path, because the crisis is not a Greek peculiarity. The crisis is present in Europe, in the Eurozone which, for the first time this year, has been in deflation and stagnation. In this Europe, both the obsession with the wrong and the refusal to return to growth, and much more - the plight of the risk in the name of punishment will be the beginning of the end of Europe that we have known. I don't understand who would have an interest in such a choice. They speak very irresponsiblely in this Parliament and out on the Iphigenia myth. They asked me in Austria yesterday. But what icon of iphigenia? Iphigenia was sacrificed to drown the wind. Is there a serious person who believes that a break between Greece and the Eurozone will release a urine wind and a positive energy into the European Union, in the euro area, in the fragile area? Who is entitled to play with fire, to sow winds so that it very soon reaps storms? Ladies and gentlemen, I know - and it makes sense - that many did not want the election result and the popular mandate that we received both within and outside the country. I know that many and many have not yet accepted the election result. That can be understood. But it cannot be accepted. Nothing that has happened and continues to be done so that this government can be found on the ropes before it even takes over, cannot be accepted. This promise has nothing to do with the Government of social salvation that we have formed. This promise has to do with Greece, it has to do with the country. It is the last and desperate effort of the political staff who served this barbarity to prove that there was really no other way and there is no alternative today. And another way is there and an alternative proposal exists. Don't rush, you'll see it very soon. In this difficult framework of negotiation, therefore, it was not convincing at all that the arguments and excuses were put forward by themselves and not by the European partners to go as close as they could on the date of extension of the contract. No convincing! You joined the country's future in your election campaign. It was a political choice which served your micro-political and micro-political purposes, but nonetheless, the citizens and the future of this country. Because you were well aware that if there was a loan armour by June, there would be no technical justification for stopping financing from the European Central Bank. Because the European Central Bank wants a loan programme, not a Memorandum of Understanding. So you knew that in this version we would simply implement the popular mandate, legislate our programme without being able to blackmail us that we would be found without financial support from the banks. But you were dreaming - and still dreaming - parentheses. You planned the extortion of Greece in the last detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u352	Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u353	And that was your choice, conscious and vicious, your last hope of whether and threatening Greece to be justified or saved personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u354	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u355	You played Greece in the dice...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u356	You guys are gonna play it in dice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u357	...only so the story doesn't swallow you. But understand it, your story has already swallowed. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And the only parentheses that will ultimately be found in modern Greek democracy will be that of your own monumental times, the parentheses of the unconstitutional choice, the abolition of Parliament, the shrinking of democracy. This parentheses has finally ended in our place on January 25th! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And one more thing: You know - I said it out, I say it to you - the Hellenic Republic is not blackmailed. The Hellenic Republic is not blackmailed, because democracy in Europe is not blackmailed and democracy has no dead end. As long as we have the people on our side, we are not blackmailing and we are not intimidated by anyone! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have never claimed that this will be an easy route. The path of negotiation will be difficult. But we are prepared, prepared and determined to walk him. I wonder, however, honestly about the attitude of the Memorandum of Understanding. Two days now from speakers in particular of the Officerial Response, we hear contradictory things. On the one hand, that we are ready to do something about it, break our electoral commitments and go to unconditional compromise, and on the other, that we are driving the country on the rocks. Decide, what are we doing? In fact, we hear them both at the same time in the same speech and in the same paragraph. However, as I listened carefully to what Mr Samaras said, I would like to ask him directly the question that concerns Greek citizens these days: is it possible to present to us today, after the elections, after what happened, a resurrected food of Greece's'success story'? Which country do you live in? Didn't you understand anything about the election outcome? You did an election campaign of fear, horror. The Greek people made a brave decision. And it seems that this brave decision defends it with courage. You see it everywhere on the streets. There is a feeling of hope, of national pride. I'd expect you to do self-criticism today. You do not know what the word 'automatic' will say. I would expect you to tell us today that you will actually support the national effort, not in the words, but in practice. Yesterday, leaving from the Austrian Chancellor, where I found an unexpected friend of Greece - as Chancellor Bruno Kriski used to be a friend of Greece - told me that he saw our proposal as reasonable and realistic and that he would also take it to German Chancellor. But leaving, he said to me: 'Well, I will say it. Mr Samaras, who is going to the Summit of the People's Party, will support it.' Today you have spoken in general terms. What exactly are you going to support tomorrow? Should we request an extension of the programme, as requested by Mrs Merkel, or will you support the national position adopted by the Greek people? Will you support us getting a bridge program, resurrecting, having time to go to an agreement that gives prospects to this place? That's the question. Everything else is an escape.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u358	All the same to you, you want us to be! A hundred percent of SYRIZA have to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u359	And, of course, because I have heard you say that we are isolated - the same I heard just now and by the President of PASOK - I have to say that today I read the article of the head of the Group of the Socialists and Democrats in an Athenian newspaper, Mr Pitella. It's an article supporting not SYRIZA's government, social salvation. It is an article supporting Greece. I called him right away to thank him. He told me that this was the official position of the Socialist Democrats in the European Parliament. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] He also told me that he called the Italian Prime Minister, Mr. Renci, Mr. Juncker, Mr. Badovan, Mr. Sapen, Mr. Moschovisi, and asked for Greece's support in the critical negotiation. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In fact, what group do you belong to in the European Parliament? In the Socialist Group or in the Group of the European People's Party, where Mrs Merkel belongs? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has allies, Greece has a voice, Greece claims.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u360	You share your responsibilities. You've shared your responsibilities from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u361	You are seeking to destroy it. It's your muscular desire to destroy. The accident didn't make it by election. You are now seeking to hide your responsibilities. In this three-day debate, therefore, the government's Programmatic Declarations were presented both in general directions and at ministries' level. I feel once again the responsibility to assure the National Representation, but also the Greek people, the Greek citizens, that these Programmatic Declarations will be implemented in full. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Compliance with the commitments we have made to the Greek people is a matter of political responsibility and political credibility. I would also like to make it clear that the implementation of the Government's Programmatic Declarations does not constitute any kind of unilateral action. We will move on to measures to tackle the humanitarian crisis, to measures to relaunch the economy, to measures for the institutional reconstruction of the country in parallel with negotiations with our partners. Honestly, I would like to see in the roll-call vote that we will ask for measures against the humanitarian crisis, will you vote against? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Do you think that today in a European country there should be citizens who do not have the right to access electricity and a dish of food? Who can claim this in Greece and Europe? We shall therefore proceed to these measures. We will, however, move outside and beyond the framework of the negotiations, because we have told you that we have anticipated that they are in conditions of budgetary equilibrium. And humanitarian crisis measures are not related to any kind of need for new lending. I would also like to inform you that the government already has the first two bills to come next week as soon as the committees are established. The first concerns the protection of the first home from the auctions and the facilitation of the red loan procedure. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] If you really want to support, as you say, to vote on this bill, to vote on all the wings of this House. Because it cannot today, in 2015, have the Greek citizens unprotected at their first home from the auctions. The second bill is the measures to tackle the humanitarian crisis. We shall therefore lay down the foundations for the implementation of the whole of our programme and, of course, will follow the bills on measures for the State's scanning reform, the protection of workers, the fight against unemployment, the restoration and deepening of democratic institutions, the redistribution of wealth in favour of workers, pensioners, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have the pessimism of mind and the optimism of will. We are optimistic both with our minds and with our will. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are optimistic that our proposals are those which can put an end to the irrationality, social desolation and put the country back on the road to the right word, on the path of reason. I am optimistic that our European partners will respond to our proposals and we will reach a mutual compromise. Because I cannot believe that there may be forces in Europe today that want and seek to lead a people to humiliation and humiliation. I cannot believe that there may be powers today in Europe that want to avenge and punish, at the same time that they know that this choice can only cause us all to do, only to dead ends. Europe has experienced these deadlocks and left them behind since 1953, when it chose the way for consensus, solidarity and reason for Germany at that time and for the sake of the European idea. This European idea we are calling on our partners to justify. This idea calls on the citizens of Europe to support, the citizens who are already mobilising, supporting the fight of the new government, the fight of the Greek people for a European solution, to end austerity, to return the development agenda throughout Europe. These peoples will continue to be at our side and at the side of the Greek people, because these peoples are ultimately the European idea on the move. These peoples are Europe's future. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 January our people took luck in their hands. Today we are also optimistic about it. Today he hopes, today he feels proud and is ready to support our efforts. These three days in the House you have heard a reason for it. They heard in this Chamber Planning Declarations that were in the minds and the hearts of Greeks and Greeks. You have heard a purely scheduling speech and a government policy that puts people in this country above all. We do to these people today, by closing our Programming Declarations, our call. First we ask for a vote of confidence. Without them, we'll be nothing. Along with the people, we can do everything. For all the powers go from the people, they exist in favour of the people and we will only exercise them for them. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to give a vote of confidence in the New Government's Planning Declarations. The vote of confidence has already been taken by Greek society. Today I invite you to take it from the National Representation, so that tomorrow we can fight for the right of this country, for the right of this people to optimism and hope, for our common European future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u362	Ladies and gentlemen, with the speech of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, the debate on the government's programming statements has been concluded and, in accordance with Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure, a roll-call vote will be taken. The vote shall take place as soon as the debate on the Schedule Declarations is closed and shall be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. All Members of Parliament will vote in the vote, as will the Ministers, Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys, who are members of the House. The Government shall enjoy Parliament's confidence if the proposal of confidence is approved by an absolute majority of the Members present, which may not be less than 2/5 of the total number of Members. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, since I thank all the Members and all the Members of Parliament, all the Ministers, State Secretarys and Deputy Ministers, all the Heads of the Parliamentary Groups and, of course, the Vice-President of the Government and the Prime Minister, I invite you to vote nominally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u363	And the employees!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u364	The officials will thank them at the end, because we will still trouble them, Mr. Meimarakis, as you know. I would therefore urge you to vote on the roll-call vote. To this end, MEPs are called on the list by Mr Olga Gerovasilis from SYRIZA and the MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy, who is also a secretary of Parliament. I would also be obliged to take up a position in the Bureau and one or one of the Secretaries of the Parliament, who is a member of the SYRIZA, to get the Secretaries of the House involved more actively in the parliamentary procedure. I will inform you of the way in which the roll-call vote is to take place. The government's vote of confidence, after their name has been spoken, responds "NEI". I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, also to raise your hand, because it is almost half the new Members of Parliament and it will be easier for them to distinguish on their list. Refusing a vote of confidence in the government responds 'OR'. Refusing votes shall declare ‘APPROVAL’. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u365	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House of the outcome of a roll-call vote on the Government's Schedule Declarations to give Parliament's confidence in the government. [[Photo taken by protocol p. 675a]] A total of 299 Members voted. The government voted for a vote of confidence, i.e. 'NAH', 162 MPs. [[Upright SYRIZA and ANEL MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] They refused to give a vote of confidence, i.e. they voted 'NO', 137 MPs in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u367	It is therefore a historic moment for the Greek Parliament and the Greek people. The government has had the vote of confidence in the House. I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the minutes of today's historic sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u368	The House has given the mandate requested. Before resolving the meeting, there is also one thank you for having to say. We thank all the employees of the House, the Canal of Parliament, for the staff who have supported the whole process unnecessarily throughout this entire period, which has been the longest time to discuss Programmatic Declarations with most speakers over the last twenty-five years. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-10-S1-commons.u369	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 1.20 p.m. See you soon.
