ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Zesis Xanna, Member of Parliament, to read the references to this House. Before you start reading, Mr. Zanna, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three teachers from the 4th Municipal School of the beautiful Polichni Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. We wish you health and all good to have! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Zanna, you have the floor and I ask you to read the references with time short so that they can see the reference but avoid unnecessary details.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u2	Reporting notice of 11 May 2015: Congressman Dermitzakis Konstantinos filed a report to the Minister of Health on "The Association of Workers of the Hospital of Ierapetra highlights the dramatic situation in the Hospital of Ierapetra". MEP Mr. Dermitzakis Konstantinos submitted a report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion on the subject: "The Municipality of Ierapetra and the TEI of Crete point to the need to stay and continue the operation of the Department of Trade and Advertising in Ierapetra". MEP George Kasapidis filed a petition to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "The former municipal police officers of Kozani are applying for the right to choose a place in the re-establishment of the Municipal Police, as is the case for the other former municipal policemen". Parliamentarians George Marinos and Ioannis Giokas submitted a petition to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "The Association of Parents and Gardens of the Deep Australian Municipal School calls for the construction of a new school in Vathys. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Home Affairs, Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: "The Patras Prison Officers' Association calls for the resolution of their vital problems and for the restoration of serious deficiencies in the Patras Prison." Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "The Teachers' Association of the 1st Experimental Municipal School of Thessaloniki calls for the job status to be guaranteed in the Experimental Schools of Education with a five-year term of office". Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reform and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: "Citizen protests and cites proposals for former municipal police officers serving in Greek Police". Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reform and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: "Citizens quotes proposals to deal with outstanding labour issues of the former municipal police officers serving in Greek Police". Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Prime Minister and Minister for Health on the subject: "Paros – Antiparos residents protest with a resolution on the lack of health coverage provided by the local health centre". Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reform on the subject: "The President of the Foundation for the Protection of Ethics and Spiritual Values is seeking to grant a small area to a public property, to build a sacred temple by the "Ethics and Spiritual Values Protection Foundation". Parliamentarians Nikolaos Syrmalenes, Antonios Syrigos and Nikolaos Manios submitted a report to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "The Municipality of Amorgos calls for the completion of the composition of Amorgos with the National Network of Visual Visuals". Congressman Michael Kritsotakis filed a petition to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion on the subject: "Citizens informs of the non-responsible Greek graduate of a foreign school and calls for the modification of the conditions of registration". Konstantinos Dermitzakis filed a petition to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "The beneficiaries of Site work residences point to the shortcomings and mismanagement in the work houses of Sitia which had not been recorded by the OEC step". Maximos Charakopoulos reported to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "The Hellenic Society of Social Sciences finds that the course of Sociology is excluded from the subjects examined by the Third High School, undermining the role and teaching of social sciences in secondary education". Athanasios Davakis submitted a report to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "The Municipality of Elafonissos is requesting the establishment and operation of a permanent Police Department of Elafonissos". Athanasios Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou have submitted a petition to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "The inhabitants and institutions of Thassos are opposed to any form of licensing for the slate quarry in the area of Moonari on the Mount Ypsari". Nicholas Nikolaos Nikolopoulos reported to the main ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, State, Interior and Administrative Reform, on the subject: "The Association of Private Employees Patras lists his decision to abstain from work on Sunday 5 April 2015, which applies to festive hours and asks to abolish work on Sunday - holiday, in general. Nicholas Nikolaos Nikolopoulos reported to the Ministers of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home Affairs and Administrative Reformation on the subject: "The Greek Football Association lists its positions and proposals regarding the draft law "Ergent measures to counter violence in sport and other provisions". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "The Panhellenic Federation of Military Unions complains about wage imbalances in the military personnel of the Armed Forces, while substantiating with evidence these wage differences in numerical tables and requesting their restoration." Nicolaos Nikolaopoulos has submitted a petition to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance on the subject: "Citizens make a request in favour of the Agricultural Cooperative of "Files" Achaea for the non-consolidation of the latter with other Cooperatives". Nicolaos Nikolaopoulos reported to the Finance, Home and Administrative Reform Ministers on the subject: "The Consumer Protection and Training Association complains about the decision to harm the dignity of the most deprived in distributing food supply cards for use by the poor themselves." Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presented a report to the Ministers for Home Affairs and Administrative Reform, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "The school guards of Thessaloniki are seeking their reintegration". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presented a petition to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Citizen on behalf of the Trade Union Professionals Adapterios, Smokes and Fishery of Attica recommends the fight against tobacco smuggling and the regulation and reconstitution of the tobacco retail trade". Mr. Panagiotis (Panos) Skourikos reported to the Minister of Health on the subject: "The Mayor of Rafina points out the problematic functioning of the Rafina Health Centre and calls for its 24-hour operation and for its services to be fully upgraded." Mr. Ioannis Vroutis filed a petition to the Minister of Health on the subject: "The Mayor of Tinos highlights the seriousness of the problems of Tinos Health Center faced by the inhabitants of the island ahead of the tourist season and calls for their immediate settlement". Mr Kyriakos Charakides has submitted a report to the Minister for Finance on the subject: 'Citizens are asking for his information on a pension issue which concerns him'. Mr Nikolaos Moraitis and Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Health on the subject: "The Director of the PED - Vonicas Health Centre calls for the strengthening of the centre with additional staff". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The General Confederation of Professionals of Craft Trades of Greece lists its positions on the draft law "Regulatory arrangements for the reopening of the economy". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the subject: "The Press Follow-up Union calls for the upgrading of the Greek Public Diplomacy by creating a single diplomatic service and the transfer of the Counsellings, Secretaries for Communication of the responsibilities of international communication and the Press and Communication Offices from the Secretariat-General of the Directorate-General for Information and Communication." Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos made a petition to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "The Federation of Corinthian Organisations of Corinthian Gulf "ALKYON" protests about the shipment of waste to the ports of the Corinthian Gulf". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos made reference to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "The Federation of Corinthal Organisations "OLKYON" complains about the erosion of the coasts of the Corinthian Gulf and the incorrect treatment by the regions and municipalities, which opposes the sustainable development of the area over a long period of time". Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "The Association of Baby Nursemen of Greece is requesting the reintroduction of the hourly hours to the teaching staff of the Children's Stations". Nicolaos Nikolaopoulos has submitted a report to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "The Panhellenic Federation of conventional fire extinguishers and fire extinguishers, Five-year Obligation, presents a proposal for the homogenisation of the Fire Corps and the permanentisation of five-year Obligation Fire extinguishers." Mr Christos Dimas filed a petition to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "The former municipal policemen who exempted the mobility process and were transferred to administrative posts protesting discrimination against them, requesting the right to choose their transfer". Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis and Mr.Karathanasopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Health on the subject: "The special general medical care curator 2" of the Centre of Health of Astakos is requesting the administration of the health centre with medical, nursing and other personnel, thus making its proper 24-hour operation difficult. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "Citizen complained about a document - a revelation raised in the mind of the Union of Military Epirus on a suspension of hospital payments". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Contemporary Businesses - Modern Greece cite their positions on Article 21 of the recent draft law of the Ministry of Finance entitled "Consolidation on the relaunch of the economy". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presented a report to the Ministers of Finance and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "The Federation of Civil Aviation Associations presents a proposal for the development of the economy and tourism". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos made reference to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The Pan-Sport Group of Deaf persons is requesting amendments and additions to the draft law on emergency measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos reported to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Publication concerning information on the non-operation of the Museum of the city of Kalamata due to working hours during a visit made by cruise tourists who were portrayed in the city at the beginning of the current tourist season". Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reform on the subject: "The Pan-Hellenic Firehouse Five-Year Obligation Requests the permanentisation of the Five-Year Obligation Firefighters". Mrs Olga Gerovasili and Mr Vassilis Tsirkas refer to the Minister of Health on the subject: "The Mayor of Georgios Karaiskakis of the Arta Prefecture complains about the sub-selling and shortcomings in consumables faced by the four Agricultural Physicians of the Municipality of Georgios Karaiskakis and calls for the proper functioning of the Centre for Health of Calentini". Mr. Konstantinos Tsoulas made reference to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "The Zitsas Wine Association is requesting a review of the implementation of the new system for the movement and use of pesticides, focusing on the proper education of the rural world." Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presented a report to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "Professor of the PPAL lists additions and highlights in the draft "Democracy of the Administration, Combating Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "The Union of Military Regions of Epirus is claiming compensation for the overtime work of officers beyond 40 hours". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "The Fifth Hunting Federation of Epirus calls for the lifting of the ban on hunting in a region of the Kalama River of Epirus". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presented a report to the Ministers of Finance and National Defence on the subject: 'The Panhellenic Federation of Military Unions is calling for the normalisation of the pension entitlement of the military in 1990-1992'. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos made reference to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Politics presents comments and proposals on the organisation of experimental and pilot schools, on the organic positions within them, on the correction of such injustices, on the rehabilitation of persecuted and on the selection of new managers in these schools". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos reported to the Ministers of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs and National Defence on the subject: "Ponders of non-declaration of short-stay studies in their son to complete the latter's studies on higher education." Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Stavros Tassos, Emmanouil Synthraki and Diamanto Manolakos submitted a petition to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the subject: "The Association of Mining Cooperatives in Samos highlights the need to meet its requests for support for the wine sector in Samos". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos reported to the Minister of National Defence on the subject: "The Coordination Body of Co-operatives of Christian Associations of Thessaloniki protests and raises objections to the Citizen's Card". Nicolaos Nikolaopoulos has submitted a report to the Ministers of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "The Federation of Car Trucks in Greece calls for information as to whether the penalties laid down have been imposed on an invaluable borrower of transport projects within the territory". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presented a report to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "Citizens quoted his views on the causes of the creation and growth of the public debt". Constantine Damavonitis referred to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Teachers of the Experimental Schools are applying for the right to work security and the provision of organic posts to already serving teachers in posts on duty". Christos Boukoros filed a petition to the Minister of Health and Social Security on the subject: "The Regional Department of the Law of Magnesia of the Pan-Hellenic Society for Physical Therapists is requesting the immediate payment of the debts of EOPY to the enslaved natural therapists". Stavros Tassos, Emmanouil Synthrakis and Diamanto Manolakos referred to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "The Mayor of Limnos is calling for an immediate solution to the problem of the ferry connection between Limnos and Agios Efstratios by maintaining and strengthening the routes from the port of Lavrio". Nicholas Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has submitted a report to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject: "The Website of the protest of Mayor Zitsas on the imminent degradation or abolition of the Police Department in the Zitsa region of Epirus". Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presented a report to the Ministers for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Publication concerning the omission of basic needs of Greek children through funding related programmes aimed only at children of migrants".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Zanna. Reports completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will propose the two topical questions to the State Secretary, Mrs Kollia-Charuha. The first question will be discussed under number 182/5-2015, the second question of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the cleaning of the Thermaikos Gulf. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Maria Kollia-Charuha. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, on the occasion of not only recent reports to the media, but also personal self-consciousness along the coasts of the Thematic Gulf Sea, it is clear that we are seeing strong and visible, heated pollution problems. Right in front of the monument - a symbol of the city, the White Tower, the sea has been turned into a dump and with the parallel presence of the intense dysosmia that prevails, conditions are created that are incompatible with the principles of sustainable development that we are called upon to serve. Unfortunately, the Thermaikos Gulf mussel, the sea court of Thessaloniki, gives the image of a floating dump. And, indeed, as we enter summer months, with the expected rise in temperature, the phenomena of both eutrophication and red tide and the unpleasant atmosphere increase. The situation is getting worse and unbearable for both the citizens of Thessaloniki and the tourists. Unfortunately, since January 2015, due to the non-renewal of programmes and the necessary funds, the “ALKIPPI” anti-pollution vessel, which attempted to address at least the surface pollution, taking up a quantity of waste monthly up to two hundred cubic metres, has stopped its work. Let us say here that the cleaning operations were carried out in three different areas: from the port of Thessaloniki to the sea area of Megaron Music, from the port to the maritime area of Agia Triada and from the port to the delta of the rivers Apiros, Loudia and Aliakmon. However, as it is evident, the burden of cleaning was given before the coastal zone from the Concert Hall of Music to the port. When we talk about the Thermaikos Gulf, we are talking about the largest Gulf of the Aegean, where the second largest urban centre of the country is located, two of the largest tourist zones - Kassandra and Pieria - Olympus - expose important, Greek cross-border rivers - Aliakmonas, Axios, Loudias, etc. - and we are talking about certain areas that are protecting them and the Ramsar Treaty, i.e. Delta Adequacy and Aliakmon. In view of the above, in your co-responsibility area, in which the Thermaikos Gulf is located, and I say co-responsibility, because both the municipalities and the region of Central Macedonia should be felt - there are clear responsibilities for monitoring and controlling the protection of the environment, the quality of life in the region, the monitoring and coordination of the implementation of projects that are part of programmes and concern the Thermaikos Gulf, the care and promotion of tourist, economic, cultural and social development. We all know that the Thermal Gulf has deteriorated. The question through my question is to see what we can do together to improve not only the city's front window, but also to protect the marine ecosystem. We therefore want you to inform us, Madam Secretary, if there is any plan for water purification and, if any, when it will be implemented. In particular, my questions are reasonable and are the following: Firstly, whether the plan of water surface cleaning will continue by using the anti-pollution vessel and by making the necessary funds available, both from public bodies and, above all, from private sector bodies. Secondly, with what measure will the main polluting substances referred to above be tackled radically, not only in the case of floating pollution, but in the case of urban waste, industrial waste, agro-food activities, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. The State Secretary, Maria Collia-Charuha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I think that your timely question gives us the opportunity to answer fundamentally a key issue that touches the sensitive aspects of the city of Thessaloniki and I thank you for that. With what is stated in the report - and you are well aware of this as a journalist - that is to say, 'SOS transmits the Thermaikos', I will agree and add that for years the Thermaikos has issued signals of danger and on this subject everyone has been placed in public and branded and dozens of reports have been written. To the extent that it relates to the responsibilities of the addresses and supervised legal persons of the Ministry of the Interior, Administrative Reconstruction with responsibility for Macedonia and Thrace, I have to say to you: Our unparalleled and irreversible aim is to protect, promote and develop the Thematic Gulf, which, although an integral part of Thessaloniki's daily life, is unfortunately also exposed to environmental unconsciousness. Following the re-establishment of the Ministry of Macedonia – Thrace in 2012 and due to the dramatic reduction in its budget, it was decided directly to finance it by the private sector and with the help of two public bodies had proceeded with the lease of a special anti-pollution vessel, as already mentioned, for the cleaning of the Thermaikos by the end of 2014. Given that the contract ended at the end of last year, as the national elections followed, the new government, the delegation of powers followed, the State Secretary of State immediately started all the procedures required to seek resources from the poor budget, but mainly from the private sector, so that the new contract can be signed as soon as possible. I have had personal contacts with both the bodies and businesses that have so far supported this cleansing of the Thermaikos, but also adding others, which, for various reasons, had not been asked for their support. I have relevant letters that I can give you. If there is a possibility of funding, it is a wider debate. But, before we do, I would like to thank all those who support this effort through their environmental programmes and their sensitivity to the city. Regarding the measures to be taken to protect the Thermaikos, we are trying to raise the question of safeguarding the largest Gulf of the Aegean Sea at a new starting point, both for Thessaloniki and for the wider region. The main sources of pollution, as you mentioned, are: livestock farming, agriculture, industry, urban centres, their waste water, permanent holiday settlements, ships and tankers. Already the responsible Directorate for Environment and Culture and the Department for the Environment and Planning of Sustainable Development, which also has the responsibility to protect and promote the Thermal Gulf, is stepping up initiatives to tackle effectively the important and environmental pressures that the bay is undergoing, as well as the various industrial activities, the polluted load of rivers which take place in it, the newly unprocessed household waste water and the primary sector. Given that the Thermaikos also bears the burden on the waters of the rivers that escape to him - Aliakmon, French, Loudia - the responsible management works closely with the relevant departments of the ministries and local authorities - at least trying to cooperate - on the degree of central and western Macedonia, so that we can work together to protect and improve the development of the Gulf basin. Clearly concrete steps are needed - Mr Colleague, I would ask you to join in - and will result in a substantial reduction in pollution. We focus on the restoration of the water supply area in the area of old tanneries, on the continuous and systematic control of the outflows of all localised and potential spot pollution outbreaks and the pollution of the Thermaikos, on the appropriate location of the industrial zone through the Organisation of Regulatory Organisation of Thessaloniki and the rest of the institutions, as well as on the withdrawal of the authorisation of each installation, which does not effectively process its waste water. It also proceeds with faster procedures for the treatment of water from the main drainage in Sindu, possibly Loudia, as well as the rest of the drainage network in the southern part of the basin, where they now come directly to the Thermaic Gulf. Axios is a particularly important issue. There is a need for special treatment for this, since it also touches the neighbouring country, which does not belong to the European Union, and therefore we do not have the possibility of monitoring, as far as possible, the loads of pollution that are secured. All stakeholders are therefore making their efforts to control the situation. Mr Colleagues, the research teams, the city's highest institutions - and not only - have submitted their views, have clearly defined the timetable for the measures to be followed - I have contacted all these bodies - and all through financial programmes that could be exploited, both from national and European resources. I shall insist, however, - and I shall close with that in my protology - on the environmental consciousness that we must finally have. It will ultimately determine our right to hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Triantafylides, please, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u9	To give a class measure, let us say that in the coastal zone of the Gulf there is about 50% of the population of central Macedonia, 10% of the country. Approximately 18% of the processing base and production are produced in the same area. Let me give an example: 90% of shellfish production units are concentrated at national level. That is why it is not just - and that would only be worth it - an environmental issue, but it is also a question of strengthening and supporting the production process itself. According to European Directive 56/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2008, a framework directive on the marine strategy aimed at achieving the good environmental status of the marine environment, the good environmental status is ensured by eleven priority axes, including the preservation of biodiversity, the restriction of chemical pollution and eutrophication - which actually causes the disappearance of fish, because oxygen is minimised and we have problems in the survival of the fish population - and the removal of waste causing damage to the environment and the agencies and the maintenance of the good quality of seafood intended for consumption by the fish market. As far as sewerage is concerned, you have referred, Minister. It's a matter, I don't want to go into details. Obviously it is also about your colleague from the technical sector, Mr Spirtzi, if I am not mistaken, and it is about dealing with the treatment and integration of biological cleansing, the pan-orroic network and, indeed, the anti-military infrastructure. Because when we have flooding phenomena, because of the panorroic network, living, etc., it downloads everything in the vagina, thus creating a hideous picture. The same goes for industrial waste, and so is other polluting sources. We have the biological cleansing of BIPETH, the industrial region of Sindos, which should also be completed. On the occasion of - and I conclude with this, Mr President - the urgent theme of the Thermaikos and because your Ministry has the responsibility of coordinating all the activities of the country, particularly in the geographical area of Macedonia and Thrace, I would like to ask you for your own initiative, Mr Tsarouha. The chronological problems and wounds of the Memorandum are reflected daily in the body of our city, Thessaloniki. Black holes are visible. Metro is being cancerd. The port is deceived. The State Theatre of Northern Greece is down. The hospitals are falling apart. Thessaloniki remains the capital of unemployment, with huge percentages of young people and women and thousands of aggregations for poor people. The city is trapped in traffic, the market is surrounded by the metro sites and the only means of public transport, OSTH, has not yet made the free ticket during the hours the workers are moving. This is Thessalonica. This Thessaloniki was received by the Government of National and Social Rescue SYRIZA - ANEL. So I ask you, Madam Secretary, Mrs Tsarouha, to convey the proposal for a special thematic meeting of the Ministerial Council in Thessaloniki in June and in the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace, under the presidency of the Prime Minister, with an agenda of all the above-mentioned global issues. The city needs an urgent and extraordinary programme, using all possible national and European resources, with the mobilisation of both public and private sectors. In this direction, similar thematic meetings of the Ministerial Council per region could be organised in Alexandroupolis, Ioannina, Larissa, Heraklion and so on, throughout the country, so as to make it clear that the policy of the Government of Social Rescue SYRIZA - ANLE is a ransom act and does not move and is not delimited to the narrow limits of the Athenian political and television "pringpatos" but concerns the entire Greek territory from Alexandroupolis to Crete and the Dodecanese to Florina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u10	You have prepared a cleaning program for the whole of northern Greece, Mr. Triantafylides. Mrs. Charuha, do you have anything to fill in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u11	Apparently, I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u12	To keep the time, because the ministers are urgent and critical. Keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u13	I will try, Mr President. I understand. Mr President, what you said, as the President said, is very important. I am pleased that the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction is here to hear them - not that he does not know them but it is a good reminder. Those who believe in the institutional role of the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace, looking through it to disassociate the demands of the North Helladic people in public policy, can move forward, in order to do what we have to do, that is, self-evident. So in keeping with all the powers he had before the elections, the Ministry demands those which will allow him to make use of his strategic, lasting, coordinating role, as you have already said. This will begin with the activation of all the development, academic and scientific forces - which I firmly believe - with the ultimate aim of creating the solid bases for the relaunching of the northern Helladic business, which has been strangled in previous years in the name of the Memorandumic Policies. The present government has stressed that Thessaloniki is a crossroads of opportunity and development, which are spread throughout northern Greece by the capital of Macedonia. These multiple problems caused by the amoralist and isotopodic policy of numbers and sterile neoliberalism, arising from the total absence of a national reconstruction plan of the country and its advantages and its geopolitical importance, cannot be tackled directly, even at a decade's level. We will definitely start by redefining national dignity, creating new clear terms of operation that will have to do with the business community and end up with the fact that the political leadership serves the people and citizens. In the name of social responsibility, as I said in my first speech, I called in the context of the social responsibility that should be shared with us all, the support of the daily operation programme of this detergent. For the operation of this and of the whole project, it is decisive to assess positively the invitation they have addressed to support the thermal cleansing programme of the Gulf. I believe that in a short time this will happen and we will proceed with the process of signing the new convention. The Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism is working with us and within our responsibilities, and we are working with him to solve the problems. What it is about the 2014-2020 programming period, which is expected to start next month, provides for actions related to Directive 2008/56/EC on the maritime strategy for the protection and management of the marine environment, including the reduction of pollution in the marine environment, so that there are no significant effects or risks. The big question remains the joint coordination of actions and actions, Mr Colleague, on the protection and sustainable development of the Thematic Gulf basin. I ask you all to come back - as you are already proposing and I thank you - to do our best for Thessaloniki and Macedonia. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. We are discussing the next question to you, Minister, on the fifth Question No 161/28-4-2015, by Mr Anastasios Publicsias, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the legislative arrangement for the adoption of the Preciousness clause. The Deputy Minister will answer Maria Collia-Charuha. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, by the law of the Greek state 4150/2013, the clause on island status was introduced into the legal procedure, i.e. every bill to be passed on to Parliament, to be considered in terms of its impact on the Greek island regions. It is a very important reform, which ensures that our sensitive island regions are treated equally in the work of the legislator. The General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy, based in Mytilini, has undertaken the application of this clause through the Isle of Insularity Application Department of the Island Policy Directorate, a service defined by the a.d. 103/2014 on the establishment plan of the then Ministry of Trade Shipping and the Aegean. We expect this provision to come into effect, and hopefully it will work as an umbrella for our islands, especially as regards the island of Samothraki, the island of Nikos, an integral part of Evros, sharing the same problems and the same struggles as the whole prefecture, a prefecture with sea and land-sensitive borders, both favorite destinations of illegal immigrants. Samothraki, because of its particular problems, gives us the impetus to demand not just the application of the clause of islandity but also its extension to remote areas, with the first and foremost implementation of the Evros. Indeed, the introduction and application of a terminology clause could to some extent offset the problems of the Evros Prefecture by better predicting its peculiarities from any new legislation. The issues of the insularity clause and the discretionary clause have asked me as a recent written question. In response to the Secretary of State for Shipping and the Aegean, and in particular the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy, the encouragement - please - and the view that the adoption of the Accuracy clause could be implemented through the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace. Let me say here and note that it is difficult to degrade even orally to the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace, because we have all grown up - and you, Mrs. Undersecretary - with the symbolisms of the Ministry of Northern Greece and later Macedonia - Thrace. We want this portfolio to have the importance and strength it deserves, its responsibilities and resources to better deal with the problems and to make full use of the prospects of northern Greece, Thrace and Evros, where you head ministerial. That is why we believe that the creation of the appropriate structures for the adoption of the terminology clause will offer symbolism but above all the Ministry's practical role, an act that can be carried out at minimum cost but with multiple possible benefits for the future. Before I close, you will allow me to mention a very vivid example of the need for these provisions, which concern the draft law on education, which is being discussed these days. We hear that an amendment has been tabled in respect of favourable arrangements for the introduction of high school pupils into higher education from the gloomy island of Kefalonia. I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council may have subscribed to this amendment but should have made a corresponding provision - and it should be noted in the Minutes that I now formally propose to the Vice-President for Education, Mr Kourakis - and to the families of the Evros flooding people, for those who have lost their homes and their homes, for those who have had to stay - and still distribute - in hotels and houses of friends and relatives, for those who have lost their farm and livestock farms, for those who are still looking for their land under water and mussels. In fact, recently, on Saturday and Sunday, I was in my homeland, in the Dumotich and in Suffli, and I found it myself. They are few children, but they are not a maximum symbolism. I hope that this proposal will be put forward and the Deputy Minister will be informed. In conclusion, for all the above, Minister and Minister, you ask if you intend to study the adoption of a clause of accuracy, so that, apart from the other obvious benefits, the Evros Prefecture will have a double safety net, along with the insularity clause and its implementation in Samothraki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the Parliament is operating, eleven students and students and four educational attendants from the program of the Holy Metropolis of Ilio, Acharnon and Petropolis "Actions for the benefit of the child and the Roma family". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The visit is attended by the Reverend Ilios, Acharon and Petropolis Mr. Athenagoras. Your Honor, we welcome you and congratulate you on your work. Dear students and dear students, we congratulate you and of course we wish you health and progress. Be well. Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I would like to thank you for the opportunity you have given me with the question you are asking me and for the effective cooperation we have agreed to develop between us, as you are the corresponding partner of the New Democracy. Through your question, you are giving me the opportunity to address all my fellow Members, North Helladites and not a call for vigilance and compassion so that far from exclusion and separation, we can acquire a common visionary stepping-up for Macedonia and Thrace, in areas of special value and sensitivity for our country. I have no intention of criticising, Mr President. It should be noted, however, that in the name of the nationally sensitive area, namely Thrace, there were rich incentives for investment. In the end, industrial regions have turned into industrial museums, been looted and economically destroyed in an area which is currently experiencing the crisis, perhaps more pronounced than other regions. What overall development plan has been implemented, which has ultimately not undermined regional reconstruction opportunities and has not framed the country's real priorities? Can one say, Mr President, that the resources of the Third Community Support Framework, which predicted 80% of the expenditure for the region, were finally allocated as originally planned? So, Mr President, having the same starting point, since we have been born and come from locust prefectures, I believe that we are better able to know how important the geostrategic and economic role of Thrace is. Evros does not end Greece, but the European Union begins. Evros is a hard-tested place, having suffered extensive disasters, as you have described and met all of us, due to the floods that occur almost every year. Without being in the mood to seek responsibility from them, I can say that those who served from positions of responsibility in other regions of Macedonia and Thrace have a great responsibility for what happened. There are huge damage to plant production, livestock and housing damage in the areas of Soufli and in other areas, as well as to impurities. There are three hundred destroyed GWO pumping stations. The protection of Evros therefore requires a constant struggle, and in order to have substantial results, we must also function catalytically through decentralisation of structures. The State Secretary of Macedonia and Thrace is not just for the guys. Although it had become, Mr Colleague, a ministry of parades or protests that closed its circle in the narrow framework of the co-chairman, as was usually the case at the place where the Minister was elected, this must be overturned and I will fight it with all the powers I have. We are determined to draw up a full development agenda that will touch all northern Greece, from Kastoria and Florina to Evros and Samothraki, such that it will try to solve the chronic problems that we are suffering and will serve the dual, gradual reconstruction and modernisation of the country's production model, while deepening social cohesion. Through my institutional capacity and with the specific responsibilities I have, I call for your support to make Thrace and Macedonia an integral part of the national development strategy. That is what the present government of our country wants to implement. As far as your question is concerned, although it is to be studied, I think that it is still unsuitable, as it is possible to implement it, to make much of the problems of special treatment which would result in in inequality. Perhaps more appropriate - I propose and will discuss it - it would be to provide incentives and aid - but real and controlled aid - through more general development planning. In n.e.c. A number of interventions in Northern Greece, which meet all the needs of the region, are being activated and supported, are laid down in Article 1 of Regulation (EEC) No 358/86: 'Definition of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Northern Greece'. In the current body of the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace - State Secretary now - there are the respective structures of legislative and development action. In addition, it is already planned to draw up the impact analysis of the arrangements under Article 7 of the Treaty. 4048/2012 for the legal arrangements or legal changes proposed by the HORI, as well as the report on the implementation of the results of these by the Department of Parliamentary Control and Legislative Initiative. In my dentistry, I will continue my answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for a second. However, I would like to ask all my fellow Members to keep time. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u19	Madam Secretary, I see that you have good intentions and good will to help northern Greece. After all, you have proved this by your well-being in politics. At the same time, however, you stressed this with emphasis and at the first meeting we had as Macedonian-Thracian Head of Sector. However, with my current proposal, we do not ask for money but for legal cover and protection. Evros, with this question, doesn't ask for money. Of course, all the things you have said to us and stressed with emphasis and faith are particularly worthwhile and serious. What we are asking for is support for the law. What we are asking, Mr President, if you want - and you know the law well - is an institutional counsel, in our efforts to prevent the complete collapse of the Evros Prefecture. But, as the Minister said before, the principle of Greece, the principle of Europe, we must all take care of it. Because if we don't take care of her, we'll be vulnerable to where we're talking. In Evros lately, due to the recent flooding and the day before the hailing, all the Sufli’s city vineyards were destroyed. And we're not talking about a vine, but eight to ten thousand acres. We're talking about the Thracian vineyard blossom. We also have the accumulated problems, which you have described, such as zoonoses, non-payment of wage-cost subsidies, and we have our factories closed down, such as the sugar factory, and the craft industries. As far as the sugar factory is concerned, it should be smoked and only chimney which is a thousand eight hundred meters away. It demonstrates the importance of further adoption for Aristotle Greece of special measures for immediate and timely intervention, even at a preventive level, especially areas of high sensitivity, as said before, Madam Secretary, such as Evros. The accuracy clause we are proposing serves precisely this need, especially at our eastern land borders, to Evros, who are also under the greatest pressure from the neighbouring countries, Bulgaria and Turkey, and also from the politically and economically and politically, from the not so responsible water management in Bulgaria, which results in flooding in Evros, to the Turkish-adjusted aggressive immigration. We experience these in our yards, in our fields. Our grandparents and grandparents, our parents, our brothers. You don't live here as long as we live where we are at a distance of a thousand meters from the river. Do you think your father would go to his house at 22.00 and while there is no soul, to meet fifty people without knowing who they are? Come to that man's psychology. It is easy to understand that our border regions, land and sea borders, have an increased need to adopt a number of security differences, at least as far as, Madam Secretary of State for the Interior, is concerned, in legislative work. We believe that it is easy to make a reality, through the establishment of a legal section in the establishment of the establishment plan of the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace for the control and study of the effects of any legislation on the remote and sensitive region of Evros. In this way, a double umbrella will be created for the Prefecture of Evros through the island clause for the island of Samothraki and as a whole for the entire prefecture with the austere clause. I believe that this clause can open up new roads to dealing with the problems, but also to addressing the issues of Thrace and Macedonia as a whole, giving the Ministry substantial new responsibilities - a symbol of all the Thraces and Macedonians. I assure you, as I have told you in your office - and I reply to your call - that you will find me a supporter and a loyal supporter, as well as a Member of the Aristotle Evros as well as a Sector of Macedonia - Thrace, in any move towards the good of Evros and the empowerment of northern Greece. To close, you will allow me to make a final request, especially from television, because Greece sees us: In this effort we make Evros stand on his feet, following repeated flooding phenomena and intense rainfalls with hail the other day, to help all Greekism. The blessed place, Evros, is the beginning of Greece, as you said before, but also of Europe. It is also a place rich with experiences and performances. Visit Evros and make tourism to Evros. Strengthen him, a place that almost every family of Greece has lived through the service of its fathers and sons. This summer we invite all Greeks to get to know Evros and support him, to know the beauties of Evros and Samothrace, mysteries, rural tourism, history, culture, folklore, religious tradition, the monuments of Evros. We're ready to welcome you and host you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u21	Support our vision to be Evros, Madam Secretary of State of the Interior, a prefecture - model in relation to the rest of the country, in relation to the other prefectures and to say to them "Go to Evros. This is how Greece will be.' We have all the conditions to adopt him and make him a model. I would also like to say - and to close - that apart from being a model of the Evros Prefecture, it should also be a transit hub. We have the new Ennatia, we have to create the new maritime Egnatia, we have the vertical axes, we have the port, we have the airport, we have a river artery toward Central Europe... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The South-Eastern Mediterranean can therefore reach through roads, sea and rivers, in Central Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for the book you gave me. I promise to study it and give you the answers that are required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I would like to remind you that the sugar mills were ready to close - not to say that they were prepared to close - but the current government with a hard and struggling effort seems to be holding them and opening the Orestiad plant. I'm not officially announcing it, but there's been an attempt. This will, of course, be announced by the Minister responsible, but I have to tell you at the moment that an agonizing attempt is being made to cultivate beet. I have seen the agony of the Minister for Agriculture and other Ministers, such as Mr Lafazani, for sugar factories - because, you know, in Serres there is another factory - to operate. I ask you, when I visit - and it's the first thing I'm going to do - Samothraki, to join me and you and other colleagues from Evros...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u26	It's a great honor. Although you're late...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u27	...to see together, starting and semantically, my visit to Thrace, the official, where I will be in contact with the various actors. Now, what it has to do with the tactical clause. For remote regions - as you have pointed out - particular sensitivity, i.e. legislation and policies being pursued on their impact on the remote area and where the necessary adaptations are required and policy programmes are being developed in critical sectoral policies, such as land planning, solid waste management or rural development, already provided for in the former Ministry - now the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace - the respective competences and departments for monitoring the proposed regulations and regulatory interventions and their consequences in the areas laid down by the necessary provisions. I have told you all this because they are creating a reality which, in my view, will mean improving entrepreneurship indicators, reducing and balancing tax rates, simplifying and speeding up the business environment, reducing bureaucracy and creating new jobs today. So it is all about those development features that we want to give to our country in order to stand upright, proud and financially autonomous again. Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, I would like to believe that you will agree that a new development plan is needed, which must promote the reconstituting of the agricultural sector, because it can shape not only new rural balances but also promote the integration of the local area. It remains a comparative advantage of the quality of its agricultural products, the designation of origin, as much as they have been underestimated. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is a debate on the drafting of the Preservation Order. We intend to hold this debate, but after conclusions have been drawn from the implementation of the Isle of Insularity clause - the conclusions have not yet been assessed - so that we can formulate the clause on the basis of the best available practices. In any case, there will be prior consultation - and we already have to pursue this - together with the relevant local, national and European bodies so that we can actually bring this clause in and bring it in the same way as the island clause. We will certainly come back and thank you for the cooperation. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. The fourth question, with number 192/5-2015, will be discussed first cycle of the Parliamentary Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the financing programme for children's stations. The Minister will answer Mr. Nikolaos Voutsi. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, this question was made on the basis of a number of previous publications, Minister. And from this point of view, we have tabled it precisely for the government to inform us of the picture that is being formed for this programme but further to inform us of the actions that it is going to take over the next period in order to address the very serious problems relating to the operation of the children's stations and the CSM stations. On the basis of these publications, Minister, there is a risk that the available funds will be reduced for this year by 50%. In particular, the picture generated on the basis of these publications says that for the period 2014-2015 a total of EUR 125 million was allocated by the ESRB and EUR 63 million by national resources, public expenditure, i.e. EUR 188 million. This programme served eighty-fifths of thousands of children at private, public and CIDO stations. If this picture is to be reduced by 50%, that means that about half of the children who joined the programme will come out of the day and about half of the workers will be fired, about ten thousand of the twenty thousand workers employed in the programme. And to take account of the fact that this staff has been working for over three years under the renewal regime. Basically, it supports the operation of these children's stations. Of course, the whole picture is going to come in addition to the huge problems that existed following the decision by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK to pass on to the local authorities, so with their operating problems, with their years of sub-financing, with the enormous shortages of staff and the shortcomings of children's stations in the necessary infrastructure. From this point of view what we are asking the question, Minister, is: What funds have been guaranteed for this year? In addition to the ESRB programme, the rest of the children's facilities are not integrated and the municipalities are already starting to ask for registration applications for the new year, that is 2015-2016. However, without knowing how many children's stations will operate with the NRP and how many normally, without a programme, cannot plan for their own activity. So, what funds have been guaranteed for this time programme? Is this programme going to finance only public and municipal structures or will it also finance private kindergartens as has been done so far? What is the government's thought about the permanentisation of contractors who through PPA renew their contract continuously over the last three years. How does the government think more about dealing with the matter overall? Because this program has short feet. At some point it will stop and problems will be much more serious to deal with in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. This is a very serious issue you raise. We are of course very concerned about this, and we need to draw up a strategy which should take into account the data that will be generated from the summer and then, after what we hope will be achieved, a strategic agreement with the partner creditors on the basis of which it will be possible to release resources, both in relation to the primary surpluses - a subject which is now under discussion - but above all, the reduction of nominal debt and the remodeling of the programmes for the next five years as a whole. Only via the ESRB can they be covered. And I answer an overall question that follows immediately afterwards. It is not possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to meet economic needs and, in my opinion, it should not be. In other words, all this should be public and through the Public Investment Programme and through the creation of a social service of the municipalities, permanently, should be fully integrated into the operation of the welfare state at the municipal level. That is a completely different logic, which I am trying to do now, which we do not yet have the financial data that I have told you, eventually move on. An Interministerial Committee has already been convened to discuss how these social services of the municipality could be, which are obsessed and collide, all the social structures in each municipality. The financial data is what you said, but it's wrong. We would never make that mistake. I did not reply to your colleague, your colleague Mr Sophie, because the CEDEFOP too three days ago, at the beginning of the conference, said that so many children would be left out. It's obvious they won't stay. The political agreement we have made at ministerial level is this available money, which reaches for the first two and a half years grossly at best, if it works on the basis of how things were working, to come forward with the ESDP and to cover these years. So a direct matter will not be presented. It is obvious, however, that there will be a serious issue for the future and we have to move on with a completely different logic, always on the basis of public perception, and also to see that the Public Investment Programme and the funds from the appropriate ministries of labour, health, etc. are increased, that these structures are also covered through the CFPs and with permanent staff, which is also a bet we will see how to implement it. Because these 11 months are really problematic, as are the question of their working hours which have increased from thirty to 40 hours and cannot be done by the ladies who are there. We are clearly in favour of his policy to return to 30 hours. Of course, there are some problems - we have already discussed this with the CEDEFOP and with municipalities - which are related to the fact that they are going up to four o'clock this afternoon and have already been divided into two or four hours by some municipalities, working relationships or another type of problem, which we have to cover. We are therefore directly in favour of the principle of public uniform structures with permanent staff, working rights and open to the challenges of the times. Because the children will be constantly increasing, as will the needs of the parents, topics to which I shall refer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you know very well that we don't have a trial of intent. What are we worried about? We are concerned about what you said at the beginning. Of course, that's what we said. Of course, we would like a clearer picture. You tried to give the picture, but the problem that you recognized is this: we will know the situation that will be shaped from summer onwards, and then on the basis of how the agreement between the government and the institutional partners and the former troika will proceed. This creates some problems, Minister: the problems of delaying programming and about how many children's stations can work with regard to the staff who have to make the same requests again, because it is now three years that renews the contract, and in total the programming that the municipalities have to make for the next period. Already today, for example, a number of municipalities have begun the process of applications by the people's families to join the non-SRF children's stations. This is what you understand that creates difficulties and obstacles if we don't have a clear picture. Minister, you know very well what the position of the Communist Party was, that children's stations should not be placed under the responsibility of the municipality, should be public, should be state nurseries, in the context of pre-school education which should exist. From this point of view, the state should be responsible and not only to operate, with permanent and stable staff, but also not to be part of the logic of the food industry at the same time. Because the development of things by transferring responsibility to the municipalities, Mr Minister, you are unfortunately well aware of what was happening: the lack of childcare facilities, the dispensation of childcare facilities for the children of the people's families, the overthrow of working relationships for workers, the intensification of their work. Of course, with all this and with the help of the ESDP, a much more serious situation will be created. We were, of course, opposed to such funding from the ESDP programme for children's facilities, because it is precisely because it helps to increase the problem even further in the next few years. So, the question - and we really would like the next time to generalise the debate - is: firstly, how the necessary infrastructures can be covered, that is, the structures for children's facilities which are necessary to cover all the children of the people's family. Secondly, this staff will be permanent, Minister. From the ASP is three years and their contract is constantly renewed. Are we going to other procedures? Basically, they keep the kindergartens and their operation. In addition to all that you have recognised, and the childcare hours, they also have a number of other obligations. Finally, through this process, Minister, in the next few years all the children of the people's families will be able to join and above all the families of the unemployed. Because you know very well that for the NRP programmes the unemployed family is undermining themselves to send her child to the nurseries and the majority of municipalities, unfortunately, excludes the children of unemployed families from the nurseries. So there are a number of such issues. Since you can assure us from now that funding will be unavoidable for the next period, at least for 2015-2016, this will be an important contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u35	Perhaps it was not understood that what I said about the summer was about whether we could now study another strategy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u36	The whole...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u37	It was not about ensuring for 2015-2016 and for 2016-2017. I told you that we decided - political decision is ahead - that the funds for these first two years...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u38	Therefore, publications do not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u39	No, not even by the way. Publications don't apply. And Nikos Sofian said that over there. That was good. We gave some clarifications, because they were also workers gathered from the JAPDs. It is clear that they are fully assured for the next two years with the money, but that they will be for the next five years. I mean, the gap will now be huge from there. So we will study - and this is why I have referred to the summer - from the outset and in total for the other social structures, the KIFIs, etc. - are eight, nine structures of at least, very important, very serious, how they will be integrated, how they will become, how they will acquire a permanent, both for staff and for hours. You are right about the issue of the unemployed families. These NSRF programs are just for mothers, they're not for children. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna say that, I'm not holding up, you know me. This trick has been done. We're gamblers in general and reasonably and some of the well-deserved partners out there say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u40	To facilitate parttime work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u41	We put it in order to make it easier for moms to leave their children to work. It's not for the kids. It's not for the protection of children. It's about twice the number that was pre-crisis. Forty thousand, mostly, had started with young children -- because I've seen them, I've been there -- and now they've been to ninety thousand. They would normally have to absorb more than 30 thousand, so that the seats would really be covered, for an income ceiling, a threshold, that someone from there or above could, possibly, either by private station or at home, be covered. It should be for at least 30 thousand, because the crisis brought about a return. Many of the private families left, both in popular neighborhoods and in popular families. The west was filled with small private stations, from which the world left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u42	The public should cover.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u43	The world left there and goes back to the public. We need a strategy on this issue, which, of course, also takes part in pre-school education. Because many of them also cover preschool. It starts from the baby and arrives to the children of the four before going to kindergarten. I repeat, we have ensured that there is nothing problematic over the next two years, but it is a mixed matter that we will see with priority and we can see it intergrouply and discuss it in depth, because it is an extremely urgent matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Minister. The third question under number 194/5-2015 will be discussed at the time of a topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, with the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problems in the operation of Creative Employment Centres for Children and Children with Disabilities (CEDEFOP). The Minister will answer Mr. Nikolaos Voutsi. Mr Colleagues, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, following on from the JRC's timely question about childcare facilities, the same situation prevails in the Centres for the Creative Employment of Children and in the ASEAN JAPAN. It is a rock for hundreds of thousands of families, because all these families, who come from the working populace, are waiting every year to see whether the child will go to Creative Employment Centers, as well as to children's stations, to find people part-time, but above all, so that the child can have an elementary school education at a critical age of six to 12 years. There are four hundred eight structures in Greece, hosting some forty thousand children, with about a thousand employees. Much more is the problems in ACE children. It is very little for the children involved in this particular structure. Because of poor state funding, everything depends on European programmes and every year there is the same debate about whether or not to be financed. How long will this case last? Look. It is true that it is being distributed outwards, and indeed these are called mayors - that is why the previous party representative, Mr Karathanasopoulos, as I will raise this issue - is that 60 million have been paid for all the structures, and the real needs to meet all these needs are estimated at 200-250 million. If that is the case - you say that it is not the case, we have just made an intrusion - it means that from this case they are thrown out of forty thousand children and about ten thousand workers. So you realise that especially for this year 2015-2016, due to the general cuts and the possible reduction in the European programmes that are being promoted, if you like, in the sense of privatization and the intervention of individuals, non-governmental organisations or - the new 'fruit' - with the creation of Social Cooperatives, things will be even worse. You may say that the social services of the municipalities will be strengthened. They have social services, which are nonexistent. Do you know who has replaced these social services? Public utilities. What are these utilities, how do they operate, where they are controlled, who controls them, how does money move? Because it moves through public-private enterprises and goes to Creative Children's Employment Centres. And it moves money that the non-governmental organizations go through there, various good foundations and don't account for municipal councils. They have their own budget. Not controlled. I'm telling you. From Heraklion we have a similar experience. There is a social service, i.e. there is a vice mayor of a social service, who is almost nonexistent, who does not have an employee to do business. It's all going through the gullible business. The unions and the federation of workers in the CIDs and CIDs have sent you too many memos. They also visited the Secretary General of the Ministry, Mr. Poulakis, who gave concrete answers and said the following, which contrast with what you say: To finance he said it was early and will depend on negotiations with the partners. I tell you exactly what he told the workers. And for the job he said to forget about the conversion from a certain point of view to an indefinite period. But all the employees are under private law contracts and block works contracts. These are twelve-month contracts with the right to renew, of course, since this European cofinancing will continue. Everyone is waiting with a stress -31/8 is ending their contract - about what will happen. Every year the same story. We therefore ask you very specific questions. What the actions are, because they were also the election commitments of the SYRIZA. How will the government deal with the question of funding and staffing for the operation of the social services to be done before the end of these programmes, that is to say not to close any structure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u46	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President. The establishment of new structures and the financing of the state budget. I will give you an example of this, of course, about the children's stations, but it also applies to the Creative Employment Centres. Twenty-two thousand children have been born in Heraklion in the past five years. From zero to five-and-a-half years of age, they had to pass through the children's stopper. Thousands of three hundred children, that is only 7% of the children of that age, pass the threshold for children's stations. The situation is unacceptable, and in no case will the needs be met. What are you going to do, so that all children with inclusive income and parent contributions can be registered, that workers' wages are paid on time and that their regular wages can be paid by the state budget, that they can only be provided by permanent government-financed structures that are all-financed by 100% of the budget and that European Union funds can be used, that workers' contracts can be renewed, and that, at the same time, they can be permanently introduced - and, furthermore, that they can be recruited as permanent staff in order to meet the real needs of society, the Creative Employment Centres, the children's stations and, of course, full services are provided? Because this funding, this money that goes, covers some of the basic needs of Creative Employment Centres and children's stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction has the floor, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u49	Mr Colleagues, it is clear that I have answered your question of funding. I think that even with the last law, which we voted on, these extensions were given to all the structures for contracts, etc. There will be no problem, in order to maintain the current situation, for which we are obviously not happy, and we obviously consider that it should change and change radically. That is why I am constantly referring to the new economic data, on which we must go - and I hope we will go - and the choices we will make. I directly tell you that our Government is absolutely discriminatory in favour of social needs and in particular in favour of the needs of the children of popular families at these ages. In this sense, there is a matter of priorities both in financing and in working relations, and in what you have raised as the last question, namely a wholehearted approach to education in these sensitive structures, which are obviously not baby parking, but it requires from paedophiles to social workers. In other words, there is a need for a substantial study and intervention so that we can give the conditions of crisis - if you also want the consequences of the incredible consequences of the Memorandum policies on families - another example of writing, which we hope as a government will give. I understand that you put in the first three months of governance by SYRIZA and ANEL all the issues and the strategy you have and the needs that your policy brings to the forefront. You're doing very well. That works for us positive. It is a positive pressure in one direction, but we have either way. And we will be judged on the basis of the policies that we are going to pursue on these issues - I would not say four years - at least in the first two years, where a new strategy is possible and on this issue has its own fingerprints. Especially in the case of the United States, and for these structures special attention is needed. I am not ready at the moment to argue that there should be a network with a state status, but I am ready to tell you quite clearly that it needs to be in social services, which will not be public services, as you said, nor any guys and ghosts. They will be essential social services in municipalities with specific industrial relations and staff. Either way, the CFP is paid permanent staff of the municipalities and in this sense at least the employment relationship will be central. Slowly - slowly, the regions that are responsible for the proposals on where and how many stations and centres are going to take place - I mean in terms of funding and integration in the NSRP - on proposals from the municipalities, of course, but also the municipalities that exercise this policy on a daily basis with the proximity of the problem, these structures should stand on their feet - I mean, I mean, the municipalities and the regions - and deal with such complex issues. The question is not always resolved through the central state structure. In other words, it does not belong to national policies, in the sense of education, health, etc., which can only be centrally exercised by the State. They have their own autonomy, proximity, and if they are able to exercise themselves in the context that we have said, with an entirely public character from the municipalities, I believe they may be too much. But I would say that we will discuss this next time and, of course, first of all, with the workers who have actually visited and said that we will talk together in the next few months. We have made an appointment to open such a dialogue, putting aside the fact that there will be no problems over the next two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will be tempted to say this. You say that we are rushing and putting the whole of our proposal and our strategy. Of course, because the issues cannot be solved in fragmentary terms and with'remedies', which the people say. And I say this, because in the election, you said your programme was a 100-day programme. It's been four years, now you've been short on it, and it's been two years. But you also optimize red lines and say that whatever measures we take will be within four years, etc. In any case, make a decision within what timeframe and exactly what you are going to do. Sure, we do. As a result of your policy, firmly committed to the negotiations, etc., you will reach an agreement, you will take measures that will directly reflect them in the social structures of the municipalities and as a whole for the operation of the municipalities. What are we talking about? Here, 60% to 70% reduced resources to local government. They're incarcinating right now. Most social structures are almost nonexistent, at risk of closing or passing on to this new fruit through the contractors of social cooperatives. But the issue of funding - beware - has various aspects. It is not simply 'we'll give money'. I will tell you attributes that there is a very large reduction in income limits as a prerequisite, for a child to be approved and for an AIFM or AIFM to be integrated. In 2012-2013 the family income limit was EUR 35,000, in the period 2013-2014 it decreased to EUR 30 000, in the period 2014-2015 it decreased to EUR 27,000. As a result of all these reductions, thousands of children were excluded from the structures. If it is to reduce the children every year, and by analogy, the government will come and say, "Do you know, how many children are? - Eh, that's how funding will be!" that's not the way it is. Here's the funding. Will it be given on the basis of the real needs each local society has? That is the main issue. There's an issue with the voucher system. You know, it's the child's placement order. The subsidy has been reduced from EUR 2,800 per child to EUR 1,400, so that the children who are serving have been reduced and, of course, the services have been downgraded. It is clear - and I say 'hell' again - that there will be a further reduction in two-thirds. You must tell us: 'Is that true or not?' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Moreover, the working issue of workers has too many aspects. It's hard to do work, it's escalating working hours. They are unpaid many times, their payment is delayed, their payroll. And, you know, it is linked to the repayment of the EBRD instalments to either private-law legal entities, public-law legal entities or municipalities. And sometimes these doses are delayed, they are frozen under the responsibility of operators, and sometimes, I would say, they are uncontrollablely channelled, as I have said before with the public authorities, into other actions which result in structures workers remaining unpaid from months to years - and this had happened - a fact which, of course, also violates labour legislation itself. There is, of course, the legal framework governing workers' contracts. Based on the Act of Ministerial Council 33/2006, which has been suspended all recruitments make it difficult to renew contracts, which is an additional problem. All this together, if you want, this insecurity scheme, together with the programming form of most of the social actions, prevents the development and initiative of the workers, even though people are making a titanic effort to preserve these social structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u52	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u53	And, of course, they must defend their employment status. And I tell you this, because they have recently been made redundant by the management of the Cooperatives of the Municipality of Zakynthos, two employees from ASEAN, I would say, in the face of vengeance towards these two workers, because they had gone to work, because they had not paid any wages. In other words, proof of what I have said before, of the delay in paying the accrued sums. As a result, I'm coming back. To solve the problem of funding, are you in a position to take a number of measures such as to meet the real needs of these structures and to solve their employment issue, rather than refer it to two years, yes or no? That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u55	Look, others will be guaranteed now, but we will study them and ensure them on the road as quickly as possible. That can only be the answer, you know that. What would be unacceptable, however, would be to continue, for example, the reduction in income that you said, namely this bow, starting from 35,000 - I am thinking of the relevant tables - and it has gone to 27 000. What's going on? Then we were in the previous House. Mrs Manolakou knows. Because it has always been stable, every year, because of a crisis - I tell you that these structures have begun and the needs have increased - there has been a division and in order to cover all children's income coughing, which, of course, has finally left children out of the way and has created an outbreak of social injustice. It is obvious that we will not continue to do that. I would like to see, if you have any evidence that, through the EBRD programmes, which was the intermediate management body of the programme, they were given priority or are given to the municipalities in time or less, which either are either broken up or go to other needs - obviously there are needs at the level that you said - and are not given in good time, as is the case with payroll, the operation, etc., to present them to us - I mean, in particular, to the Ministry - because I really do not exclude any such holes. Yesterday, for the preliminary example, they were submitted from Thursday at noon and by Saturday morning I went out to 6.15 seconds in the morning to the ANT1 and others, who said they had not been deposited. Because in the intervening period, there are some routes which, until they reach the municipalities and people who receive allowances, etc., often become long delays. On the issue of industrial relations, which you have said, and on the reply that Kostas Pulakis gave, it is obviously unconstitutional - and we all know it - that contracts should take place in indefinite time automatically. It is clear that our own policy and yours and all of us in this respect, when we want to do and permanent jobs need to be provided for, of course, with a special, large modulation of the workers there, the normal procedures through the ADP tables. In other words, it should not be done automatically, nor should it be done in constitutional terms. But that is not a coma. When we actually enter the process of permanent staff - which we fully agree - we will find the legal way, these same workers who have given their souls over there, to be the core of the world that will be there. Let me tell you again that we should be in constant dialogue with the bodies there - you did it, we do it too - so that we can move forward and meet all the needs that exist. That's our will. I told you about bias on our part. That is what we are interested in, which is why we are here as a left-wing force, and I think we will succeed. It would not be possible to do this in these months, and since there is this programme - regardless of whether we take money - because we are on a programme as a country by 30 June and you know it very well. For many issues, for example the recruitments - you remember the circular we sent with the minus 10%, it was not about these structures, but I am talking about the whole of the municipalities - we are working with memorandum laws in these months, even though - and rightly so, no one would say - we do not have the funding, we did not ask for them, etc. Until the end of June this is the regime. We know that very well. We're doing our things in a way and we're planning a lot better things than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u56	Thank you to the Minister and Mr Synthyakis. In a fair judgement of the Bureau, we will propose the question addressed to Mr Ioannis Panos. The Minister's been here since 6 p.m. Mr. Spirtzis isn't here, and he's after a recovery from what I've heard. The seventh question, then, will be discussed at no. 155/28-4-2015, on the second question of MP II Piraeus, of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamantos Manolakos, to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, on measures to be taken for the new anti-nuclear period. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Panoussis. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. The truth is, the anti-nuclear period started. He may be singing outside, but we're already in this particular period. But the state agencies, which are responsible, and the Forest Service and the Fire Corps, have many shortcomings. I'm not saying it's your fault, you inherited them. The policy of the previous governments has degraded the Forest Service to the detriment of integrated protection of forest ecosystems. They have become anti-grassy, reactionary, anti-terrestrial changes in legislation, to the detriment of forest ecosystems for the profits of the businessman and, of course, the commercialisation of forests has also been intensified, which means a deterioration in prevention and fire-fighting. Minister, the deficiencies in permanent forest staff and logistics have increased. But even in the Fire Corps, it's not much better. Government expenditure annually decreases. There is a lack of staff, there are serious problems both in infrastructure and in facilities and in maintenance and repair of machinery. In addition to all this, there are also unpaid hours of service, as well as a large number of staff due. Instead of improvements, we have mergers or even abrogation of fire stations and stairways, which turn into seasonal ones for the existence of an economy. In order to protect the government, it is necessary to ensure the prerequisites for integrated protection by tramplers and the management of forest ecosystems, with the sole responsibility of the State, but also to abolish all ‘forests’ laws and regulations. What we are asking today with the timely question from you is to learn the planning of the government and to cover the gaps, with the recruitment of the necessary personnel, with stable working relationships both in the Forest and in the Fire Corps, so that there is integrated management and protection of forest ecosystems, as well as an integrated preparation of the state's fire-fighting mechanisms, ensuring the necessary funding from the state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The Minister has the floor, Mr Ioannis Panousis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u59	Dear honourable Member, the block of deterrence for us is information, awareness, mobilisation and prevention. Then comes the repression of the fires and the catastrophic catastrophes. Today we had a wide-ranging meeting and meeting of all the actors involved in the anti-nuclear period. I will read to you some of the representatives: In addition to the Ministry of Interior, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, the Ministry of Public Works, the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, the Special Secretariats of Forestry, Forestry, the Ministry of Shipping, the Decentralised Administration of Attica, development links etc. So, then, we're bringing us near the state, all the agencies. This year, we will have an extra "Canadian" and two own-owned helicopters of the Fire Corps, which will also bring a bin and can be used in the firefighting. We have put particular emphasis on informing citizens, as I have told you, and on volunteering. One home is almost ready and we have asked that, apart from television, the ferry ships be played for passenger information. We have asked national road managers to warn, through electronic toll tables. We have asked the Ministry of Education, with its circular, to inform primary and secondary pupils of the awareness of young people. This spot will also be played by the websites of the municipalities and regions. Also, the issue of circulars to the stakeholders is more complete and detailed to help prevent and deal with them. There has been a revision and adaptation of the guidelines for organised citizens' removal, for reasons of protection against evolving or imminent destruction due to forest fires - according to the law - and it has been upgraded, based on the experience of previous years. The funds have been allocated to the municipalities and the associations since 30 April. For the deficiencies of the Fire Corps, which are the result of the last period of policies and is a cumulative result, we run the procedures and we are daily above, if we can prevent some supplies relating to the safety of staff. The recruitment of the thousands of five hundred seasonal fire extinguishers, which will strengthen the Fire Force from June 1st and for five months, has been signed. The five-year recruitment process of the thirty-two-two-two-two-two-two-tiers of the Fire Corps is in the final stage, as is the thirty-four permanent fire extinguishers. This year, volunteer groups will be trained in the Register of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, which were not certified last year. It has been signed by Mr Spirtzi, which allows for exceptional use of the work machinery by members of the voluntary groups of civil protection and municipal personnel, under conditions and criteria, so that they can be used to prevent and deal with fires. Mr Lafazani has signed the allocation of the money from the Green Fund for the cleaning and maintenance of forest roads. As you can see, honourable Member, all efforts are being made both on the state side and on the side of synergy with all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Manolakou has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u61	Minister, of course, there must be information and awareness, because we have spent a year with too many rains, vegetation will be too rich and the danger will therefore be much greater. But that is not enough, because when the critical phenomenon arises, that is, fire, you must also have people and the means to deal with it. So I tell you that we will have full protection when you go to recruitment. You're talking about a thousand five hundred recruits on June 1st. I ask you: When will these people be able to train? After all, in Mr Katrugalos' bill, which has become a law, you could have gone through a recruitment plan much earlier in order to fill the gaps and the Forest Service, which has the prevention - and of course we must pay great attention to prevention - but also to the large gaps in the Firehouse. The Fire Corps has many problems. I say this because there is a need for an increase in staff. Technology and the workforce also need to be ensured, but the necessary logistics infrastructure also needs to be provided by providing the necessary funds. I am telling you this because I wonder how the fire department will respond with reduced crew compositions. They have obsolete equipment, there's no proper maintenance, and the result is you know what it is? There should be injuries, even deaths of firefighters. In Mytilini there is still a firefighter, a victim of a breathing device. As far as the municipalities are concerned, the ball goes to the municipalities, but without having the resources and the staff. There are municipalities here that can't even pick up the trash. And if you say that you are using the previous government's designs, I will remind you that the "XENOKARATIS" project was considered ineffective, just from the next year of its preparation in the most tragic way: in the very large fires of 2007 and 2009. We ask you to see them again, to take additional measures, so that we do not mourn later, as the government as a whole sees in and from the other Ministries of changing the legal framework, which is a pest in order to abolish these laws. You haven't told me what amounts you're using. I'm telling you, because our information is hopeless. When, as the forestists themselves say, 6 billion euros are used without VAT, for fire protection throughout the country through the Forest Service, it is not even 0.10%. And after all, it's interesting to see how many acres of forest are burned and what reafforestations have been made. Finally, because you told me about containers and air-fighting, it is important to study the evidence they give officially, according to which 90% of the Attica fires were erased by the ground forces. Why? Because they could reach the area where the fire has erupted in fifteen minutes. Aircraft takes about forty - five minutes, which means that a critical time has been lost, literally. Also, the cost of air-fighting is seven and ten times more expensive than the cost of ground fire extinguisher. You must therefore rethink the methods which have been condemned by life itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u63	I would like to respond to the subject of mergers and abolitions. We are not going to do such things for economic reasons. After the anti-nuclear period we will reorganise and become involved with the participation of stakeholders, OTA workers (a) and (b) specialist scientists, and we will have as criteria the territorial configuration, vegetation, risk or effects of previous periods. There has been a permanent process since 1998 on education and training. The Forest Service doesn't belong to us. You know very well that firefighting is not just about disasters and the protection of the natural wealth of the environment from general risks. So, we're trying to strengthen the firefighters' morale. We've already announced the homogenisation. We are going to upgrade the Academy - so the educational system - and we are trying to make a better spread of fire-fighting vehicles, better manning of mixed seasonal patrols, together, as I said, with local government and environmental organisations. So, what does he need us? We need coordination between the forces involved in the extinguishing, rational management and appropriate use of the resources we have, which we know are not at present the best possible, but we have even taken refuge in the European Union, if - the non-sustainable! - we are in need of a cover, as in the past, from countries such as France, Italy, etc. On the other hand, the operational design of the Fire Corps covers the entire national air fleet, where they have been developed in the metric units and in the stairways, following the availability by the Air Force General Staff, as well as the rented fire helicopters. So the dispersion is given. The plan is for granted. The provision of the personnel of the Fire Corps of the proper equipment, protective equipment and personal equipment are prerequisites and we are trying to make sure that nothing is missing. I repeat, something will always be missing, but what will not be missing will be design, coordination and morality. We shall try, therefore, even in very exceptional needs, which I hope we do not have, and in the management of consequences for forest fires, to unite our forces, so that we can make this year, with as few fires as possible and with less risk of the country's natural wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. We are entering the two topical questions addressed to Mr Spirtzi. By decision of the Conference of Presidents, current questions which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary shall be discussed one after the other. It will now develop the first with number 185/5-2015 topical question of the first cycle of MP Boeotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Stathas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the price of the tolls of the Regional Unit of Boeotia. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Christos Spirtzis. Colleague, Mr Statha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have a very important problem, which you also know as President of the Chamber of Technical Chamber, which you have been all these years. The robbery and unconstitutional, often contracts which have been signed over the years and which have been awarded the national roads have led us to have at this time as high a fee on tolls so that drivers cannot use them either the ordinary citizens who want to be transported, the workers, the farmers, and the goods. As a result, at least in the area of Boeotia, the old highway, where it is built to take cars forty years ago and not now. This means that traffic accidents have increased to a very large extent, that we also have accidents in the regional unity of Boeotia, in the villages that go through, as well as in the area of Fthiotida. What I would like to point out to you is that, a problem that has previously existed on the Malian Gulf's so-called'mortem petal', has now been transferred to the old national road. This is therefore a fact that results from the high toll price. And that's not a request of ours that I might disagree and want something more powerful. You know the fight we're doing against tolls and toll price. However, what we are asking for at this moment as a local society, the MPs and the regional unity of the municipalities, where this resolution has also been adopted, like the Regional Director of Stereas and the Regional Council of Thessaly, is to see what the government will do and what action it has taken. Surely, it can't be within two or three months that you've taken over, to change the contracts. But we want you to inform us what has so far been done with these conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Statha. Mr Christos Spirtzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Statha, you are absolutely right about the issues you are addressing and concentrating on one paragraph. In particular, you are right about the high toll prices, about the charge on the provincial network, through villages and towns and about traffic accidents, because of this charge. On the occasion of your timely question, it would be good to highlight both the information of Parliament and the Greek people that it was planned by the previous government to deal with the subject, particularly the Regional Unit of Boeotia with a new concession, a new motorway from Elefsina to Thebe, with the same features and problems as existing motorways. This new concession, with an alibi of the great traffic load on the provincial network, would provide an alternative to the passing cars to and from the Peloponnese and Western Greece, as well as a large part of Attica to Central and Northern Greece. However, its implementation would have two consequences: the first is the existence of large tolls as well as existing concession projects. The second would be the creation of claims from the new road, i.e. Ionia, because of the reduction in its traffic burden, that is to say we would make a new concession, and the previous concession would also call for new money and a new toll increase, because the burden would be reduced. Therefore, a solution was planned that would bring toll growth in PATHE, new claims by the concessionaires from the Greek State and worsening the problem. I will repeat once again the objectives we have set as a government for the negotiation of all concessions and it is six: the first is the creation of a pan-Hellenic hybrid analogue toll system, uniform throughout the country's highways. The second is to reduce tolls. The third is the use of indicators of economic progress, in relation to the toll price methodology, i.e. the use of another model than it exists today and the price of tolls, which do not take into account either the economic situation of the citizens or the country, is automatically calculated by the concessionaire. The fourth point is to have free passages to our specific categories of fellow citizens, such as LEADER and others. The fifth point is that citizens can cross the geographical limits of a municipality free of charge, because we have municipalities with six to seven toll stations. This, of course, presupposes a proportionate system and we are considering alternatives so that we can resolve the problem until it is done. The latter is the introduction of a specific number of free passages, depending on what we are going to do and how permanent residents of certain regions can have free access to their work. In order to achieve this, we are currently preparing specialized projects per concession and proposals in order to call on concessionaires to negotiate. By the way, too, I would like to say a few more things to you that changing these conventions is not an easy process. The parties are not only the Greek State, the contractors or the concessionaires. They're private banks too. The European Investment Bank is also on two motorways. I believe, however, that because what we are proposing, the direction we have as a government, is something that is mutually beneficial to both Greek society and the Greek public and to projects, there will be acceptable and there will be another logic in these projects, which are, in essence, public works and public infrastructure. If the concessionaires want, in my opinion, to have a truly sustainable situation both in works and in Greek society, they will meet both the demands of Greek society and the positions of the government. Otherwise, we're going back into a sad phase of projects that we've experienced in the past, only this time society won't be alone. It will have the support of both the government and the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Minister. This ambitious hexametre for tolls is soon to be realised, because a lot of people are sighing and unable to respond. Mr. Statha, I have to announce official recruitments from Thessaloniki and you'll take the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and students and nine teachers from the 2nd Elementary School of Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki and from the 2nd Municipal School of Neapolitan Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them and wishes them health and good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Statha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u69	Indeed, what we have heard from the Minister is very ambitious, in relation to what we have seen in the past, but it is the least we can do, so as to put an end to this shamefulness that these companies are currently doing against the Greek people. And, indeed, what I would like you to answer is what specific plan you have, in addition to the proposals you are going to make - and to implement them - and what timetable you are going to take. Because we've heard all of this in the past. We had announcements from previous government ministers, where, instead of getting toll cut, we were constantly increasing. There's one more thing I'd like you to answer if we open a new toll on Schematari - Chalkida street. What about the tolls that have been made, the sides mainly, which are not even useful? They must be abolished. For me, no one is useful and everything must be abolished, but we are talking about what all the institutions have denounced. So what we would like from your side, because today you have said too much, is a specific timetable. What will surely happen is that if the government really believes that it wants to do what you said, it will also be the local society, the local bodies - I will also present a resolution from the Central Greek Central Bank, which say almost what you have announced, that is to say, the local society - so that we can implement it together. Because what I always say is that society must not assign neither to Parliament nor to the government. He must claim. Certainly here, through social pressure, they will reach the high price of tolls, as well as the memorial policies, where they have granted more and want to grant other assets of the Greek people. I don't want to say anything else. I want to hear the Minister's response to the time when these commitments are being implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Statha. Minister, would you like to fill in something else?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u71	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u72	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u73	The first is, Mr Statha, that the new toll stations, the level of tolls, the supervision of projects, as the contracts have done, do not go through the Greek public. I want this to be clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u74	It doesn't pass, did you say, from the Greek public?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u75	Yeah. They are made automatically by the concessionaires. This is a disgrace to the Greek State, but that's what we've inherited. You asked me for a specific timetable. The timetable that we can commit is for what has to do with our own business. We therefore consider that, in about a month's time, a first plan with concrete elements will be prepared to put them at the negotiating table in relation to the concessionaires and call them for a dialogue. We are also planning to have a tender in order to have a technical consultant in relation to all five concessions, to see the international experience, because what we have in our country is probably unprecedented, especially in the part of the conventions. If there is agreement with the concessionaires, there must be a corresponding negotiation with the banks and institutions of the European Commission. It is neither an easy procedure nor a draft law nor a one-week debate, which both or four parties to concessions can resolve. That is why we will also call for the tolerance of Parliament and of the Greek society for a short period of time in order to take such action.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u76	You're done, Minister. Thank you. Here is the second question with number 188/5-2015 of the second question by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr. Panagiotis (Noti) Mitaraki to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on delays in the expansion of the airport of Chios. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister Deputy, the expansion of Chios airport is an essential component for the development of the island, which seeks new sources of income within the crisis. It is an island with many comparative advantages, but it has not yet managed to develop tourists. As regards the previous government, in 2014, within the timeframe with which we were committed, we received all the land needed to expand the runway, the expropriations were completed, the landowners were paid and the necessary miscarriages were made so that in December the Ministry of Finance fully received the land and handed it over to the Civil Aviation Service. The project to extend the corridor therefore finally entered the implementation phase. At the beginning of January, the Civil Aviation Service was committed to conducting the tendering of the work of fence, leveling the extent and collection of the materials so that the procedure for building the runway is now ready. As you know, there is already a thorough study, there is the master plan and additional projects are expected: the completion of the study, the preparation of the study on the reform of the existing airport, the bypass of the coastal road at the point nearing the expansion of the runway and, fourthly, the completion of the expropriations on the southern side, which is designed to park more aircraft. These projects are already in the mid-term programme of the Civil Aviation Service. Nothing, however, has happened in 2015. I'd think it's, like, a normal delay because of the change of government. Of course, I must stress that the ineffective negotiation that you are negotiating under the Eurogroup has led the country to a very large lack of liquidity and possibly this is due to the delay. However, I have heard officials from the local SYRIZA, after decades in which we are discussing the extension of the airport, calling again for consultation from the beginning, which will not only speed up the implementation of the project, but will also bring new delays. Minister, the citizens of Chios ask a very simple question: do you intend to go ahead with the implementation of the project or the airport will be another infrastructure project that will be stricken by ideological claws? And, if so, what timetable do you intend to proceed with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. This concerns the Hiroids, Minister. I was there recently, and I was put to it, and I was told to raise the matter with Mr Spirtzi. I therefore plead for what he said, Mr Metarakis. You have the floor, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, you have a privileged relationship with the local communities of the Tower, Chios and many others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u80	Especially Chios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u81	Mr Metarakis, I understand your anxiety to show your actions in your constituency, but four months ago you were Minister of Development, so you have an absolute knowledge of what you are asking us. Also, in the Civil Aviation Service, which is the responsible agency, we have not yet changed administration. We have flaws in this. You have, however, also received the reply for this project from the service, which shows that a technical study is required to extend the landing runway. That is not how a project can be done. For the implementation of the project, too, a study is required on the relocation of the beach road. You also know that this project, which you say has entered a series, is a project that has been discussing and struggling for over twenty years, if I remember well from the previous experience I had. You also know that the PSC budget is approved. So there is no delay. And at the end of the service's reply it is stated that the above project has been proposed to join the 2014-2020 Programming Period. What now is not known and for which you must be informed - if you are not aware of it - but I believe that you know it - and the Greek Parliament is that, despite the fact that it had to give as national participation some 90 million in three projects, namely, at the airport of "MAKEDONIA" in Thessaloniki, Chania and Skiathos, it had not given a single euro as national participation, with the result that, because they had not been assigned this money, they would have put the projects that you were supposed to carry out. And I've heard in other projects that you're committed to moving on, other smaller and larger. Where? With what money? With the debts we inherited? Therefore, the works of airports, and even less costly, elementary infrastructure, for this period of tourism, such as there are human and decent sanitary spaces, freshly-built buildings and the necessary equipment that helps them to operate, is very difficult to cover with the financial burdens of the HR from the years of your administration. That is why, Mr Mitarakis, when we say that we have found mined and undermined works, it is not a political position, but it is the harsh reality. You will see the service's answer and you will see that there will be no problem with the project, just procedures are time-consuming. Of course, we also have to finish with the final list of projects for the V Programming Period. You also mentioned - and I conclude by saying - that there has been an exhaustive dialogue between the party and the local society, which is going to be added to earlier statements, etc. In fact, it seems that executive power is exercised by the party in local societies and not by the government. I don't know what local SYRIZA is doing in Chios, but what would you like a party to do at local level? Don't talk to local society about the development issues of their country? To be in the sense of enforcing whatever view the government has for either society, industry or any matter? Mr. Metarakis, there is another government, the government has another perception, it has another political morality and it has another dialectical relationship with society. I would also suggest your own party in Chios and elsewhere to open a dialogue with the citizens on the development issues that exist in each region. The time when there was no dialogue with anyone has come to an end with the end and the completion of the Samara - Venizelos government and it is not going to come back. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u83	Minister, I really accept that I have an agony. I have a great deal of anxiety to do in my place. You, however, must have a greater anxiety to produce work in the Ministry where you are and not to be confined to opposition to opposition. Because, as I told you in my prototype, in 2014 what I had to do, as Secretary of State for Development, did so. The expropriations have been completed, I have received the land, we have given it to the Civil Aviation Agency and in January it sent to those responsible for the fence work and you have still not approved it. This seems to be not in the notes given to you, because the project, yes, wants the study to be completed in order to make the runway, but, in order to make the fence and start the project, there was already a ready tender and you simply did not, because you have deprived the necessary funds in the country, to go ahead with this project. More generally, with regard to airports, you have referred to many problems, and that is why the privatisation of airports has had to go ahead and you are losing months, and in the end you will probably be doing so, but you will lose another season for Greek tourism. Minister, the Constitution and the Isle of Island - you also have the Deputy Minister of the Aegean - it requires that we do more for our islands, not less. Transport, movement for the islands is a vital issue, coastline and airports. So this was supposed to be a higher priority for you. But what does this government do? He is about to impose special tax on the Aegean islands alone, special rules on the use of a credit card on the islands alone, applying anti-constitutional, if leaks are correct, the island clause. But for Chios you have not only done this, to freeze the airport work. Apparently, the party runs the government, because the freeze shows that you are falling on the local SYRIZA and not on the need for the whole island, which has been expressed with far greater than our party majorities. You are moving on to the cancellation of the foreign-language Department of Shipping at the University of the Aegean, a very important development measure that the Greek Parliament and this government have voted for, as the Minister says, in return for the island wants to freeze. But speaking of your sector, in just a hundred days you have managed to lose on our island over 4 million euros of European projects and as long as the bill is growing. This is the mini-revenue of the first hundred days, a catastrophic account for Chios, which cannot be justified by allegations of so-called pressing timetables. You did not have the political will to do it and you did not. I will give you some examples. The first is a project of 475 thousand euros for digital recording, imaging and optimising mastic farming. The second example is the program of 350,000 euros for digital services management and promotion of the cultural stock of Chios through the Holy Metropolitan of Chios, Psara and Inousses. The third example is a EUR 560 000 programme to strengthen the television signal in areas of the northern Aegean. You know, in Chios, Turkish radio sounds everywhere, while Greek in a few areas. We incorporated it. You answered it. You also replied to a EUR 1.5 million project for an integrated Northern Aegean Region information system for the electronic management of civil procedures and affairs. Fifthly, you replied EUR 240 000 for the Chios CCEE and I read today that we will respond to a EUR 1.2 million project, despite Mrs Koudoura's opposing assurance of the protection of the port of Volissos in Chios as a subproject to the Technical Bulletin of the Act for the Restoration of Tourist Ships in Volissos Chios. In your dentistry, you have the right to say what you want, but I hope you do not lose your three minutes by opposition to the opposition, saying what you received, because if you cannot pick up what you received and do better for the place, perhaps you should not want to be a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Metarakis, I will not object to the opposition, but here we are talking about insanity. One thing that we will not do is to copy you in lies to the Greek people in relation to supposedly "running". Nor is there any way that we can replicate you in a succinct direction of the projects that you have included, and in fact almost pre-electionally, like all the CBELs - that is, a project to repeat fifty times, as many as the counties of the country, and to pay for it 50 times? - or what you said about the Holy Fish Metropolitan and all the sacred metropolitans, which you had reincorporated, as a result, projects outside the timetables and much more. What they replied was not selective, because you wanted to make ruffles. What they replied was why they were off schedule. What does that mean? It means that because the NSRF ends this year, as in the Third Community Support Framework, as in this Programmatic Period, what is not completed is the responsibility of the Public Investment Programme. Since the third Community Support Framework, we have to pay EUR 1.5 billion, Mr President. We calculate another EUR 2.5 million from the chosen acts of the previous government and the previous governments. Congratulations! But here you are also accusing us of other issues. Are you accusing us of answering a programme for Chios TV? Really? So we replied to having the "DIGEA" equipment that would pay the Greek state to get it from private channels? And you're saying so already? In other words, it is not enough to make the crime with frequencies, it is not enough to draw up a map of television frequencies almost half of what the country should have and not half Greece does not see, it is not enough that an illegal person has become - not to say anything worse - a competition with one more for frequencies, you tell us that we have also responded to the work! What work, in other words, Mr President? Paying Greek State, regions and municipalities, equipment, maintenance and operating costs of a private company, DIGEA, to finance them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u86	Who are the shareholders of DIGEA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u87	Seven channels. It's going crazy! For the works that Chios loses! Mr. Metarakis, Chios doesn't miss the works. These works that Chios must have, and all of Greece, will have. The ones you served all these years will not have the works as they were used to. As far as this project is concerned - because we are talking about madness - I am forced to read one - a line of suggestion of the service with the old administration. If you want to question Mr. Cookie, I will be delighted to hear you. You appointed him. Therefore, the recommendation from the service said: ‘First, expansion, restructuring and improvement of the airport's and the environment's buildings and environment, an estimated budget of EUR 1.5 million. The technical study of the project is carried out by our service and is in the process of completion. The tendering procedure, when the study is completed, i.e. 'will take place after its approval'. Congratulations on your spectacular work towards Chios! [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] ‘Secondly, work to maintain a field of manoeuvre, a budget of EUR 2.88 million. The technical study of the project has been approved and the relevant expenditure has been pending in order to auction the project. Thirdly, an extension of the take-off runway of an estimated EUR 10 million budget. It is necessary to draw up a technical study at the stage of completion of preliminary work," it takes about two years to complete!, "such as topographical and geotechnical studies. The necessary area to be built has already been expropriated.’ Congratulations on your spectacular work for Chios airport! ‘For the implementation of this study, another coastal road shift study is also required to ensure the operation of the runway. Through the Ministry to which we have sent available planning data, a study of the work of the parallel displacement of the external coastal road related to the project is promoted." All this to do with the project. And that's back! Again congratulations on the spectacular work of the previous government for Chios airport! "In addition, our service has approved the study of leveling..." - "Society" - I say, but here it is for another - "and fence the expropriated 193,000 budget area and pending expenditure approval for the implementation of the project." That's why we're gonna apologize! Because we found 90 million missing from the works that the OSH should have given! And finally, these projects have been proposed to join the N' Programming Period 2014-2020. Mr. Metarakis, and the people of Chios, the northern Aegean and all of Greece know about your spectacular work. You didn't answer what I told you about the PSC, and you know it. And the consequence would be for the three projects - because the PSC had not given the 90 million - to ask for all the money that the European Union has put in, that is, 95%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u88	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u89	And apparently there's no reason to locate only in Chios your whole spectacular work. It's for all of Greece and the entire Greek society and that's why sit on these benches! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u91	The President-in-Office is given the floor, Mr Mitarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to explain what the personal issue is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u93	I think you're right to have the floor for a minute. In the acidity of your word, he watched you creatively and effectively. So because I find you a little wrong, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u94	As a reader he must defend his metropolitans!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u95	Mr Metarakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u96	Because it's personal, I'm not going to talk about the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u97	There's staff in this process. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u98	The Minister accused me of lying, and we serve. It seems that the Minister himself confirmed that he has awarded the six projects I have said. He confirmed that he has not approved the costs to make the airport fence. And we do serve the inhabitants of Chios by extending the corridor, mastic producers with the work of mastics, the Holy Metropolis of Chios, Psaron and Inousses by digital recording, the citizens of Chios who do not see a digital signal, because the contract of "DIGEA" obliges the "DIGEA" to cover 98% of the population. There is another 2% of the population, which was to be covered by it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u99	95%, Mr. Metarakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u100	Also, the information system of the northern Aegean Sea and the theme of the CCEL serves the inhabitants and the port of Volissos. That's not where the big boaters go, it's the fishermen. So I didn't tell you any lies and we're serving the world of Chios. Please withdraw personal designation. In politics you have every right to have your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u101	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, Mr Mitterrand can see in the Minutes that it was not personal the peak, but in relation to the previous government. That's why I'm not withdrawing it! Nor did he respond to those who serve nor to interests. And they obviously do not serve the people of Chios, when what you read just now, because they were off schedule, would be paid by the citizens themselves from the Public Investment Programme. So how do you serve? You say to someone: "Come on integrating your program" into the mastic producers, for example, who are really producers and must be supported, "and not prevent until October of this year, and don't get bored, we'll put them in the EDP." And who's gonna pay for it? In order to make it melt, for the Greek people to understand it. Who's gonna pay for it? Anyone else? Instead of taking up European money, we should pay them! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] It is a very nice tactic, for other times and for politicians who are used to and addicted to old-fashionedism. We are not going to lie to the Greek people or to the other projects you mentioned. I would like to make one final comment. Mr Metarakis, it is not 98% of the DIGEA convention. You also changed that, although the European regulations say 98%. You've been 95%. And 3% of the country's population and not the country's geographical area are too large, especially for the outermost regions of our country, such as the region you represent here. And that is why too many areas are not in. Who has, Mr President, favoured this? The person who made the investment, i.e. DIGEA. Thank you, Mr Mitarakis, for all that you have revealed today, for 98%, which was in the government's plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u103	It was one of the most important topical questions that I have presided over, but Spirtz is not easy, Mr Mitarkis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u104	It's never been easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u105	The second under No 187/5-2015 topical question for the first cycle of MP Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegenakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the deprivation of the 14 regional airports, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with number 172/30-4-2015, top-stage question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the legislative safeguarding of disability pensions and the incompatibility of first-stage residence, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The sixth question under number 168/28-4-2015 is the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on "the assignment of our Macedonian name to the Skopje", not discussed by the Minister and deleted. The question by number 1328/3-32015 of the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the privatisation of the Port Authority of Piraeus, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. MP II Athens Evangelos - Vassilis I. Meimarakis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 11-5-2015 to 14-5-2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u106	The House approved the requested permission. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias asks for a short-day absence abroad, in the Netherlands, from 3 June 2015 to 6 June 2015, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u107	The House approved the requested permission. We are now entering the debate of the fifth under No 175/4-5-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Achaias Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the one-stopping of the passage of the port of Rio-Antiri. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Theodores Dritsas. Here, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, perhaps the question is not so topical, because the Minister hastened to listen to the voice of the workers, the institutions and Members who have carried the justified demand of the local society to secure the jobs of these eighty families who are employed in ferry ferry Riu-Antirio and to avoid the one-stopping of this passage by GEO. Mr President, we were born with the vision of the link, the connection between Achaea and Achaea, and we thought that this neighborhood would be one and it would be a blessing. But unfortunately, it proved to be a curse. There are statistics that confess what I just told you. It is no longer a problem for someone to move by the bridge in these memorial times. And, oh the strange miracle, a decision came up and said logically, they have to pass all the trucks and have a balance from the bridge before they board any ferrets, as is the case with the crossing of them from the bridge. So far, this has not been the case. The reasons are many. The Minister knows them, and that is why I suspect that he has tried to adopt the demand of the local society that he has said: yes, of course, a bridge must enter the node and cross the junction, so that they will not be allowed to cross the truck bridge dangerously, so and rather more dangerous if they are overloaded. Because it's not "stick", as it is in ferrybots, but they're "moved" when they cross the bridge. And it is known that the times and north-souths that prevail there are in this Strategic Gulf narrow. That is why, Minister, we welcomed and pleased with your decision. But today, on this occasion of parliamentary scrutiny, we also want you to give the final solution. Because it will indeed be tragic not only for those who may have lost their jobs in the ferry, but, Mr President, and let this Step across Greece be heard free of charge, without a ticket by the citizens, of course, with this little delay, but also the beauty that passes through the traditional way. Because otherwise, the government would unwittingly create a monopoly on this heavy exploitation carried out to those who want to pass from Rio to Antirio or from Antirio to Rio. That is why, Minister, we would soon like to become this new bridge, which will indeed ensure what the legislator says, and rightly so, and nobody says that not all the safe means and measures of handling goods and lorries should be taken by a favoured state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr. Theodores Dritsas. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you have, in fact, perfectly presented the essentials of the issue that you raise in your timely question. Of course you also said that the issue you raise has already been dealt with in time by the Ministry of Shipping. With understanding and fineness of the subject, it has been arranged in a fair and legitimate way, so that a decision that created inequality in regulating the passage through the Ri-Antirio, compared to other regions of Greece, can be restored and moved forward, and a process of definitive resolution can be launched. You're right. This bridge is a great technical project. It is undeniable to participate in the development process of the region. I do not want to reduce its importance, but the cost is very high. And that is why it is no coincidence that the Riu-Antirio ferry line, instead of being operational, was strengthened in particular in recent years of the economic crisis, especially in the transport of trucks and cars. But right here local solidarity worked, the business synergy and people’s needs, and it was customarily established and, in fact, the transportation of persons free of charge. It is something that serves too many people, be it those who work in one or the other area and move in the morning and afternoon hours, either children who go to school, or students. It covers a lot of needs and indeed free of charge. There is a security issue and we must be very careful about it. Bridges are necessary, but unfortunately not all the regions in the country have bridges. I would like to inform you that from the sixty-three port authorities in their region of responsibility throughout the country, they only operate on thirty of them, and even some of them operating in different areas are in suboptimal or technical problems. Therefore, the arrangements should be uniform, covering all regions of Greece in an equal and fair manner. We went ahead. Indeed, the decisions that forced the weighing on nearby bridges and increased transport costs as well as the time and created a very large malfunction, all of which I think were properly assessed by both the Ministry's services and the Port Authority's Headquarters and by me and were regulated and given a real solution at this stage. From there on, we are indeed in a process of transforming and correcting and improving Regulation 14, the General Port Regulation, so that this regulation can be compatible with what is provided for in Law 3446 and so that there is no difficulty for those authorities who have a responsibility to impose legality, to do so. At the same time, the process has been initiated for the Port of Patras, in order to plan and plan for the construction of a bridge, but this will require a longer period of time. I think that we will have a proper arrangement that gives a fair solution, but also ensure the safety of the voyages and do not create safety risks. I cannot promise you that it will take place in the year because it needs planning, it needs to be included in the budget of the Port Authority of Patras, and perhaps this year it cannot be done. However, all efforts are being made to ensure that the procedure and the area are completed in the right place - as you rightly say - that a bridge is built and that the issue is resolved definitively and without problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u111	The Minister answered you differently and sincerely. We should welcome here, with your permission, the primary schools from the beautiful Knight Island. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Standard Municipal School of Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, and for the Minister's reply, I would expect you to express, as you did just before, your delight as Elios. We still consider you as ally because you know the problems of the region very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u113	You're pamphleting this situation - and Messinia and Elias - so we've assigned it to you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u114	But your help and special weight are always useful and your alliance is valuable. I said this because, in his reply, the Minister spoke of the next steps, and that is just as important as the automatic response to the request when submitted by the Ryu-Antirio Naval Patreou Association. Minister, you know that, but I think it needs to be stressed: A four-hour scale, what is it worth if the truck started from Athens and Corinth and in Agios put more goods up and crossed the bridge and left? I would like to stress that, once again, some suspects have moved - and let us take this into account - to create monopolistic conditions. I come to the second point: you spoke about the Port of Patras. You know that very well. A monopoly company of state interest has enough millions of profits - and I hope it always has - so it can move on to them too, as long as it stops packing. I've put up a lot of questions. A package, Mr President, for studies. Studying how they will walk - says - the LEADs in the new port, as if the new port would become with Europe's specifications, without these predictions being made. And I come here to say: to show me the studies that the President of the OLAF has commissioned his term of office, to see what known human corporations are going on, which have reasons to have jobs with the port and the ports, which are multiplying their profits and which are themselves. And I was glad to hear the Minister in the programme statements pointing out these people, "Aetonauts" - even though tigers are called eagles and not eagles, so they call themselves - they have the interests everywhere established and how, without changing a contract in the port of Patras, they get more - listen! - for the services they offer. I'm saying this by the way we have to say it publicly, because I've asked you a lot of questions. And I think, Minister, you're stalling that you're not changing the administration. Is it really appropriate, is it moral, three, four, five days before the election renting of U.S. spaces? I think you should see them, ask them to report you and make checks. I wish it wasn't what they say. But they say there are the parties of the well-known strangers, who have a torque to the smuggling of fuel, well hold and reign.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u116	Mr Colleagues, on your specific question you have been extended to three other - four questions. I think you have all the opportunity to submit them and to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u117	I've submitted them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u118	I won't avoid them. I can tell you that, when the workers of the ferry of Rio Antirios came up and visited the Ministry and raised the issue - among many other issues that concern them - the process was activated at the headquarters of the Port Body and at the Ministry, but also with the Port Fathers Agency and procedures were initiated to deal with it. From there on, the government has plans, steps for both public bodies and for every post in charge of public affairs and, of course, for the Port of Patras. With correct steps, all procedures will go ahead with the administrations of the agencies and with regard to the redesign of critical issues and with regard to controls. I am not referring specifically to the Organization of the Port of Patras, I am referring to all levels. But at the same time I can assure you that, with a sensitivity and initiative of the Prime Minister himself, a systematic process has been initiated for the implementation of the election promise, but the need for the entire passive society for the vindication of many years of struggles - and you know them very well - so that Patras can have the right to the sea front.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u119	Very important
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u120	Therefore, this election commitment by the Prime Minister in his speech to Patras has been launched in order to deal with legal and various other issues which make it difficult for us to overcome them, and indeed to make the desire and vision of the Patriarch in good terms and under guaranteed conditions. This includes not only our Ministry, but also other co-legislative ministries, because, as I have said, various legal issues need to be dealt with so that this announcement can actually be done. I repeat that it is not just an announcement, it is a vision and desire of the entire patronage society. You gave me the opportunity and I think I had to make sure that this has also been launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. We enter the fourth with number 176/4-2015 topical question from the Deputy of Attica of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Paul Haikalis, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the migration policy of the country. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Tasia Christodoulopoulos. Mr. Haikalis, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on Thursday 23-04-2015 a ship was found with ninety-six immigrants off Andros, between Andros and Cape Kaferea. How it was found there is a wonder, because it is not in international waters, but in Greek waters and near Karystos. Karystos Municipality did not accept the immigrants because it did not have the appropriate infrastructure. Thus, the process of switching migrants took place in the Municipality of Rafina. Did Rafina City have infrastructure? Clearly not. Proof of this fact is that the immigrants arrived there, there was no room, because the closed basketball court in Rafina was next to the school and in order to avoid disturbance and disturbance to the citizens they were transferred to the closed gym of Diones, more remote but residential area where there was no doctors' presence. Communication with the Ministry was impossible. Doctors didn't exist. A municipal councillor tried with his own means to provide first aid and examine migrants. More generally, there was a confusion in the whole story. Even until the chemical toilets came, the immigrants went for whatever they needed in the surrounding woodlands that existed. So, beyond this story, if there really is a proper immigration policy, if there are gaps in which "h" policy exists, and how can we correct them and, of course, see the issue of the three slave traders who were arrested on this ship and what has happened with the evolution of their detention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Haikalis. The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Tasia Christododoulopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u124	Mr Haikalis, as I know, you were a Member before and you know whether there was immigration policy in our country. There wasn't. Therefore, I do not think you will expect that this overall immigration policy for the country and at a time of increased flows will be built in three months. You know that at the moment we are in great pressure and we are looking for the ways in which we will be able to have the necessary ways to ensure that people who enter the country and enter safely, but at the same time have those slots so that we can accommodate them decently, so that the Greek society can deal with the problem with the dimensions it has, as a universal, European and finally Greek, and manage it with the rules of legality and humanism. On the occasion of the issue you have raised, I would like to thank the Mayor of Rafina, Mr Pistikidi, the Vice-President of Attica, Mr Philippi, and also the citizens of Rafina, who, in a genuine spirit of solidarity, offered the necessary species to the refugees who were hosted in Rafina and welcomed these people as they should. Because that really is the duty of everyone. I, both in my contacts with the mayors and with the district managers, asked them to really welcome the refugees coming to our country and to offer everything possible for their reception. I don't know, I didn't understand from your position if you put it as dead that Mayor Rafinas welcomed these people, even in places that weren't fully suitable, because, as you know, it was an extraordinary event. As you said, for the first time in the Rafina or Evia region to reach immigrants and refugees. Consequently, a State that has no elementary infrastructure as well as infrastructure in Rafina? What we have said is that when we ask Europe to share the refugees with us and all the Member States to take refugees from Greece and share them so that we do not have all the weight, we cannot, as Greece, share the refugees. We cannot say: 'It's okay to leave them on the islands. The islanders who accept this tumor every day have no space, let them accept it. Everyone else, it's okay, we're far away." And when we are faced with an extraordinary event, as was the specific event that took place on 23 April, we cannot say: 'What is this? Where will they go?’ Yet a gym was found. On Saturday some refugees arrived in Kalamata. Not even in Kalamata, but it came and arrived. They were towed there. What would the mayor say there? "I don't have room"? He said it, but he finally found space. Would he say, "I don't have clothes"? They were wet. We found clothes. Fortunately, all over Greece there are solidarity groups offering clothes, feedingstuffs. There is the Red Cross that is mobilising, and so we do not want to have a humanitarian reception to those people who come from the war to find a safe haven. We have to. We are obliged by international conventions, by the 1951 Geneva Convention, which obliges us of refugees persecuted by war or civil war to welcome them with all the rules laid down in this European Convention. Consequently, when they went to Rafina and the whole world went there to help them, the CDC went and examined them all medically. Apart from CEDEFOP, the NGO "Praksis" also went, which offered them all the medical care. He also went a step back to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and informed them where they can go to seek asylum and what rights they have. I mean, there's been an ice cream. The main thing is that they were ninety - five people, including twenty - one minor and among the minors seven unaccompanied, i.e. without parents, as they had been killed in the war. It was therefore a human tragedy in person. Everyone was mobilized and these people were identified within a day and a half. I do not think that one and a half days for Rafina was a shock to her and that she should be upset, scared, unable to offer the elementary to a Greece where all its islands are in such a tragedy to welcome every day a hundred, two, five hundred people. I would like to say, as far as traffickers are concerned, that they have taken the path of justice. After a regular investigation, they will probably be tried at some point and I think they will be tried with severe penalties, as I know they are all punished on the islands as well when they are arrested. However, as far as these people, who in this tragedy are looking for a safe haven, must understand that as a whole as a Greek society, as cities, as communities, as villages, as small groups of people, we must all realise that we must take a share of responsibility, so that we also have the confidence to claim it from Europe on the request, as we say, 'analogue distribution of refugees and migrants' between all countries - EU members and not just in the countries of the south, which accept pressures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u125	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u126	Minister, you expect the debate to be concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u127	I would like the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u128	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u129	Symptoms of your question make me also responsible for the responsibilities of the Port Authority and for the adequate answer to your question, I would like to take the floor for half a minute. Indeed, this ship wasn't one of the usual ones and it didn't make the usual route. It came from the height of the Fish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u130	It was heard, but I didn't want to mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u131	I can assure you - because I experienced it and had the information constantly - that it was constantly being monitored by the Port Authority. He arrived where he arrived, because until that time he did not have the usual characteristics and had to be monitored and that was the case. In other words, the Port House has also taken part in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u132	It's useful what the Minister told you. You quite rightly said, as the Minister said, that both Mr Filippi and Mr Pisticides and the Municipal Authority, but also all the citizens of Rafina, have not been misled. They warmly responded and reacted. You have the floor, Mr Haikalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u133	No-one disputes this, Mr President, and of course there is no point in Mr Pistikidis, the Mayor, who has done most of what he can to improve the existing situation. I am simply talking about the disruption, which has been and of course is not fat for you, because in three months the Ministry cannot solve such problems. Of course, the country has no immigration policy. That's why we're asking you. Because we live this wave of irregular immigrants - refugees coming to our country, see what we can do. The question continues in the sense that, on the 25th day of the month, the answer we received, when we asked where these people went, was that about sixty-five people left to Amygdaleza, ten - fifteen people went to the Praksis NGO, which has homes and housing, and for some fifteen people it was said, 'Let them go'. Free where? In fact, because there is no transportation over there, the municipality was forced to take a bus to the center of Athens, where they were released with a paper that they would have a cover for a month. So that's the uncertainty we're looking for. And because in the ports of Attica others may come tomorrow, what infrastructure is there? There'll be doctors? Is there gonna be a cop? Are there going to be facilities? That's what we're asking, Minister. We're not asking any more. We do not want to denounce anything personally, but more to see this situation and what Europe will do. It is an issue that we need to see globally, and we need to see it very quickly. Because at the moment, either in Kalamata or in Rafina or elsewhere, society cannot stand. Of course, the problem is moral and personal for Greeks to see strangers in the middle of a city and not to know what to do. They see them homeless, asking for any side effects they might have. Once they don't have papers in their hands and they don't have to stay somewhere, where are they going? Will they be forced to steal? Will they be forced to hurry? Will they be forced to cause problems, which we do not want to think about? These are the questions which are actually asked in this question. And we really want to see which reception areas are or will exist, if there are gaps and how we can help together, so that society is not upset and we are all alert, so that we can deal with such phenomena. That's the big problem. And of course, the condemnation of the traffickers, for us, as we have said, must be exemplary. Because these people cannot get a sentence that will be consumable, opportunistic, epidermal, but it must be a model for the next ones to get to this point. Of course, when they were asked where they were found, they said between Andros and Fish. Between Andros and Fish are the whole Aegean. I mean, no one was able to figure out what was happening from this whole story. Radar isn't there to see how the traffic took place? That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u134	He was under control.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u135	The Minister told you he was under control.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u136	That's what I mean. Is that six? Are there going to be any more of these phenomena? Will this continue? That's the point. Because we say that we are watching, but suddenly - at least so far - influxes exist. And the thing is why these people, others in Amygdaleza, others in "Praksis" and other free in Omonia, were separated. This is also a question which we must ask the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr Haikalis. Madam Secretary, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u138	Look. We have two serious problems right now. One is that while the increased flows have occurred since April 2014 and while the previous government knew that and had promised before the European Union institutions that it would create two and a half thousand hosting positions, it did not create one. He had, therefore, promised that by December 2014 he would create hospitality structures. He didn't even create one. That's the problem. The second problem is that it had to submit proposals for the new financial framework 2014-2020 by October 2014. He didn't testify anything. So we found ourselves when we took over from the government, not only for there to be no housing structures, but also for the proposal for funding to be tabled. So at the moment we are both without structures and without money and at the same time with the increased flow of refugees and immigrants. So at the moment, we are trying to deal with both these shortcomings: lack of structures and lack of money. That was why we came out with so much noise and with public calls to the municipalities and regions to help everyone, where refugees and immigrants are entering, to provide the possibility of a direct hospitality, and we with the forces that we have tried in this time to create what we can do. So we managed to have an old hotel area in Kos, an old villa that was given us in Lero, a place for unaccompanied minors who started today in Thessio and three other places that we will take in June. These were with over-treat, with no money, trying to make use of all the possibilities. At the moment, what we need to understand is that when refugees come from the Turkish coast, the Syrians, they are in some boulders. When they enter Greek territorial waters, they pierce these boats and fall into the sea. From that moment on, the port is obliged to save them. So it then transfers them to the land. The entire compulsory procedure provided for by Greek law, as well as by European directives, takes place on land. They're getting fingerprints, they're being identified and classified, and all six months' temporary residence permits are provided. This is the policy on the islands decided by the police. Here in Rafina, either the Police Director or the Department of Immigration - I do not know who, because I do not decide to do so - has really separated the people and others who were clearly refugees from Syria from Syria from their homes to go to asylum - because you cannot submit asylum to Amydaleza, you must have the freedom to move, get a number of priorities and all that - and others that were not clearly refugees - took them to Amydaleza.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u139	Only one of them was from Syria. It was Iraq, Afghanistan and Iran.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u140	If, however, these are from civil war areas - which are considered refugee-profile countries, depending on which region of Afghanistan they are, if the Taliban is doing any interventions, if they are in Iraq, which is a civil war - then in many of these areas asylum services are given asylum, not to everyone, but to the region that comes from. So there is this whole contradiction about whom they give and who they keep in detention centres, which we have not yet consolidated in a single detention policy. This, however, tends to be homogenised now that a new Immigration Secretary has entered the police with which we will have more specific cooperation. The main thing, however, is that we lack the resources, because we now have spaces in place. In fact, we are told by the private. They give us private properties that stay open and tell us "take them to host". In order to host, however, we need to find funds for feeding, supervising property, so that there is a man there to predict, put a social worker on the fund, and there is nothing in the fund. We are now waiting for the extraordinary funding decided on in the European Union at the last meeting of Prime Ministers and Ministers, to which I have represented the country. This extraordinary funding we expect, so that money can be released to finally build these structures, and that people will be hired to our services, which are collapsed. At the moment, asylum has collapsed as a service, because it was with a staff for the current flows and now with increased flows it cannot serve all those who seek asylum. We really must all understand that this is an extraordinary treaty and we must behave accordingly in this extraordinary treaty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr Haikalis. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-11-S1-commons.u142	With the consent of the House at 21.14 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Tuesday, 12 May 2015, at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
