ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. The topical and urgent debate will be announced and their debate will be scheduled for next Friday, June 5th, 2015. I would remind the House that, with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, the current questions which are deleted due to a failure of Ministers are redefined for discussion at the next meeting that the Ministers can answer. The timeliness questions deleted today are: First of all, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Lafazani. The reasoning is objective, because there is a scheduled journey. This is the first with number 228/18-5-2015 of the second cycle and the third with number 231/18-5-2015 of the first cycle. The questions then are to the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. The reasons for the deletion are the visit to the Peloponnese Region. This is the first under number 238/19-5-2015 of the first cycle, the third under number 206/12-5-2015 of the second cycle, the first question under number 1402/1-4-2015 and the second question under number 546/6.3.2015. Here are the questions to the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Evangelos Apostolos. The reasons for deletion are the scheduled meeting with the Minister of Agriculture of Palestine. This is the second first cycle number 227/18-5-2015, the fourth first cycle number 243/19-5-2015 and the second cycle number 244/19-5-2015. Finally, the question to the Minister of State, Mr. Nikos Papapas, is deleted. The justification for deletion is to participate in the negotiations with the institutions. This is the fourth cycle number 178/4-5-2015. I will do so - and because the President of Parliament hears me, so I am making the comment, because I know what he will do and what he will do: planned trips are not scheduled one or two days ago. I guess that's a lot of days ago. If we look at the dates, the "opportunity" title is already gone. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the southern theories of the Parliamentary Law at the University of Athens. As President-in-Office, on behalf of the Parliament and the two Ministers present, we welcome you to this Parliament's meeting today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The Question No 6/5/4/2015 by the Members of the New Democracy of the Members of Parliament will be debated. Eleftherios Aygenaki, Andreas Katsaniotis, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, Emmanuel Konsola, Fotinis Arabatzis, Apostolos Besiropoulos, Savva Anastasiadis, Konstantinos Skreka and Stergiou Giannakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on public works. By letter to the President of Parliament, Mr Constantopoulos, on Friday's meeting, the timely question to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism of Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on public works is identified as a Parliamentary representative, Ilias Constantine Javaras. A similar letter is also available from the Potami Parliamentary Group, where Mr Kyriakos Charakides is designated as Parliamentary Representative. From the Communist Party of Greece on the same subject, Mr Athanasios Vardalis is designated as a Parliamentary representative. The first Member of the New Democracy Parliament has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, we're glad to have you both today. I am sure there will be a fruitful and substantial debate. Today we are discussing the topical and urgent question tabled by the New Democracy concerning public works and in particular the infrastructure in our country. I think that whatever the ideological approach one can take, we all agree in this Chamber - and in particular those from the technical sector - that investment in infrastructure is one of the main mechanisms for increasing income, increasing employment, productivity and, of course, the competitiveness of an economy. But infrastructures also play a huge social role in people's daily lives and are important for both economic development and the improvement of quality of life at the living level and local economies. In the past two and a half years, the government has made great efforts to build public infrastructure, for inclusion studies, tendering, integration and delivery to society, as well as for the integration of as many of them as possible into the NRP, achieving valuable benefits in times of deep recession and instability. Unfortunately, however, the last four months of the government, Mr Ministers, in the field of PPPs, investments and major projects are barren. Nearly zero is the production of works and the announcement of new works, with cancellations and transfers of works. The rhetoric of the government is spent on accountability, political failures and a number of such statements, but without hearing anything about your own plan, any new projects that will make our country better, as you see, and will bring friends and investors to give new jobs. We are constantly witnessing and addressing an infrastructure policy that cancels everything with labor and hard work that has been built up so far, with whatever problems they have had and with large infrastructures, as well as medium and small infrastructures. This policy is already, in our opinion, having catastrophic consequences, which will become stronger in the immediate future in the Greek economy, but also in society itself. Subsequent to my position and the position of fellow Members of the New Democracy that we are here today and have signed the topical question, we will put a number of questions to you, for which, Ministers, it would be good to have clear answers. And I start by making a reference to highways. As far as motorways are concerned, there are twenty-two projects under way and eighteen other smaller roads, urban and suburban. Many of these projects have problems with their pace of construction. And the sure thing is that in 2015 many of them will not have been delivered, as originally planned. But I'm going to be more specific. On the E65 motorway, for which Mr. Skrekas will then speak in more detail, only seventy kilometers in the Domokos Xenia section until the Trikala are likely to be delivered by the end of 2015, as originally planned. Accordingly, the projects on Corinth-Patras National Road, which my dear colleague Mr Katsaniotis will then speak about, will have been completed, at best, in mid-2016. The same applies to the Ionian Road, the Tunnels of Platamon and the Tempus, that is to say, works that are essential and necessary to be delivered to use. The agreements for the start-up of roads were presented by the Ministry of Infrastructure and were ratified by the Greek Parliament with Law 4219/2013. According to what was expected at the time, the four motorways would be delivered until December 31, 2015, with the exception of two cases: the Clocova tunnel on the Ionian Road and the Rios node on the Corinth - Patras National Road, which were extended until June 2016. One year later, as far as the Corinth-Patras National Road, work is concerned, there are already seven to eight months off schedule. And of course, the question is what you have been doing for the last four months - you will not apologize for all the four previous ones. At the same time, it is stated that in Olympia, there has been a delay in the delivery of the site for Rios car service station, having already submitted a request for compensation of EUR 2 million. It would be a pleasure to hear what your department says today. Moreover, with regard to the progress of the Olympian road projects, reconstruction work was at 62% at the end of 2014. In addition, forty-seven bridges, twenty-two above-two crossings and a hundred down forty crossings are in completion rate of about 61%, according to the data available to us. The question is, of course, what planning is, and if there is, of course, one of you. I'll make a report on the tolls. Mr Ministers, you have developed a argument in favour of low tolls, with constant statements and interviews. We are first positive. And who could really say that he doesn't want to reduce tolls until they disappear, really? Because we are interested in the productive opposition and not the sterile refusal to anything. However, what I want to point out is how this is to be achieved. What do you have in mind to do? Please don't just tell us ideas or thoughts, but if there's a design and a particular point of view, so that from our side you can hear, if you wish, our position and together we can do something good for our country. The concession time today is stable at thirty-five years. But you are telling us that any price reduction can be achieved by extending to forty-five years. You will then correct us if we of course make a mistake. We have received these from your own statements, either in the committee or in the intervening interviews you have given to the media. Do you think that you are giving a solution to the issue of toll reductions with a draft law that you say you will bring? If the concessionaires do not accept this proposal - I am thinking now - what is going on? In fact, in order for this to be all of this, we need a consensus and a consensus from all the parties involved. I'd like to say one more thing. If you reach agreement with the concessionaires - something that we sincerely wish and, where necessary, contribute - do not then have to negotiate with the banks? Then should you not negotiate with the European institutions? And beyond that, they all have to be social. Societies must also be here, the National Representation. Mr Minister, unfortunately, what you are saying so far sounds like a wish, because you are simply going to extend and increase the revenue to the concessionaires. Of course, you have not told us how much tolls will be reduced, i.e. how much this reduction will be and whether it will be brave or likely for the eyes of the world. We expect to hear your opinion. I'd like to report to the airports. The local airports of Greece have a very important hidden value, first of all from the possibility of improving their infrastructure, as well as the possibility of the commercial development and development of the property itself, which are currently underdeveloped and in many cases being used. I am not talking about the fourteen long-hauled or concessional regional airports. Yesterday, here, I was confronted with Mr Varoufakis, and I really have to say that I had difficulty understanding the government's positions on this matter. I'm pretty sure you're going to say that the matter has left your responsibilities and gone to the HIADE. That is why I have sought, on the occasion of a timely question, to have a briefing by Mr Varoufakis on what the government is telling us about this agreement. I didn't make any sense. If you know anything more, I would ask you to give us a light, so that we can have a real debate and that anyone who is interested in this debate, and the information accompanying this official position, in this Chamber, which is Parliament's plenary, not right and left to the channels and any statements to the media. But, ladies and gentlemen, returning to regional airports, I am talking about all the airports in the region, which are devastated without in essence any support from your Ministry. That's not what I'm saying. It is said by all those involved in tourism. It is also said by the Federation of Civil Aviation Associations, which calls for the proper and safe operation of airports and air navigation, as well as for the protection of all air carriers involved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You know he's notified you of an extrajudicial and filed a report with the Ice Arrow Attorney's Attorney. And you, Mr Spirtzi, instead of listening to them, that is to say, to set a meeting with them, as you are obliged to do, have chosen yesterday's path of inexorable and sterile confrontation with constant media intervention, where you described the workers in the UAA as dangerous and outside their institutional role. I will inform you that I have an own view of the airports in the region and therefore continue to visit all airports throughout the territory. Of course, you will allow me to testify to the workers' out-of-courts, in the belief that you will take it into consideration and meet them. You will discuss with them or we will discuss together. And keep in mind our position: As a Professional Anti-Civilization, as a New Democracy, we are against the strikes, which de facto cause damage to society, to tourism and to the economy, and especially when they are made for a sonati and an inconsistency on your part. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Eleftherios Agygeakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The question I raised yesterday was what happens to the competition initiated by the previous government. We didn't get a reply. But what about the competition, Mr Ministers, on air traffic controllers? We have to say that it was thirty one in total - twenty-eight air traffic controllers left, which through ADP had taken the lead in choosing the best to serve this service. The information tells us that this issue has ceased, has stopped since 12 months - you can confirm - and that you are thinking - but that is why we are also waiting for your answer - to cover these positions by the pilots of the former Olympics who returned to their service after the Katorugalos law. You know that this can't happen, as you know the peculiarities. Please take care, because we cannot play with the safety of flights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall make a reference, Mr President - and I shall end with this - to the railways. Minister, on the issues of fixed-track projects, we also have huge problems. But here again refuse to see the workers. Here again, an extrajudicial to the employees of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Masters of TSE has been filed with the conviction that they will be able to meet with the President, which I am tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Eleftherios Agygeakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I believe that this practice does not honor any Minister, and the Minister of the left-wing government, who has only hoped for many of those who have voted for you. I will make a reference to the metro of Thessaloniki, which will then come the dear friend Nikos Panagiotopoulos, to mention much more. We must look for a political solution which will be immediately accepted by all sides. We must move on, even by triggering 12 of the thirteen stations. This can happen, technically possible. I would ask you very much to listen to your position on this matter. Now, regarding Line 4 of Athens Metro, we know that the more important it is to move this project forward for Attica, but the more there is a delay and a response to this project with a prejudice. This impression you have given, so please very much if it is not the case, correct us, if it does not happen, and give you a takeaway so that this work can be taken forward and move forward as quickly as possible. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, in addition to the ongoing projects and I ask you today to inform us of the course of their implementation, there are works under auction or expected the competitive procedure or the signature of the contract and others which constitute announcements. For these projects, the government must be placed, clarifying its intentions in terms of its willingness to move on or not. Also, as far as financing is concerned, while other countries are making use of the possibilities of the Juncker package, the Greek Government is absent. The country that so much needs Community money, which will encourage private investment, unfortunately, remains unsuccessful in this process. At the time the European Investment Bank approved the first selection of projects of EUR 600 million, from EUR 315 billion, and the creation of infrastructure, the strengthening of research and innovation, the Greek Government withdrew the list of projects of EUR 42.5 billion in order to draw up a new list, which will be submitted in the summer, as the Minister responsible Mr Stathakis confirmed in the previous year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Time doesn't exist. The country needs investment. The government must understand that the state has continued and that no delay can be accepted. I will say one last thing at some point because we have to speak responsibly in this Chamber: do not tell us again about the memoranda and the memorial policies. These are cheap excuses to justify your inaction, your inability, probably, and the ignorance of the government on a number of issues. I've seen you, too, government ministers, whenever you find the dark, throw them into the memorial policies. Last year no one was employed at airports and their needs. Last year, no one was fighting for wages and pensions. Last year the public's obligations were met to third parties and the projects were progressing properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Ausgenakis, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u6	Nor is it wrong: because we have saved time from questions, the Bureau will be flexible for everyone, both the Ministers and the Parliamentary Representatives and, of course, the honourable Members. But not abuse. Before giving the floor to the second question I would like to inform you that the Secretary of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group by letter to the President of the Parliament is appointed as Parliamentary Representative for today's question, Mr Ilias Panayotarou. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 9th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On April 6, 1453, the siege of Constantinople began. On May 29, 1453, the King fell. The House stands with reverence in memory and honors the memory of the thousands of fighters of the King from the first rank of Constantine Palaiologos to the last fighter. Their memory is eternity. I would ask that the second question, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, should come to Stepma. Here, Mr Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes with a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, in a persuasive sense of what they want to make the Greek Parliament an inhospitable place for the exercise of parliamentary activity, Accuracy Antipoliticism comes and speeds up a timely question that has something to do with not so much the burning question of negotiation, but with the country's effective governance and its real development perspective. The case of tough and proud negotiation has, of course, become a bad and slow-track series - of course - which, at the moment - for internal consumption, but disastrous, after three months and then, for the national economy. It is, of course, a question for us, when the agreement with the lenders comes, to assess the size of the damage. If he doesn't come, then I think the damage will probably be irreparable. We, despite any failures and delays - this Minister spoke for the day before yesterday about the wrong political negotiation, speaking frankly, must confess - despite the fact that the account, when it comes, will be greater than what we would pay at the end of 2014, despite your colleagues, Minister, who are undermining the agreement by insisting on the application of policies that lead to greater growth of the state and thus greater growth of deficits, we hope that the agreement will come, not because the people's mandate to the government requires a negotiation for a stay in the euro and nothing else - but more because this will mean staying on a track of Europe, while the opposite will mean a trajectory of Europe. But, Minister, life is not just negotiation for the agreement, it is also the country's day-to-day governance effort, as I have said, in all areas of government work. The area of large public projects is crucial because when they are designed, financed and implemented at a satisfactory pace, the overall economic activity is revived by injecting growth and employment. The country is being strengthened in the long term to exploit its comparative advantages and, in particular, those resulting from its central geographical position, especially in the field of transport networks. Its central geographical location is about the crossroads of the Southeast Mediterranean, the entrance gate of Southeast Europe and the threshold of the Balkan inland. However, despite the considerable efforts of the previous two years, in terms of construction and funding, i.e. integration into the NSRP or the Public Infrastructure Investment Plan, the last three months and the mark of your new government are likely to show inertia and inertia. Greece has become an inert building site. No new work to be carried out, no announcement of a new project, many cancellations, many changes in the future of existing projects, many postponements of competitions. The dramatic announcement of the Panhellenic Association of Technical Companies of SATE, on May 11th to your Ministry, where it speaks of dissolution in public works throughout the country, gives the exact climate and size of the problem, which you are asked to manage. We have a risk of stopping work on too many projects, because of the financial weakness of construction companies, because I would say very unjustified, I would say, of the delay, in the approval of accounts of works carried out, but also in the accumulation of irresponsible financing and credit decisions to the Bank of Greece. You don't pay, you don't pay. This is, of course, also the case for a selective execution of funding and credit. But that's another conversation. All contractors carrying out public works in the country at this time are adversely affected. According to the LAG, there are hundreds of contractors in progress in which the contractor has already exercised or may exercise the right to terminate his works and subsequently dismantle the contract. It's serious. The result - we hope that it will not come about - is dispersed semi-finished projects throughout the country, inaccurate ESDP funds, lost thousands of jobs. The most characteristic example is the most vital for Thessaloniki, the largest public work of the country in progress, the metro of Thessaloniki, of course, which is evolving in a shipwreck, with a completion rate of about 50% after eight years - I am not saying, slow rates have been in the past, but now there are no rates at all - it has been frozen and despite the great delays due to archaeological excavations, expropriations and technical problems in the opening of tunnels, today the project gives the impression that it is being taken into total collapse. The consortium which has undertaken its construction has announced in writing the complete and definitive interruption of the archaeological work and announcing redundancies of all the employees in the consortium. It also states a lack of funding for the archaeological findings of the excavations. We're waiting for your location. Minister, with regard to the whole - a brief comment before I close - on fixed-track projects, i.e. metro, tram and rail, the question is whether they will be re-introduced rapidly to a realisation path both for reasons of better and better service to the passenger, especially in terms of metro, tram and extensions of railway networks, and for a purely developmental reason. Mostly it is about the rail network, and especially Northern Greece, taking advantage of the country's comparative advantage in freight transport as a hub for transporting goods to the Balkan inland, Central and Eastern Europe, through the synergy of ports and rail networks. Where there is a commercial port, there should normally also be a rail link with the main railway axis of the country. That is why the OSE is planning the next major rail projects in Macedonia and Evros. Under way we are dealing with the rail link project or improvements of the existing networks of Thessaloniki - Promahona, that of Alexandroupolis - Ormenio on the border with Bulgaria and Turkey in turn, the bypass of the city of Alexandroupolis after the completion of the railway connection of the port of Alexandroupolis and another project that I particularly like, the new rail link with the commercial port of Kavala. These works are called to support and speed up. So solve the internal problems of your Ministry - the internal problems of SYRIZA are being called upon and we hope that the Prime Minister will solve them - finish with the allocation of responsibilities to the Secretary-General, avoid the many committees and consultations, leave the eternal renegotiations on the spectacle, work on the planning of projects that will provide employment and perspective strategy in the country, solve the financial outstandings that strangle all mining companies financially, ensure the secure resources, do work, do work. The country can't wait any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Panayotopoulos. The next question, Mr Constantine Screkas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in June 2012, when the previous New Democracy government took over the country's governance, the ESRB had 44% absorbency and all major infrastructure projects had stopped. All road axes, all concessions had stopped. That is what we received from the previous government at that time. We then managed, within about a year, after we restored a climate of confidence and security in the market, since we were able to put the country's budgets into order, we managed to access money from the partners then, so that we could start the big projects, which in 2013, in the second half, started and operated. When we took over, no one worked in these works. There were only unemployed in those areas. Within 2013, one year later, the projects began to work, contractors and contractors began to produce work, workers, operators, drivers worked in these works and work until today. And by the way, in 2014 the recovery had come to the country, things had stabilised, we had a growth of about 0.8%, as far as the projects were concerned, the machines were full, they worked until a few months ago, and that was what you received. You received a country with the ESRB at 88% absorption, Greece was among the first European countries in terms of absorption and you received the projects under construction at full speed. In four months' time we see that projects are again in danger of stopping implementation and the money from European funds has stopped coming to the country. We see that in the areas where these technical projects are being carried out and the roads are being built, unemployment has been reintroduced and increased, as construction sites are reducing their activity and people are being made redundant. You are at risk, Minister - and I am kindly warning you - and you and your Deputy Minister are ministers who have taken over a country that has been in recovery, development and turned it into a country that will be recurring again in a few months' time. You took a country where the works were in operation. If you continue to do what you do, you will very quickly have a country where the works have stopped once again. It's not for laughing, I say it because I see you smiling. It's just a cry, that's all. It's not appropriate to laugh, unless it's a laugh and it's not a laugh. Because it's about crying, I say it with all due respect. The E-65 or the axis of central Greece is a road, ladies and gentlemen, which unites Lamia with Egnatia Road to the height of Grevenes. This is its construction and design. So we join the port of Piraeus on a very short and secure road, to the border of the country to Albania, plus bringing all western Greece, i.e. Trikala, Karditsa, Grevena, Kastoria, Kozani, far closer to the center of Athens. This will bring great growth to local communities, increase the tourist product, increase, improve and facilitate the movement of agricultural products produced in those regions. It is an axis which has been included in the transEuropean network. The Europeans want this axis to be done, they have already spent money to become a part of it, and this part is in danger of stopping while it was in operation. I am referring, for example, to the straight line of Xyniada - Trikala. You owe about 49 million euros. It is money from the European Union. Why don't you give them? They're in danger of completely stopping construction sites. You are at risk of increasing unemployment. Unemployment has already increased, as there has been a decline in activity there. The southern part, Lamia - Xenia, we included it in the new ESRB. The previous government submitted eighteen programmes and approved eighteen in December 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, although we saw that we were going to elections, even though we were seeing that the polls were not in favour of us, we did not stop working until the last day. So on Christmas Eve, December 2014, we tabled a law on the ESRB and voted on it so that you have the law to go ahead with secondary legislation and not to waste time on new European money and not to lose the projects, but to continue to be built. We have tabled eighteen programmes, sectoral and regional, and Greece has been among the first countries where all its programmes were approved by the European Union, so that you do not lose a single day, not a single euro if you were to come to power. You came to power, you took it. Go, go, go, go, go, go! Projects are being stopped, unemployment is growing. In the first five months of 2015 you have absorbed 411 million. About 5.5 billion we absorbed last year. In one year, we absorbed 10 times more and you absorbed 1/10 in the first five months. If you carry on, I am afraid that what you announced in a joint communiqué with the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Cretsu, that is to say the establishment of a working group involving representatives of the European Commission's institutions, and even the establishment of this group, even the committee you will bring to the Ministry of Economy, will not help the country. What are you going to do with the southern part of Lamia - Xanthi? When will it begin? When will his funding begin? What have you done to start immediately? What are you going to do with the straight line, which is under construction and would be delivered to the citizens at the end of 2015? How are you gonna get the money? Where will you get them from and when will you give them to continue the work? What are you going to do with the northern piece Trikala - Kalambaka - Entrepreneuria Street? Where do you think you're going to fund this? It's a part that's mature now. He's changing his charm. I had done it as Minister a number of work to enable you to include it in the new ESDP, the ETUC, and finance it from there. It's a mature project. You can still find resources from the Juncker package. Tell us where you'll find resources, when you start and when you plan to complete it. What's the timeline? I'll leave the next for my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u10	Please come to Stepma, the fourth question, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis. You can speak from your position if you want. You have the floor, Mr Katsaniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in mid-2015, logically and based on the original plans, we should also be heading towards the final straight-line implementation of some very important infrastructure for the country. Among these are the Corinth - Patras motorway, the new high-speed rail line in the northern Peloponnese, the completion of the Lefktro - Sparta and Akti - Ambros, the Antiri - Ioannina road connection and others. At the same time, the studies and tenders of the next season should have gone very fast, including the road between Patras and Pyrgos, the western railway line. Instead, what do we have? Since the January elections and so far we have not just been stagnating but also a painful delay in the development of all the projects. Recently I have read - and you have all seen - reports saying there is a mandate from the General Accounting Office of the State not to pay a single euro for the payment of projects. What does that actually mean? I will give you some information to have an image, ladies and gentlemen, of the leverage that is being done with this money. The information I'm about to give you is on the Olympic Street. One million euros is state funding, 18 million euros is European funding, 43 million euros is bank participation, 8 million euros is participation by shareholders. That's the ratio of money. So, by failing the state to give a million euros for the continuation of the Olympian road, what is it actually doing? It takes a much larger sum of these projects, close to 60 million. This results in information everywhere in my area that works stop, contractors start saying they're going to throw people away, so you realize what a climate it's going to be. It is considered that, in 2015, no road projects will have been completed and there is already talk of requests for extensions due either to expropriations or to the non-payment of the money by the Greek State. At the same time we all hear and read that you intend to reopen the issue of concessions, but we have nothing tangible and concrete so far. I would remind you of the cancellation of the Patras-Pyrgos road auction for which we still do not know the exact timetable for tendering and implementation but that you intend to auction it in many and small parts. We are still listening lately to voices about the usefulness of these projects. I believe that these are small components, Minister, because I do not think we should relaunch the debate on the necessity and usefulness of these projects. All of this describes a landscape that rallies every day more and more. It creates reasonable concerns in local communities. In addition, the project sector, instead of being a source of optimism and a lever of stability in the country, has fallen to the level of national depression of all other sectors of the economy and, once again, is in danger of ending up with a burden for the national economy, since time delays with the fault of the state mean new unfavourable compensation. So I ask, who will pay for this damage? The policy pursued by the current government, Minister, will not make Greek citizens any more burdens, will it not contribute to increasing the economic bleeding of the Greek state? Do you also think about what all these delays mean and the risk of losing Community funds and projects for Greek entrepreneurship? The entire western axis of the country loses opportunities for development that have occasionally appeared and been convicted of isolation and a serious lack of transport infrastructure, while you, Minister, have not yet appointed an administration in ERGOSE. When will the rail projects in the tendering and study phase be completed? When will the western axis acquire combined transport capabilities to enhance entrepreneurship? What about the train and road intersection points? What about funding projects in progress at ERGOSE? Last but not least, let me mention something else. Do you deny that delay in infrastructure integration means additional and completely unfair loss of human capital? Lost lives in the streets "carnivals" are not valued with money, they are simply invaluable. Minister, we expect concrete and clear answers for the development of all projects. Western Greece from Ioannina to Kalamata expects to come out of isolation and underdevelopment. We expect clear and binding timetables. When will the railroad be auctioned to Patras and when will the Patra-Tower section be? When will the Patras tower begin to be auctioned and when will it be completed? At what stage is Olympia and Ionian Road and what is their time horizon for their completion? When will the Lefktro - Sparta and when will the Akti - Ambracia be completed? How much money is still needed for expropriations? Have the companies submitted requests for extensions? We have also been listening for some time now and we have not seen anything about the companies negotiations. Do you have any specific and realistic plan for the toll level and the length of the concession contracts? Have you created a mathematical model that connects them? We want you to be specific at last and answer us very specifically. It is now enough with creative ambiguity in this area. Finally, I remind you, Minister, that you are an engineer, a man who has served as President of the TEI for many years, so a man who, because of knowledge and experience, has to produce work with results and speed and that is what you need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u12	And we, Mr. Katsaniotis. Mr Emmanuel Konsolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, it is an excellent opportunity today with your presence here to promote the political dialogue at the National Representation on the occasion of and thanks to the initiatives of Mr Aygeakis and the other colleagues to table a timely question to the National Representation on the projects that are under way and which are at risk of not being implemented because of the improper work being done either by service providers or by the intention of political leadership. You know, none of us today is in a mood of opposition, particularly at this time when we are consciously supporting the government's choices of stability, security and, of course, the country's stay in the Eurozone. Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister, projects that have been under way and at this difficult time for the Greek economy are all aware that the construction of major projects of particular importance and of medium-sized projects will create a positive growth rate. Mr Skrekas mentioned this earlier. The course of a construction project up to the development and use of infrastructure has multiplier benefits. It creates jobs, strengthens economic activity, and in this context Mr Augakis' thorough position has analysed the specific issues that concern and arise from the delay in the implementation of various projects. The rotation of governments you know - we all know it here in this Chamber - does not mean that they should be brought to the good works procedures, which are very important for the country in general, and does not mean that the state itself is cancelled. In 2013-2014, serious efforts were made - you know that, Minister - to complete studies in order to integrate and auction projects, prepare for the opening of competitive procedures in order to speed up their implementation, despite the difficulties of previous political leadership. We went ahead, because we saw the continuation of the state. The country's exceptional circumstances should speed up its implementation procedures, especially major public projects and investment. On the contrary, there is a suspension, postponement and even cancellation of competitive procedures for large public projects. In some cases, the contracts also relate to valuable revenues that will give a breath to the Greek State, such as the only part of the use of the fourteen regional airports. The question is that four months now, Minister, the government proves that either it had no plan or intentionally does not discover and does not reveal what it intends to do from large public projects. In the last four months, there has been an inertia with regard to the problems at airports. This is due specifically to EUR 7.5 million, ladies and gentlemen, to the workers, which has triggered a strike wave for this three-day period. There are also overtime debts that have been created since December. Do you realize what the problem will be for tourism? Minister, I heard you yesterday at the SETE. I welcome your position that you recognise that tourism is the big capital for the country at this time. I know your origin, I know your course, and as a colleague at the university, but you know, we have a multi-level mechanism to deal with the operation of the trade unions, which are also friendly. I saw Mr Spirtzi's precariousness this morning with the President of the Workers. They even complained you didn't want to see them. You know, I have to testify from the Step - and give me time, Mr President - that Mr Spirtz really has a difficulty in working together. We tried two, three Members to see him, and his secretary called us after months to tell us that he still has no competence. And his attitude, that he does not want the dialogue, seems why he has not yet called on the outgoing President of the PSC, Ms. Kouki, and Mr. Elleiras, to inform and discuss these issues. Is that possible, ladies and gentlemen? Where did you know, Minister, about the problems in airports and you didn't want a meeting with MPs to inform you about the airports and you didn't want the DPRK's leadership to tell you about this? I'm very surprised. I know your course. I guess some bad counsellor led you not to meet with us and with the P.D.A.'s leadership. You know, breaking tabs has led to economic values at airports. There are debts of 7.5 million in the hospitals and airport cleaning companies. There are 11 million debts to the security services. In most airports in the country there are tragic deficiencies, with regard to the supply of consumables, fuels, and also, there is a number of projects that would modernise the operation of airports, especially at this time, the development of infrastructure, these services and they are not being carried out. I would like you to give me some time, Mr President. Briefly and telegraphically: The expansion of Chania airport is at risk of being responded to by the NRV. They have literally eaten Mr. Stathakis, their compatriot, agents of Chania. It is at risk at this time that he will pay off from the hundreds of thousands of euros debts to suppliers. Direct investment to upgrade equipment at Rhodes and Kos airports, especially at Rhodes Airport, which is of immediate priority and need, do not exist yet. There is the intention of the previous political leadership - and it has been decided before - to change the radar facility, since there is an installation of sixteen years ago and nothing has been started. To replace the two radio aids with more than twenty years of age, there is no possibility of finding spare parts. Therefore, you understand the malfunction that exists. There's no air conditioning at Rhodes Airport. I invite you and I ask you to come to Rhodes and see tails. Thousands of people! The airport of Rhodes travels millions of passengers, as in Kos. Same in Corfu and Chania. I cannot, however, remove this, Minister. I know your sensations. Finally, you must give a definitive answer on health care issues at airports. Last year, lives were lost at the airport of Rhodes and Kos. There are no medical establishments well organized, especially in Rhodes, and there are no doctors. You may inherit any of these. But now, which is the beginning of the season, you must give a definitive answer. It is also necessary to finance projects and improve infrastructure at smaller regional airports, for example, at the airport of Karpathos, which is a key pillar in the south-eastern Aegean, where there are no air traffic controllers. Minister, we could also ensure that, until the Government decided to make use of the fourteen regional airports, if it had followed the European Union NOTAM, on active space capacity for air traffic, and if it had proceeded with a substantial upgrading of infrastructure and equipment for the PALLAS system. I do not think that this Step is being offered to opposition to this point. But I will close by thinking the following: you know that electorally some ministers and many SYRIZA officials had hampered the government's attitude to the development of regional airports. Yesterday, with surprise, we all heard Mr Varoufakis say that the contract will be signed with the agreement with the partners. We expect to see what contract it will be. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question we have put highlights issues aimed at restarting the economy, because speeding up the construction of major projects, tendering and completing competitive processors are boosting the economy. I would say that the government's policy in the field of large public works is proportionate to the choices it made in negotiating with our partners. The improvisations, regressions and delays cost both cases. The feeling of changing regime prevails in the way in which it deals with major public works, depreciating any preparatory action. The five major roads in particular appear to have different views between Minister Stathakis and Deputy Minister Spirtzi. Mr Stathakis has assured the concessionaires that the projects will continue with the contracts signed, while Mr Spirtz has talked about renegotiation of contract terms and the addition of new terms. Do I need to remind you that two years ago there was a long negotiation involving representatives of the public, banks and concession companies, while the final result of the negotiation was adopted and ratified by the European Union? A possible renegotiation is that it will take time and it is not certain that time works in favour of the construction and completion of these major projects. It is a pretext that we are not alone in this context. There is also the European Union and we do not know what image the government is giving of the work of the five major roads. It is also clear that you have demonised the projects relating to public-private partnerships, a practice that dominates the European area. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece became a third throughout Europe in 2014 with regard to PPP projects, following the United Kingdom and France, third in terms of multitude contracts, third in terms of value of GNP contracts. Since then, in the first five months of 2015, we have experienced a state of total failure in respect of projects relating to public-private partnerships. The government could have exploited the advantage we have as a country in PPP projects between all the other countries of Europe. In the Greek PPP projects public participation is financed through the NSRF and through the other Structural Funds and the existing financial instruments, such as the JESSICA programme, while the European Investment Bank may participate in PPP projects. What is important is that your potential argument for a lack of liquidity falls away: the Greek State does not pay its share in the project, but the repayment is made upon receipt of it and after the evaluation of the quality of the project has been preceded. This is not the only failure observed these four months. How many competitions were matured before the elections, but could you have announced after the elections? The competitive procedures for forty public budget projects of EUR 747 million have been ready and you have canceled half the tenders, some of which relate to works for the restoration of illegal landfills and for the treatment of landfills, which I will mention in detail in my dentistry. I must also highlight the delays that exist in super-local projects, referring to two typical examples. The first relates to the remaining work on the road construction of the Patras - Naoussa road section, a project which forms part of the Verea - Naoussa - Skydra road axis. The project was tendered in May 2013, the contract was made on 22 November of the same year and the planned completion time is at the end of 2015. I would like to point out that, at the moment we are talking, there are considerable delays in payments, which exceeds two months. March and April have not been paid and will not be paid, as they all show, and the sixteenth account, which relates to May. Naturally, the project has stopped and this works with chains of negative effects for workers, who are not working and are not paid, but also for project subcontractors and suppliers. And this picture exists on many construction sites all over the country. It is not just about this project. I have asked for a meeting with Mr Spirtzi to raise the matter with him, but the Minister has not yet accepted me. I will ask you, Minister, because you are an ex-parliamentary, to show little respect to elected representatives of the Greek people. On this issue, which concerns the Patriarchate - Naoussa project, I will put the Monday question. A second topic for the execution of public works concerns the Aegean highway, namely the Races Phthiotidas - Key Imathia. While there was progress with the project relaunching agreement in 2013, it is not certain at the moment to complete it within the timetables set, and I therefore believe that a comprehensive update on the part of the Ministry is needed for all the projects under way, with regard to the progress and integration schedules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u16	We reach the last question, Mr. Stergio Giannakis. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it is extremely difficult for you to give persuasive answers to the Greek people about the major infrastructure projects. You leave us in the dark with regard to the negotiations and we do not know what you are planning for the future of the country. The Aktio-Ambracia road axis is one of the largest in progress public projects in Greece, as it includes the conversion of the road from Amphilosia to Aktio on a closed highway. Today, the project contractors and their execution consortia have stopped the construction of the project from 15-1-15, their staff are working, without, as we know, having a particular reason, beyond possible purposes for contractors, which may be served by this development. On what grounds has a public work of vital importance to the region of Western Greece and the country's economy been stopped by the contractors and the provisions of Articles 60 and 61 of Law 3669/2008 do not apply? Do you know, Minister, that we are close to the limit period laid down in Article 48 of Law 3669/2008, which contractors are likely to exploit in the sixth and seventh years of 2015 in order to avoid the execution of the remaining item, which, due to the deduction for them is injurious, insurance, technical and other? What action do you intend to take, Minister, to resolve the non-conventional attitude of project contractors and when will workers and jobs be used in any form of pressure rather than productively to complete the project? I think it is necessary to clarify your position on the issue of the privatisation of the fourteen airports. Will their privatisation be completed or not? My compatriots in Preveza, because of the Coast, are confused and there are daily clashes between residents and the various service actors. This is also due to government bilingualism. Someone else comes out and says they'll be privatized and someone else says no. At the SYRIZA Central Committee last weekend, a text against privatisation was released, and my fellow Member of the county signed it. It is necessary to make the position of the Government clear. At the moment, even in tourist times, all the regional airports in the country are in a tragic situation. They are not maintained, and much more they are not upgraded. I will not only refer to staff shortages, but I will insist on the lack of spare parts, maintenance materials, but also on basic consumables. On the other hand, the debts to suppliers in security, security and cleanliness services have reached unthinkable heights. A second point I want to make is the question of the development of broadband networks and services. Mr President, you have also repeatedly mentioned the benefits and advantages of broadband access. Benefits are well known, but you are confined to them without making any reference to planning, ensuring funding and political choice to implement this major infrastructure project, which, when completed, will offer the possibility of fast access to the Internet in about five and a half thousand "white" rural and island regions of the country. I should remind you that you received the project as government and you personally signed the PPP contracts from December 2014 and all you had to do was supervise its implementation. The previous government with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras received this project in the autumn of 2012, endless and with no funding. It started a long-term effort to redesign, re-approve and reintegration for funding. This project, totalling EUR 161 million, is considered one of the largest projects in the telecommunications infrastructure, currently being implemented throughout Europe. It has 100% guaranteed funding and will enable access to upgraded online services to over half a million citizens. You must inform us, Minister, why you are delaying the finalisation of other projects designed, already of broadband that have been guaranteed funding. With this practice, on the one hand you deprive citizens of the benefits of broadband and on the other you risk losing millions of euros. Do you intend and when to launch the implementation of this project, since it also has the EUR 15 million guaranteed funding? The NRP, Minister, expires at the end of the year. Does this frustration prejudge you and your intention to deprive the municipalities of the country of the opportunity to offer free internet services in public places? Are you considering the risk to the country of the loss of millions of euros in the Digital Convergence Programme, and how do you think of this to prevent it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u18	Mr Stathakis and Mr Spirtzis are present on behalf of the government. Mr. Stathakis will answer the theology, which I call on the Step. I hope that he has kept notes, because the Members' questions were beyond the question text. You have the floor, Minister, for twenty minutes, with tolerance to you, if necessary. Immediately after the Minister, the parliamentary representatives of the parties will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. It can be seen that New Democracy, despite the fact that it was defeated by a state in the elections, having chosen, before the elections, the idea of catastrophe, that if SYRIZA comes out, the country will collapse, people will go to the supermarkets to store products, there will not be one day the banking system up. Dozens of dangerous scenarios, which for various reasons the world did not accept and selected SYRIZA. And a government was built, with SYRIZA's body and the cooperation of the ANELs. Since then, it seems that the New Democracy remains in the strategy of catastrophe, namely that this government is, firstly, incapable. It cannot be managed by the ESRB, that is to say to put in a number of five provisions and proceed with a process that Mr Screkas had successfully prepared - to be absolutely objective - at the end of 2014. So that's not even what we can do! And the second is that it insists on the catastrophe that once SYRIZA arrived in the government, everything was frozen and stopped. The plays? 'Nothing happens'. Tell me a play that stopped. I was expecting to hear a project that stopped. "They're in danger of stopping" is your wording. Also, tell me a project in which there is a lack of characteristic. Thirdly, because we do not incorporate projects which you have left in a semi-inclusion-degree regime. We're resurrecting works. We are responding to the projects, because we are sincere, up and running, and obviously with strong criteria, which will go ahead and what is not. We did so in the projects of the NRP on 31 March. With determination and courage we notified it: "They continue until the end of 2015. The following will continue to finance them in the next ESDP.’ These eighty-five projects worth half a billion have been awarded. You never did that. But we are also doing the same in the big projects, which you supposedly inherited us, which were at a pre-examination stage, integrated without resources. I'm referring to a lot of them. Mr. Spirtzis will stand in more detail. And there is the idea that we suddenly disagree or make unclear statements on specific major issues. First of all, let me begin by saying that destruction does not help anyone. The government has no ambiguity in its formalities. I'm starting with the big issues you've raised. First theme: Completion of the major road corridors. It must be made clear to everyone here that we would never design the major roads in the way they were designed before, by the former governments of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. Remember, PPPs only have a record in Greece. In all other European countries it is 5% -6% -7%. In addition, the Commission Only in Greece, all projects, large and many others, are made exclusively in the form of PPPs. I would remind you, therefore, that the first concession contracts for motorways had suffocating to unavoidable deadlines for the implementation of public obligations - expropriations, archaeological research, etc. - which was the result of designs and studies without public consultation, which brought significant delays with regard to carpeting and many judicial actions. Third, bad choices in the combination of construction and construction of a road network with unequal contracts. We have been paying a road for too many years, with tolls, while the road is under construction for five, six, seven years, there are examples. The forecast for the construction of road sections as motorways had pre-determined figures that the loads would be very low, which undermined the projects themselves in terms of their viability. E-65 is probably one of them. There is a total absence of rational tolls, which is why and raise tolls so large reactions from users, there have been wrong choices in financial models and funding, and if all of this is not enough, there was the decisive point that the public took a very large part of the risk in the first contracts. However, these conventions, which I repeat had problems with the first round of contracts, were cancelled for two years, during a New Democracy, the projects were stopped, not because of the public, but because of the withdrawal of private funding, in the midst of the crisis. For two years there have been no projects and it has not been for this public and much more of us. The relaunch of the projects invoked by the New Democracy, which was carried out in two main ways.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u20	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I have to make an announcement. After all, you're very interested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty students and students and ten teachers from the Elementary School of Chania. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u21	Are you collecting all the schools in your area?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u22	Coincidence! I welcome you, anyway, as Haniotis. The second relaunch of projects has been carried out under contracts which I would remind you of the three features. Firstly, full risk absorption by the public. Full. If anything goes wrong on highways, the public comes and compensates. Secondly, the substitution of bank funding in the part that stops with public funding and commitment of the corresponding resources from the current and the next NSRPs. I stress this because we receive an NRP, in which the next piece called transport does not have a single euro, is all committed from 2014-2020 on the motorways you signed. And the third and main thing is that the toll issue chooses in the midst of the crisis and in the midst of the unfavourable economic and social conditions to increase tolls by 40%, resulting in obvious and self-evident, that this had economic side effects, reduced the people who enter the motorway and increased disproportionately, with terrible consequences, the weight on parallel roads and roads. What is the government doing now? That government inherited. I repeat: there is no guarantee that the second version adopted by the House, which is in force and respected by the government and which will complete the works with the existing contracts - this is a statement, clear and repeated, but there is no question that there is no possibility, to the extent it is clear, of course, that improvements need to be made, these improvements should be made to reach joint consensus on the initiatives of the Government, the concessionaires and the financeers above all of the financing of the European Investment Bank. And because nothing is happening in secret, everything is publicly, these wordings and thoughts we have brought them to everyone, to the concessionaires and to the European Investment Bank, which I visited last Monday, and in all directions. Therefore, the idea that there is something dramatic or destructive that poses a risk of destruction of these projects is an ex-realist wording which is not relevant to reality. We are working to find solutions that are beneficial, firstly for the public, secondly for the users of these roads and there are too many thoughts that have been made at times. I'd say something even more general. Because I noted in the speeches by the New Democracy MPs that you were a fan of great projects and considered, without having been taught from the past, that the construction boom of 1996-2008 with the very big projects, Olympiad, motorways, infrastructures and so on, was a solution to the country's development problem, I would like to tell you that this has proved not to be the case. The country collapsed financially. Secondly, much of the projects could not continue. Thirdly and more importantly, the construction sector itself, a sector with a long history and dynamics, has proved to be weak to compete with perpetually. In other words, after the crisis and collapse of this internal economy, we would all expect that our study offices would become much more extroverted, that our construction companies would become far more extroverted, that all of this construction sector that had a heavy history and an extroverted history in the past decades would make it possible to adapt to the international environment and replace the problems in the internal economy by claiming a share in international markets. That's not true. And it reversed a situation that I repeat that in the 1970s and 1980s Greek companies had much better foreign performance. So there is a problem across the model that has been shaped over this twenty-nine years. We, in our intentions, are to change this model from its basis, to improve the whole system of the construction sector, in a way that is lasting, transparent, will improve the performance of the construction sector and will contribute to the real development of the Greek economy. As a result of this, all we are exporting these days is political engineers, engineers in general, precisely in the absence of the industry's own ability to export services. Let me return to some of the big issues that you have raised and which I do not want them to remain unanswered. I will make two bitter comments on the absorption of the NRP. The absorption of the NRP has suddenly ejected for two reasons. The first reason was that the composition has changed in the financing of projects from 85% -15% of European and national funds have become 95% -5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u23	Is that bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u24	No, very good. But it has had a great accounting impact, and so we have a sudden increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u25	They didn't go to the market?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u26	The second thing I want to say and it is very important and critical to you is that there has been a multiple accounting, creative, indeed the New Democracy and the old Ministers have had a capacity for creative accounting. For example, there were amounts of tolls below expected and replaced by money from the NSRP which did not concern the actual project, but the method of financing by replacing not the share of the toll, but the substitution of the tolls that did not bring this project. I repeat that there have been several such phenomena in the absorption of resources from the ESRB with various creative tricks. I now come back to the issue of the current liquidity crisis. There is one criticism made to the government, obviously by the associations of concessionaires, by organisations in the contractor sector and so on, which, with the first delay, are at risk of ten or twenty days. They risk and directly I say it publicly, saying that if a million is not paid next week, which is a contractual obligation for the public, the project will be stopped. We all understand - and here too, there must be full national awareness, and I say this with the weight of words - that the government has chosen a negotiating strategy. The subject of this strategy is a given one. We are looking for a solution which will remove the country from the strict framework of the previous system, the memorandum as we knew it. That is the mandate of the Greek citizens, which is why we are government. We cannot go back to this in order to solve the problem of funding immediately. We have chosen a strategy that says: We respect the mandate, we are trying to create an agreement that will remove the system from the existing commitments of the previous system. We are going to make concessions - and we are making concessions on many issues - but we are going to reach an agreement which is beneficial to both sides and is in line with the mandate that the government has received. This was not done in one day, in one week. He's taken the particular time he's taken. This substantiates and allows the government to create. And he can take it. And here I want to be very clear: none of the destructive scenarios that were formulated throughout this quarter - four months - have happened. The first disaster was that if there is no dramatic change or agreement, the banking system would collapse. It didn't happen. Secondly, there was a catastrophe that public revenues would collapse. Public revenue didn't collapse. Public revenue goes well and even after the last month better than the previous ones. There was the third catastrophic theory that the market would collapse and the recession in the economy would be great. The limit is - the economy seems to stand - and the optimism that at the end of the year will be positive, as we had anticipated from the outset. Therefore, none of the three destructive scenarios apply. What does that mean? It means that we absolutely have to agree that the various ways in which the government manages adequate liquidity pressures cannot be signalled that this will produce enormous or permanent damage to projects, such as those you are saying, that, if there is a delay next week, it will collapse a project. This has not happened. There are delays, of course, there are problems and here we are precisely to solve them and not to create the idea that someone has been definitively affected or without a return. Regional airports. Our position is clear. We, as a party, had different thoughts about how regional airports are developing. We wouldn't get into this process. We recognise that it is an inevitable part of the overall negotiation. This applies, because the two ongoing privatisations are registered in the current budget, so they are part of the negotiation. Our positions are also known, we seek ways in which the existing contracts, without cancelling the tender, will greatly improve in favour of the public interest. It's a Delore package, and that's what I'm closing down with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u27	Yunger package, not Delore.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u28	I'm sorry, the Yunger package, and that's what I'm hanging up with. I'm trying to understand the criticism you've made. I'm really saying it. In the Yunger package, almost everything has been done, which one government has to do, every government I would say. There has been an extensive meeting, a visit by Mr. Katininen, the Commissioner responsible in Greece for three days, with a meeting with all the actors: the Ministry, with the BSE, with the National Bank, with businesses, with the whole system. We have visited the European Investment Bank personally and I have almost every week meetings. There has been a meeting of the bodies with initiatives by those who have ideas and so on. We are in the idea of coordinating all these involved in order to strengthen the mood and tendency of very specific initiatives. We have held numerous meetings with the other Commissioners, who have visited research, technology and innovation, and the personal intervention and responsibility of Mr Fotakis. This is all done. Next to this, there is a list of 42 billion projects, which is practically a list of projects, which have no luck in the Juncker package, because they are projects, in particular, which were not included in the programmes of major projects in the past, are fragmentary, immature - most of them are titled - in all technical terms in terms of maturity and substance, rather incompatible with the current Junker programme. So leave the government please. Don't criticize her for that too. We have therefore taken the initiatives to try to find out: firstly, projects which are part of the process and, secondly, at the end of the process, at the end of June, that it is ready for the country to submit projects which, firstly, are compatible and, secondly, have the complete specifications of this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u29	And we, Minister. We are entering the parliamentary process. Parliament's Rules of Procedure precede the party's parliamentary representative who has asked the question and then went according to the parliamentary order. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the truth is that you have not surprised us with your answers, because you have moved into the space of the anticipated government, in the place that we are all already starting and breathing and feeling how much it has faded four months after your victory in the recent elections, the pluralism and how much now the bitter skin of a vulgar populism, a populism that does nothing but use democracy as an alibi, politics as a fenacas and legislation as a pretext. I will be clear and specific. In view of all this literature, which you have produced and daily spread to the Greek society about allegedly negotiating and negotiating in the name of a people's mandate, you have achieved what is incomprehensible, despite what the constitutionalists say. I wonder why the most recent constitutionalists who support your party and who are members of your government have not told you that the people's mandate, that is, this mandate given to the elections by the people to the Prime Minister is not contractual, but it is political. In other words, it is not an order to deal specifically with a particular case, but to rule the place in general. You, therefore, have left aside the entire programme, on the basis of which you have deceived it and now voted for your ideals and obsessions, you have made them the contents of a special people's mandate which has nothing to do with democracy or the Constitution nor with the laws. Of course, you also find willing journalists who do nothing every day but talk to us about the limits of the political mandate. Finally, Minister, your people's mandate is to rule the place. The time the story welcomes you as a government is the day after your victory in the elections. So you have an obligation to rule the place, from where you received it, to where your term of office will end. I hope it ends up in such a way that the smile you usually wear keeps on it then. I am sorry, however, to be sad, but until now, in the four months that have taken place of your victory, you probably have to deal with developments in melancholy. Because in the field of negotiating nothing creative despite the ambiguity you have used and the tricks, despite the gaming theory, have not arisen. The only thing that has emerged is your insistence on threatening your partners and your negotiators that "you cannot throw Greece on the rocks, because in this case, the damage that threatens you to your own Europeans and your economies will be very important". However, this is not an honest negotiation and, above all, it does not appear within the limits of the people's mandate you have received. Because the Greek people have always been proud, they have always been honest, they have always believed in values and, above all, they have firmly committed themselves to respecting the European institutions and the great historical issue of European integration, which you are undermining. The second thing I personally care about - if you want - and as a Member of Parliament is that you are using politics as a genocide. What, from what you promised, have you done this? Apart from restoring this clientele to which you were addressing either the announcements made by Mr Katrugalos before the elections or the announcements made by other ministerial officials at that time. Indeed, you have done so by means of a legislation that has been snatched and unawarely restored by some of the sacked or malicious ones. And if you would like my personal opinion, in some cases, the former government has poorly depleted the trend that it has had to see in the way it was viewed, in terms of the qualitative upgrading and reform of the state, which we all have to do. The most important thing, however, is that, while you are being cut for principles and values, such as the humanitarian crisis - indeed, in this area, we praise you for your sensitivity - you identify it on specific aspects. Is it not a humanitarian crisis that every year hundreds of thousands of victims are sacrificed in Moloch's asphalt in this carniole of Tower - Patras? So you don't care so much about the question that Greece enters the 21st century and does not have a network of motorways? Are you so interested in whether the competition, which you are going to do more broadly, will become three, four different from national suppliers and contractors? Is it of greater value to what extent the profits from a auction will be distributed than how the general social interest will be met? Here too, you are making a great mistake: you are allegedly acting as persecutors of a system of interlocutory, which you have been faithfully serving until now. Of course, if you want my personal opinion, you do it very well, because of the constant threats, I see that these usually intertwined ombudsmen start to go too far. And exactly what you're trying to inspire, supposedly, in society, that you're the first decent government that the place has ever had, some people start to snatch it. But, as I told you, underneath this plating underneath a dirty skin of vulgar populism. The 'first time left' in this place should, at least you, know that it cannot have any meaning, because in a democratic succession of governments there is never a first time. All who take on the privilege of the country’s rulership do so by continuing what had been done before. And if, of course, they would do things differently, that makes no sense, because those who then acted, acted in the name of the people and in the context of a people's mandate. Your own people's mandate therefore does not fall short of value or democraticity from the people's mandate that the Government of New Democracy and PASOK had. And I'm sorry for all these irrelevant, meaningless and insignificant chatter that you've raised in very large ideologies, hollows, holes, without any influence on serious people. Only in the mob that follows you can have. The mob that follows you, if it has, of course, now remained - a very large number, because everyone is aware of the third point I wish to make, that even the legislation of this place is being used as a pretext. The classic case is the cancellation of the Patras - Tower motorway which you did on March 26th, while three - four days later the shareholder was expected to become a member, i.e. the contractor of the performance of this project. Of course, it comes from reading the decision, which you yourself sign, that you obviously did not want to use the law, as you apply it, in order to achieve the results that this law provides. Indeed, in an entirely unexpected and unpredictable way, arbitrary and abusive, you have canceled a project without any important justification. Sometimes you told us that there was no money in the code, sometimes you told us that in the Public Investment Program you did not find any money, at any time your adjoining Minister told us that you were making this specific decision, because you supposedly didn't want seventy-five kilometres of motorway to give it to ordinary national contractors, but by this procedure to make more diverse the participation of more contractors. At last, all of this has nothing to do with seriousness and reality. So how is it possible, while canceling, to use arguments and legislation on revocation? Therefore, your advisers at the Ministry do not have the capacity to distinguish between the withdrawal of an administrative act and its annulment, when the provision of Article 27 n. 3669, i.e. the Public Works Act, clearly distinguishes in paragraph 2 the conditions under which the annulment takes place and in paragraph 4 the conditions under which the withdrawal takes place. So you, with a reasonable revocation, were cancelled. That is why I say to you that you are using legislation as a pretext. And the legislation, Mr Minister, which always applies, is a product of a democratic process. It is a product of the will of the people whose sovereignty we all serve here. And I am very sorry, because, while you are all supposedly writing the book of political theology of the Left in the year 2015, you have nothing else to present, despite the return, the violent regression of the place in the 1980s, where even our partners demand that we move away, as soon as possible, if we want to be saved. That's what I had to tell you. I am sorry, because I would sincerely like to hear policies from your mouth. Here, last year the neoliberal, as you called it, and you call it, the government of PASOK and of the New Democracy, ensured and provided 5 billion to finance public infrastructure projects, which are necessary for the development of this place, which we all expect to come and never come. And what did you do to this day? The 475 million that we had secured for the Patras tower motorway you have done elsewhere - I don't know where too - or trying to use it in another way. And above all in four months it is a question of having used 400 million for this purpose. So who are the neoliberals in this Chamber? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u31	Thank you too, Mr Javarra. We are now starting the series of other parliamentary representatives. I would say to my fellow Members who have a dentist, that it would be preferable - in my view - to give the floor to Mr Spirtzi after the Members of Parliament, so that you can reply. And that's because you then have no other placement, unless you don't want to, so we'll proceed according to the order. Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by reading the New Democracy's topical question, but above all, by listening to its speakers, I was spontaneously thinking 'Science raises its hands up'!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u33	Do you represent science?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u34	I'm trying, as a man of the sciences, to serve her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u35	Because today Mr. Petrakos was very calm, please with the same peace to hear him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u36	Because some must have a lot of nerve, I say, to ask such a question. Because it is indeed necessary for New Democracy to renounce the current SYRIZA Government - ANEL that it cancels what the previous government had built in a lot of trouble and also to write "The Government of Samaras has made great efforts to build public works and infrastructures". Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democrat Republic, do you think you're addressing poems? You claim - your rapporteur claims, he said it in my own country too - that a great deal needs to be changed in the area of public works. The question I'm addressing you is why did you not change it from 2004 to 2009 and from 2011 - why do I remind you that from 2011 you were a government, don't forget it, with Mr. Papademos - until 2015? Why didn't you change it? Was SYRIZA blocking you then? Two. Why have we not had an integrated public works production system in our country for forty years? Is it SYRIZA's fault again for these forty years? Why, although years of work is being built in Greece, does not maintain them at the same time, resulting in much being discredited? Are we to blame again for all this in the hundred and twenty days that we rule? Your speakers have said that the place has been destroyed. Are you serious? Who has been responsible for the policies of austerity and internal devaluation and a tragic reduction in the Public Investment Programme over the past five years? Is it SYRIZA's fault? Who is responsible for why the investment in our country from 2007 to 2014 decreased 64%? Did SYRIZA rule from 2007 to 2014? Who is responsible for the debt being launched at 179% and unemployment at 27%? So we don't go crazy. You told us that you reduced unemployment. One and a half million people are unemployed and the available income of the citizens has been reduced by 25%, as is GDP. Is it SYRIZA's fault? Or is it because of SYRIZA who, from 2008 to 2014, was given over 200 billion to the systemic banks for cash and guarantees: however, the banking system did not work in favour of the growth and investments for which you are being cut. But there, ladies and gentlemen, science not only raises its hands high, but it is delivered literally without conditions and conditions, because it does not go ahead with the work of the concessions of the major motorways. Didn't you make these contracts in 2008, as the Minister told you? You along with PASOK and LAOS were not in the government when these works stopped in 2011? We, as the Minister said, had denounced that these contracts were problematic and heterogeneous at the expense of the public interest, because they had close times for the public, especially the expropriations, which would never be made in these times. It was impossible, in other words, to implement them in these times. Actually, what did you make of the contracts you made? It has worked, regardless of your intentions - good people are, I do not see, we are all good - in favour of concessionaires and contractors, in order to obtain clauses and compensation. That's what happened. Bank financing was backward for four of the five projects. Only in the work of the "Moreas" he was forward and therefore did not stop. Everything else was backwards. And when the crisis broke out, the banks froze the cash outfit, the tolls were dense and expensive and the crisis further reduced the load, because the world is not moving. And what did you do when the works stopped? First, the State dismantled the main advantage involved in the termination of the contracts. Secondly, you started the renegotiation, with the basic principle that the State fully assumes responsibility for the termination of the works, and it was a contractual obligation for the concessionaires to find financing at all times, to have financing at all times. Thirdly, you cut off the natural object by two hundred and fifty kilometers: ninety three kilometers on the main road and sixty - eight kilometers on Olympia Road, Patras - Tower and Good Water - Chacona. Fourthly, you increased the public's financial contribution by 2 billion. And come and forsake us. Where are the projects in the region? You removed from the NSRF 1.2 billion, which was for small and medium-sized projects, which would give life to the region and added to the public's financial contribution for the famous relaunch. Fifth, the entire public took the risk and the risk of entrepreneurial risk. Sixth and more serious, you accepted that the concessionaires have stopped because of universal force. Such force majeure, of course, did not have the other micro-enterprises that closed down all this time. They were the only ones who had force majesty! At the same time, your ideological friends, the Spanish Government, did something simpler. They loaned the concessionaires money, of course. It was not borrowed and it did not reduce the NSRF for small and medium-sized projects, as you did. In conclusion, what did you do with the review? You have transformed the works of concessions, the wonderful PPPs, exclusively in public in terms of financial contribution and private profit. Very good. That's no risk to the concessionaires. That's great! And you're coming now and you're giving up on us. The same, of course, you have done both with PPP projects and with the wonderful work on garbage. Another big fair where, with the guaranteed quantities - and be careful, listen - is to hear about the work of Western Macedonia and the Peloponnese on the first month of each year, the public will pay in advance the thousands of tonnes of guaranteed quantity for how much and then receive them. This is your logic in the famous concessions and the great PPPs. There, of course, you're going beyond every limit is Olympia Street. You dare and refer to your question about this project, when you gave 250 million and at the same time agreed to cut the natural object by 60%, i.e. Patras - Tower and Good Water - Chacona. Also, you increased the price of tolls by 33% on the tolls of "fillets" of Corinth and the Megarons. You come now and say, you guys who did all this, that he's stalling the job when the Deputy Minister revealed all the truth to you about how drugged the contest was. He'll say it himself. I would therefore ask the Deputy Minister now to tell us whether a major project dossier has been filed for the famous work of Olympia. I ask you why you have said 'no' and I wonder if you were wrong. There you are probably referring, gentlemen of the New Democracy, when you say: "We are witnessing and addressing an infrastructure policy that cancels everything with labor and hard work that has been built up so far." [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Do you remember what you did on 25 April 2013? You did the wonderful opening, where the then three-party government, with the presence of Mr. Samaras, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Tsoukalis, celebrated the relaunching of the project. Vassilis Hadjilambrou, who goes through there all the time, made his cross man with his two hands. What's going on? Where are they? And he watched Morea's trucks put labels on them to do what it was "Olympia Road". They brought private trucks from all over the Peloponnese, hired workers to say that they are rebooting. You have literally worked the Greek people with these reboots. I am presenting to the Minutes and the complaint made by the President - the unemployed, then, of the Association of Workers on the "Olympia Street" of "GALARIA", Tedoros Chexes. I have also made the statement that, to hide the haircut of the physical object of the work, they have been organizing no-object plugs. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Petrakos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One is the serious question that I think we can ask the Deputy Minister. Why do you ask? We have to ask any questions. So I ask you a question: Minister, it is clear that there is a great problem in the area of public works - the Minister said so - with the time of maturation. What changes do you intend to make to reduce the time of the projects? That is why Mr Aygeakis has given us away from us, who went to Kalamata and told us all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u37	I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u38	Since Mr. Aygeakis went to Kalamata, to tell him that a 15 - kilometer road in my homeland, the Romanos - Gargalians street, had started from ancient times when I still had black hair. It had to be completed in 2009. From the third year we went to the fourth, we went to the fifth and it's not even finished in 2015. And the owners - look out! - in the elections we were told that they had not received one euro compensation, even though the project has been financed by two Community Support Frameworks. Is it the SYRIZA and the current government to do the Gargalese - Roman project?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Petrako, you're shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u40	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending. Minister, I know that it is tragic for some to admit that they have been ruling the country over the last seven and a half years and that they have done nothing to implement changes so that projects can grow faster. But for me the question is what I told you. We would like you to say that this is perhaps the only question that deserves answer. Of course I would like to ask a second question: what are we going to do to stop public works from being three times more expensive than they are in the rest of Europe? So, ladies and gentlemen, we are renegotiating, trying to improve, as the Minister has said, the lion agreements you have signed. We are resolving the problem of the overcompensation of the ESRB that you have created. We are re-acting public works as a rule with the overall interest and interest of society. So we call on you to make a real contribution to this effort, because, as the Minister said, riskology and destruction are no good. The country has been facing serious problems, you have brought it five years with your policies to disaster, and now it is tragic to continue to destroy you. As I have heard the most extraordinary of a colleague, he says: 'There is a problem with the safety of aircraft'. Mercy, ladies. You fired them all, don't you know that? Don't you know that you fired all the flight security inspectors, that there was no one and we re-entered them? And you come and tell us about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u41	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u42	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, in the same year we will have the same aftermath.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, seventeen students and students and three teachers from the 38th Municipal School of Piraeus. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mrs Panayotarou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Before I started, I had the question that I imagine had a lot of other people: Listening to Mr Javarra, he would think that Mr Javaras is a Member of the European Parliament three months and not ten years, as he is now, and that the party he represents did not co-operate with his brother PASOK for more than forty years, where in his prefecture, in Elijah, there had been almost no work, no streets or anything at all. The current issue of the current question submitted by the New Democracy is entitled 'Public projects'. Wrong title. The title should be worded: "Natural Projects", "AVAX", "TERNA", "INTRAKAT", "Some other companies, including HOCHTIEF". Yes, of HOCHTIEF, which the Greek State put up with more than 400 million euros, as it was the manager of the Airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" - because it was the colonial contract signed by the governments of Mitsotakis and Simitis '93 and '96, and even since then, for the first time, we have no evidence of another contract before it, under English law and any difference between them would be resolved in the Luxembourg courts - which is why HOCHTIEF took 400 million of the VAT and "did" with light bolts. And he returned to public works and is to collect 366m euros for the roads to which the New Democracy, for the part of the Olympic Road, refers, for the part of the Aegean Motorway and elsewhere. Everywhere you will see the HOCHTIEF, which should not take any kind of work again, not only in Greece, but throughout the European Union, if we had claimed it. Or else the title of the timely question could be: 'Bobola Work', because that is what this is all about. Because the company "ELLAKOR" has a number of fifty subsidiaries, most of which have undertaken works on roads, airports, ports, energy, wind parks, garbage management parks, everything literally. And we see a lot of precursor from the New Democracy MPs for the NSRF, in which the funds - which is what the NSRF definition says - would be directed: firstly, investment in the productive sector of the economy. Secondly, to increase productivity and entrepreneurship. Third, upgrade of the educational system. Fourthly, technology research aid. Fifth, social integration promotion. Sixth, improvement of public policies. Seventh, attractive Greek regions. And eighth, infrastructural projects. You have only been in the eighth and eighth infrastructural projects for decades. And from the NSRF 2007-2013 of the EUR 20.4 billion that had been set aside for this NSRF, more than EUR 12.9 billion has been allocated to contractors for semi-finished, missing, defective infrastructure projects, it is assumed, for bridges and go by saying, how much more than since 2008, the country has been in a remission terrible that has never been. Instead of trying to throw them into the primary sector and secondary sector so that there is real growth, bridges and roads. We are very latege, very simple with money and money, whether it is ours or not, because in each ESRB there are 40%, 50%, 60%, which must be found from other sources. In addition, we have further billions, and I repeat, in times of crisis, which you have spent from here and from there, and of course not where it should be. You didn't spend it on real entrepreneurship, but instead of a subsidized - that's a job of prosecutor, the evidence is, they've been made public to check -, intertwined entrepreneurship of certain big-time dealers, who happen to be big-timers, they're the ones who take all jobs, they're the ones who direct public opinion, the crowds, they're often your sponsors, and they're the onlybusiness store in this country that particular scale. In addition to 12.9 billion, there are many more billions, which, through a luxurious web of companies, consortia, where they are themselves again bosses, take the rest of the jobs and absorb all the funds. In fact, in order not to forget what they have collected before 2007 in public investment, in Olympic projects, in the Delore packages earlier, in the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes, tens, hundreds of billions, trillions, and the country is also indebted to them and to others, who have received all kinds of involvement in the armaments and which you have been ruling for forty years. No one else has ruled. Also, the ESRB is not being given to quantifiable bodies, to see where the money is going, but to vague, imprudent consultative actions and elsewhere. They're literally going to the rainbow with the money of the N.S.S.D.A., along with all the other money they got into that country. The recent New Democracy MPs have mentioned the urgent need to link roads with ports and arteries - Mr Skrekas said so - with nodes. The question is who will use these roads and these ports when you have destroyed, you yourself, when you have exterminated the productive tissue of this country? Who will carry products when nothing is produced? Do you make all this to get even more imported products in our homeland? Because growth means producing and exporting, not importing, and even borrowing. How many years is the Athens-Thessaloniki National Road built? As far as I remember, the projects had begun since 1991-1992. We have arrived in 2015 and have still not completed five hundred kilometers. Slowly, okay, whatever it was, for five hundred kilometers, how much money has been given? How much money has been collected from tolls from both toll stations that grow like mushrooms a day and a day more and more, with these colonial, subtle laws of the Vorides, Chrysochoids, who gave it all to the big-workers, criminalized the non-payment of tolls - listen, listen! - to a private person? And why don't you criminalize anyone's non-payment of debts to another private person, but just for them and just for them and no one else? There is no road in western Greece. Thirty kilometers is about out of Agrini and you're preparing tolls. And since we're talking about Iato-Carnania, you yourself paid through public investment, a railway line in Itolo-Carnania that never worked, because the railway line didn't match the wagons you also ordered, which were different from the rails, so we've paid both and see and sit down. What we are constantly paying, however, is that there is no rail network running, that is the power stations. We're still paying for the Messolong station, Agrinio and elsewhere. And you have the courage to talk about investments and projects. What should we want to do first? Remember, as we said before, the tolls you have filled all the National Road of Athens-Thessaloniki, Athens-Kalamatas? Remember that some work was done before Spathovouni on a section of the road and the descents started? No one is punished and in a question of Golden Dawn the current Minister responded "yes, they put asphalt on top" and everything is honey - milk. Remember the two openings of the Tripolis-Kalamata National Road, which immediately after the opening by Mr. Simitis, after two days collapsed the whole road? Depressions everywhere, tens of miles have been broken down. They were rebuilt and reconstructed and no one was punished. From no one was asked for money back, only from the "pig" the Greek people, who paid, paid, and apparently he will pay to the penitentiary every Bobola, every "TERNA", every "INTRACAT", every great-energy slave. What do we remember from everything that's happened? The election 'Karagiozili' by the former Minister of Chrysochoid a few months ago, which went and opened before the tolls of Xylokastro seven kilometers away, with lightning and drum impacts? Anyone who sees the video will think that it has become Greece's most perfect path, and there is nothing at all. Yes, this carmiliola, referred to by Mr Javaras, Mr Skrekas and other MPs, of Corinth - Patras. But you've been ruling for so many years. So don't spit on the thousands of street victims. Because there are also tens of thousands of victims of the memorandum, the measures you have taken and you have not said, you do not say and you will never say a word about any of them. Was any one of them really punished for all these disgraces in public works? Never! Like the example of "HOCHTIEF", which we foretold and rewarded you with new works throughout Greece. We still have the disgrace of Attica Road with the various companies, which one company pays the other, and at the end the amount that the Greek State has to collect is very little to nothing. Also, there are shifts of responsibility constantly, as some MPs, who are cut and sewn to the contractors' measures, as well as changes in the laws, payments, etc. This is how each big businessman can be, when single - scaled he has all his own, and he's never gonna lose anything at all. All for contractors. You talked about growth. Development doesn't come only when bridges and streets are built. Development comes by the existence of products which will be produced and exported through these roads, bridges, rail networks, ports and elsewhere. You do the exact same thing backwards. Were you the same in 2006 when you shrunk one of Greece's largest industries, the "Greek Sugar Industry"? You close the factories, you close everything, and now you come and tell us that the road from Lamia to Egnatia has to open. Since the factories that exist from Lamia to Egnatia have you shut them down, why do you have a road? If the world doesn't move. The movement of vehicles has fallen dramatically. And you're giving the contractors a toll increase again. We don't care. Let's budget it with all the disgrace you've made, gentlemen, by means of roads, roads, roads and all the other companies you have and you're literally draining the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u46	Please, Mr. Panayotare, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u47	I'll be done in two minutes. Don't worry, gentlemen of the New Democracy, as to whether the works will be done. Projects will become normal. There will be no change in the contracts, not just for the projects for which you have today brought a topical question. As you heard yesterday, Minister Varoufakis said that the airport agreement would normally be done, it is not going to change anything. For PPA, everything's progressing properly. They've deceived the PPA's pier in fact. Of the ten thousand containers it has, there are less than two thousand containers, and most of them are 'COSCOs', because they are full of 'COSCOs' and we have to do something. There's nothing at all and they'll take it against a lentil plate. And there will be no change, because in response to the Minister for the PPA, he told us that the only negotiation that is taking place is in the way of the share payment, when the deal is made and nothing else. Let's not talk about PPC. Also, don't be afraid. Let's open a parentheses. Last week, in the two Bobola newspapers, "NATIONS" and "NATIONAL" there was an article on the fact that the need to liberalise the energy market is imperative. You look and if you don't know it's the newspapers themselves, you think it's the press he's talking about. But they were both Bobola's. A third newspaper was found. Mr Alfouzouzou' CATHMENI, who wrote the same article. Obviously, they want one of the companies of Mr Bobola, the "ELPEDISON" here we read, the "ELPEDISON" electricity generation, wants something to build, something more and pressure it as it can through the poor media, which should have been closed and their owners should, at best, be in prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u48	Please, Mr. Panayotare, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President. Forgive me. Everyone spoke too much. Ash in the eyes of the world, the "refoundation" of MOMA, the unique construction project that made the best works at the best prices and belonged to the Greek public. She was denounced by the majestics and her tombstone was in 1992. All the machines were taken by the majestic beer rather than so that they could start doing their fine jobs. It is re-established only for the eyes of the world. If you want, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to justify the many things that you have promised in the election, and it seems that you will do almost nothing, start with the criminal responsibilities of all these particular super-proliferants who take the life of the Greek people, for whom some constantly ask questions, questions and go and say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. Mr Kyriakos Charakides, Parliamentary Representative from Potami, has the floor. Mr. Charakides, you have the floor for six minutes, for both your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, both in Parliament and outside Parliament, what we are watching is a constant confrontation of today's coexistence with previous coexistence. So we are watching the former rulers defend their work and, indeed, seeing the full insurrection of today's conflict, it seems that they are right. Only we need to tell the previous and current people that the Greek people have decided on 25 January and what New Democracy and PASOK decided to go to Anti-Policy and to come up with a new conflict, which is SYRIZA with the ANELs. Unfortunately, however, what we see from today's coexistence is to deal with or fortify what the previous ones have done and not what they will do from now on. So we are witnesses four months now and we see the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative today reporting the data by 2014 and not mentioning from January and beyond what has happened. The Greek people who voted for a new government, a new composition in Parliament, something different, what happens today, what happens tomorrow, that is to say, to see the conditions of the future. And instead of seeing what is happening today, there is this tough, as the government says, negotiation - and I accept it - that this whole process of four months has brought us all into a very difficult situation and they are waiting for this agreement to be closed and nobody knows what it will involve. And we have said as a river that yes, you have the agreement to vote on it. Bring the deal! Don't bring, gentlemen, another extension of the memorandum. Why extension of the Memorandum you signed and extension of the Memorandum, you're finally going to call again. Because if you do not implement until 30 June, if you do not agree next week, as was done yesterday to the Government, then or for an extension we are going or we have lost all the money we have to receive from either the IMF or from the CFSF. I would therefore like to point out that what we need to see, Mr Ministers, is, today, in the negotiation that is taking place, what future conditions will we set and not what terms of the past. Unfortunately, the VAT rate is a one-stop shop. Unfortunately, it monopolises whether the red lines of SYRIZA became pink or not, which everyone accepts now - and the leading SYRIZA executives - that the red lines do not exist. For us the conditions that have to enter this agreement are whether or not the NRP will be extended from 31-12-2015. We have to do this now, because after the extension agreement it won't. And you know very well what the situation is, no matter how much you want to look at a situation. It must now enter into this agreement with the EUR 10.9 billion planned for the refinancing of the banks. Because the banks after this five-month period know what they're in. And you know very well, Minister, in particular, that if you go ahead - and you need to go forward bravely with the regulation of red loans - the banks will need money from there. If you do not foresee this now, the responsibility will also be borne by you as Minister, regardless of whether you said yesterday to us - I do not know how - that you have not met with the institutions so far. I was born a question: About red loans and development law when will you speak? After the deal? 'Cause after the deal, the deal is closed. Unless you mean we're going to the next memorandum to incorporate it, and maybe that's why you're constantly saying every six months that the red loan arrangement will be made. We've been asking questions since February. The answer is'six months', in March,'six months', in April,'six months', in May,'six months'. But the six months are always over. You cannot discuss this today. Today you must discuss, today you must enter. A third point which I would like to raise is that, as Potami and our President Stavros Theodorakis say, there is absolutely no need for this agreement to have the condition, the necessary treaty, the mention that the dialogue on debt restructuring begins. Because with this debt no one believes here and out of here that Greece can go forward. Mr Minister, and yesterday I listened carefully to you, I think, and today with even more attention, to see what is going on in major projects. You said in particular: 'Let someone tell me what is behind a project'. I don't know why you don't have it, but I think you have it. The first document that sent you on April 1st and the second on May 7th, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Technical Companies, says what is being delayed. It is a matter of urgency, in fact. The CEDEFOP has sent you a letter, which says in particular: "The execution of the works of the municipalities and, more generally, of all the operational programmes has stopped." Haven't you received them? I'm sure you both have it. You may not have given the necessary attention. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kyriakos Harakidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are talking about project delays. I will say that there are late payments for what you mentioned, as you mentioned, with a special character if you want or with a smooth statement of why you understand the situation, so we do not pay because we need money, because we have to pay wages and pensions. Okay. Only we need to think at some point about what this delay means and whether or not this delay will bring contractors to a halt. Are we gonna get to a point where we can pay increased costs or not? I heard you talk yesterday and today about PPP. Today perhaps I heard you a little differently. Yesterday you said: "We have no political preferences for PPP or not." The regions decide, but you did not say that the ministries approve. The periphery cannot decide, PPP does not enter the PPP. The PPPs are too small to withstand a PPP. One PPP project alone, particularly in waste treatment plants, is perhaps one-third of a regional programme. Do you forget that the PPPs do not only have waste plants, as many colleagues have said, and in a degrading way? You forget that PPPs have schools, they have firefighting buildings, twenty-four school units, seven, ten, fire buildings, they have broadband networks. Don't you know that? I heard you say today - and yesterday I saw you more positively - that only in Greece are we record the PPPs. And I would like to ask a question: do we have money to go with the Public Investment Programme and do we not know that? So, are you still insisting on what you were saying in Thessaloniki, that there isn't much money, that there's too much money? And today we see nothing of it? I'm against PPPs. I told you yesterday as mayor and as President of the Waste Management Agency and before as Chamber President. I'm from the market, and I'm a businessman. I'm against. But tell us how these projects will be done without co-financing, how will they become outside the PPP? Unless these works are carried, because they are more mature than what you said they are just title entries, and you put them in the list of Yunker projects and go to co-financing and leave the NSRF or the new NSRF. Only you have to say that here, because people are waiting to see how these works are to be done, how municipalities and citizens will avoid paying these millions of fines, which are already being paid. We said that 14.5 million is the first fine that entered December 2nd, 4.160 is the fine for June 2nd, now, in three days and on December 2nd we will have the same fine again. Every six months we will have this fine. Tell us where this money is going to be paid and don't do the projects, just as long as we find this money. We're listening to what previous people have done. You said, too, that the conventions are lionies, that they have clauses, etc. That's great! Five months why don't you negotiate the contracts? Change them if they change. If they're front or backward, if they have any clauses or no clauses, they don't care about the Greek citizen. The Greek citizen did what you requested him, to vote for you to rule the place, to vote for you to change things, to vote for a government "first time left", to see something different. He escaped his idealism, which was "green" and "blue" in the cafes, and entered "pink". He got into something different. Is it a pink? Doesn't he have a shade after all? Shouldn't this Greek man who supported you give you his consent, support and confirm what he was expecting of you? When will this expectation begin to come? Everyone's waiting and they think you're negotiating... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. Thanks for the tolerance. Greeks still believe - you see it from polls, but you sit only in polls and do not produce work - that you are negotiating hard every day. Except when I heard you from not meeting any of the institutions, I realized that none of the government, except the Prime Minister, is negotiating. Negotiations make it a second-series member of the government, who are waiting for a political solution to the issue, as it has already been heard. I want to say to Mr Spirtzi something by closing down, because there has been a reference - I do not remember by whom, I believe, Mr Petrakos - on a very important subject: public works costs. Mr. Spirtzi, we are mocking the Greek people and the Greek society. Today that the minimum wage is EUR 500, we, at the ATTO prices, have a daily salary of EUR 113. We're making fun of the Greek people. This wage is made in a project budget. When a citizen buys the concrete EUR 70 and 80 per cubic euro, the ATTO prices - i.e. the public - the higher prices vary twice and twice. This cannot continue. ATO prices need to be changed, this table needs to be adapted to the projects where they need to be adapted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Bardalis, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go between the conflict between the New Democracy and the conflict. In our opinion, however, one question arises: why now is an issue to be debated in this way - a question from the question of the New Democracy - why, at this time, not yesterday, not tomorrow, etc.Huh? I think the answer through the debate, as it has evolved, has been given. I stand not in detail, but mainly as much as in the main torso of your thought. Road axes, major public projects can contribute to the process of the recovery of the capitalist economy in the New Democracy opinion. And that's why? Because these projects are linked to the gas pipelines, large ports, the rail network, combined transport, the supply chain. That's what they heard. The European Union is also showing great interest in these projects, because roads are part of Europe's transport networks and it has included in its programme to allocate EUR 26 billion over the period 2014-2020. But this capitalist development, ladies and gentlemen, does not have, in its view, satisfying the people's needs, but at the centre of its attention, it ensures the maximum profitability of construction groups and, more generally, business groups. So the question of development does not go generally and vaguely, but, because the term 'development' is not neutral, the question is: Who makes this development to the benefit of whom? Here, in my opinion, we must respond. Do we have to do public works? Of course it must be done. The real question, however, on the specific issue we are discussing is: Public works to the benefit of whom? That is the real question, in our view. Projects to meet the needs of the profitability of business construction groups or projects based on the combined fulfilment of popular needs? This question, in our view, has attempted today to sum up the controversy that has evolved between the New Democracy and the coexistence, and that is why I will try to give an answer within the time available. Firstly, what did the coup d'état respond today? First of all, she wants the projects under way to be completed and to design new ones. Describe previous robbery contracts, wrongly designed, etc. Right, Minister? That's right. And what did he promise? They will study them better and move on to their review. "I'll"! The aim is to find a balance between the public interest and the interest of the business groups that have taken these projects. In other words, they will try to make the impossible, to win, and the construction business groups, and at the same time the people, which is practically impossible. But, in any case, the substance is not going to change. And the substance, whether it has to do with revised or unrevised works, contracts, is that the workers and the people will be paid at the end. Secondly, what are the plans of the government, businessmen and the European Union for the matter we are discussing? First of all, they want to make use of the country's geostrategic position, turn it into a transit energy hub, upgrade our country's role in the wider region and through all this action to ensure the profits of business groups. Does the Communist Party of Greece exaggerate? First of all, eligible projects by the European Union - take note of it, although you know it most - are projects that quickly depreciate the initial investment and ensure the maximum return on the capital invested. Only these projects are financed by the European Union. Why does the government go on privatising the Egnatia Road, airports, ports, OSE and others? What is the point of maintaining and adding new tolls, such as, for example, to the Egnatia Road and to the vertical axes? Why keep toll prices, which - to remind of - in recent years have increased by 500% since 2008? And if, in any case, there is a slight decrease of 10% or 15%, this is where 500% were raised! A drop in the ocean! The electronic analogue tolls proposed by the government, in essence, are a measure to gold the pill. Why, at the moment we are talking about, the regional road network, which is more concerned with people's needs, is falling apart and no one is involved in this? Why are they not eligible projects such as earthquake protection and anti-military armour? The answer to all these questions shows that large projects are designed and implemented on the basis of the needs of the profitability of business groups, all serving the development of the capitalist economy, neglecting the satisfaction of modern folk needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why privatizations, which is why tolls are not chosen for earthquake protection and anti-military armour. On the other hand, these projects which are necessary to ensure the profitability of large capital are double and three times as much money as the people. He pays them to build and pays them back to use them himself. But what was the role of the state for all these years? First of all, it even retreates to the contractual obligations it had signed with the construction groups. Here we agree with the remarks made by the Minister regarding the conditions for reopening. Only Mr Screkas and the Minister forgot to say the fourth, that at the time there were also a number of punctuations, which could be more than EUR 700 million in total, and there are those which are now being demanded by the construction groups. For example, I have in mind the group that has the work of the Thessaloniki subway, which has demanded over 560 million today - no matter how much it will take, I am referring to the demands it has today. Of course, the main thing is that whatever happens to these projects, ensured is the profitability of the construction groups by the signature you signed. Secondly, the previous government with its anti-grass laws, reduced wages and wages, changed labour relations, putting back and thereby ensuring maximum profitability of construction groups. The current government, however, maintains all this anti-popular legislation. That's not what he's talking about. A characteristic example of how this whole anti-galactic framework was exploited is again the metro of Thessaloniki, from my area. The projects have been stopped several times, and now the same is the case, Minister. The project has stopped since December. I say it because you were looking for a project. There's nothing going on. In the first few days some archaeological excavations have been made, they have now stopped. Workers were made redundant and re-employed on average 45% in previous years. Today, of course, it is again in unemployment. The engineers in these projects, they work with blocks, with wages above - below - 800 euros and insurance from their pockets. The same happens in almost all major projects. So this capitalist development you want and this capitalist development has winners, it also has victims. The winners are capital and victims of the workers and popular strata. By the way, because the Minister has mentioned this, I would like to say this about the delays and blackmails of business groups: at the very first opportunity, in any case, at the least, they are at risk. Our opinion is - and it is important - that toys are played on the workers' backs and is integrated into the pressure that exists in general. The delay, the stopping of projects does not damage major construction companies. They will find them with their governments and with today's government, Minister. They're not gonna lose anything. The people who will pay for the marble are the workers and the people more widely. For example, on the metro of Thessaloniki too many, hundreds of small maggots have closed their shops, because we are going to be delayed and can't last eight years in front of a sheet. Thirdly, through its more comprehensive legislative intervention, the State contributes to a further concentration and concentration of capital and in the construction sector. In fact, we are talking today about three major construction groups that are building such large projects and not just large ones, but more than eighty of the total public works in our country amounting to EUR 2.3 billion. Small and medium-sized contractors disappear slowly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, is there a solution? Because you're going to say that it's a good review. For the Communist Party of Greece, however, for the benefit of the people, it can only be the single socialist body of construction, which will gather all the necessary means and resources available and deal with all the projects, from the study phase to the construction phase and their operation. These are projects based on the combined satisfaction of people's needs. Construction of necessary projects with appropriate priorities. Complementarity with regard to their operation, with a view to the rapid, cheap movement of persons and products, energy savings, balanced human intervention in the environment, planned development to eliminate regional inequality, complete control of the defence and security of another state, but the working people's state. To do this, of course, is the socialisation of monopolies, the scientific centralization of the economy by labour control and the unbundling of the European Union. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, one must stand by why this time and the specific issue of this parliamentary intervention was chosen on the part of the Staff Regulations. I say this because if anyone - the Minister - will do so, he is invited and will be at the BSE conference - he will now go on his way to Patras, he will see that the contractors are already playing the same work. They've almost stopped. In the last few days few works have been done, there are fewer workers. Mr Javarras and other colleagues have said something about whether or not the contractors are satisfied with the current government. Today a newspaper has on the front page, so unresponsively, a statement: “John’s Gospels to Government. Mr AVAX!’. Next week, at the same time, the notices on the licenses of television stations are coming. The Deputy Minister is here. What don't they like? What do they lose? The means of achieving what you have heard from Mr. Petrakos. Indeed, Mr Javarras does not remember - he was, like myself, a MP at that time, when this work was announced by the government of Mr Karamanlis - what did the contract say? It was named Olympia Street and it was said that it will arrive at Olympia and, further downwards, near Mr Samaras' homeland in the Good Water. But she only stayed in the name. And with the same money as Patras. Same money, not the same money. Mr. Petrakos said plus 800 million, so that the Greeks and Greeks could hear about it, so they could know. Just so the new ministers know. Minister, in the Papademos government, who is sourning today with a statement by Mr Samaras in the newspaper 'AGORA', do you know what was the first legislative initiative? Your colleague at the Ministry, Mr. Vorides, brought that OSE convention, which had gone to justice, which was not going through, to get legalisation from here, so that no one would be in danger and, possibly, to allow some to think 'the ministers whose wills they do, how do they put the priorities, how do they choose?' Today comes this conversation. Because what we have been saying for days, Mr Javarra - and you know it - is what the intertwiners, the pimps, said by our friend - and friend - Kostas Karamanlis, are destabilizing, they want another government. Now, "Turnara" will be called, what will they say? And Antonis Samaras came with this, then, the porn statement. Did you read this statement from the former Prime Minister in the newspaper "GORRA", to see where your mind goes? Today's statement. What's he saying? It says: 'Great understanding'. Nice? "Today, because we know exactly what risks the country is threatening, we propose to them a great deal of understanding." The one Mr. Samaras didn't want when he proclaimed the election when the others asked him. He wants it now. “He is threatened by Adoni to leave,” he says today. And he tells you: "To lose my place, let's go to great consultation. As long as they're gone, however." And there are willing men. "Potarmaid" and "foreigners" say. You know, however, we are all talking about this initiative by Mr Samaras today in the Cannes setting up. You have learned, I imagine, from the lips of strangers how the change of government took place at that time. He called - he says - his friend, Mr. Samaras, telephone and said to him: "Speak to Papandreou. The elected Prime Minister, with a hundred sixty-three Members, will leave. Speak for them to be arranged.’ And that is why, again today, in a large newspaper of centre-right, the newspaper 'Parapolistica', you can hear the revelation. And I believe that a statement should come out today by Mr Samaras and disprove it - I hope he will deny it - the report. Mr. Ministers, listen to it and you may not have seen it. "Yunker relations" - Samara. A wild fight." What is it - says - the occasion? The former Prime Minister read in the text that his friend hung him, as he proposed direct financial assistance to Greece, without the slightest "reverse". And what did Mr. Samaras say to him? Instead of telling him "good to do this, congratulations, it doesn't matter if it favours my political opponent", a fragile politician would say and he would be happy,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u56	And that's what it says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u57	Here's what he said to him, Mr. Javarra. "Five years, you've got us in the press, and now you're saying you're gonna send money without any requirement? And who will pay?" Antony Samaras said so. Please take it for the Minutes, because I see that my colleagues, despite the fact that it is today's paper 'Parapolistica', do not really want them to claim, today, from the one who brought the disaster, and that, if it is true, they want to resign today. If that's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u58	We are the 'political', not 'para-political'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u59	I hope it's not true. Otherwise, you know, not only will today's statement be porn, but it will be in that well-known doctrine, which instructed its ministers, 'four'. Ladies and gentlemen, now really, shouldn't you be quiet about this? Speak of the great efforts you have made in previous years in the construction, auctioning, integration and delivery to the public infrastructure society, when all efforts and struggles were to lead all the projects to the hug of the big-busters, the well-known Karamanlis, 'pimps', indifferent to the overcompensation of the projects, the very small discounts given by the contractors' cartel to complete the works and deliver them to society? Minister, 2% discount, says, the Panagopula Tunnel, and two months later the last piece came up with a 45% discount. Do you dare, then, talk about the integration of as many projects as possible into the NSRP, when, as has been published - almost half of the EUR 20.4 billion of the NSRP was absorbed by national contractors, creating a covert oligopoly, which has been deprived by the region of a number of projects necessary for its development, but also valuable resources from the rest of the market that was dissolved in the middle of the memorandum? Do you dare, in fact, accuse this new government of a policy in the infrastructure sector that it brings about, says, already disastrous consequences to the Greek economy and society, when the blatant delays and deadlocks in the projects that you are going through have created a terrible situation in the projects, with tragic consequences for the development and continuation of their funding from the Community funds, and the risk of a return to huge sums of Community funding already being seen? Do you dare talk about works that you have led to deadlocks? Do you dare talk - I will say again - about the Patras tower project, when you cut the Olympian road to do the gift of the well-known big-workers and the banks? Do you dare also speak of the subway projects, when did you rally the work of the Thessaloniki subway? You heard the KKE's colleague just now. Are we really going to pay for the submarine tunnel in Thessaloniki, Mr. Bobola, which never happened? Do you really have 80 million, Minister? Good for you, if you give them up. Do you dare also talk about railway projects, when you have turned OSE and ERGOSE into a man of national contractors, who are devouring national and Community resources, without ever ending the projects they are taking, so that they are not threatened by a modern, fast and reliable rail network their interests on the major roads, which will be exploited exclusively for decades by means of revised concession contracts, which you voted scandalally in December 2013? Do you dare talk about the works of the Kiato - Rododafni, Rododafni - Psathopyrgos, when your Prime Minister and Government ministers closed their eyes to the very small discounts - as I said - and when Mr Samaras personally was informed, as I mentioned, on relevant questions, which he never answered about a EUR 65 million hat in the Rododafni - Psathopyrgos project? I saw Mr. Hatzidakis. Is he here? Kostis, I imagine you remember the signing of this contract of 579/2013, Friday it was 21 June 2013, while the government crisis with the departure of DMAR from the government was at its peak, in order to verify the popular saying that “the wolf is rejoicing on the bulwark”. Ladies and gentlemen, do you dare to talk about roadworks with the revision of the initial concessions, which Mr Chrysochidis promoted in December 2013? When I saw Mr Chryssohoidis, I tried again to give the same explanations, which I wanted to give to Mr Vorides when, at that time, he became Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u60	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u61	I shall conclude, Mr President. And you made a law with your vote on state-owned and interconnected businessmen who build the projects concerned with additional billions of euros? In this resolution, therefore, I would like - because I will close - to tell you that SYRIZA was opposed in total. Indeed, Mrs Constantopoulos, Mr Stathakis - I do not see him here reminding him - and many other SYRIZA Members then talked about this great scandal. Yesterday I tabled a 20-page question, including all the statements by half the SYRIZA Government, Mr Javarra, on this. So now I will tell Mr Spirtzi that any new revision of contracts is difficult to accept if it does not move on the axes of what the current government ministers mentioned in December 2013 in the House. The revision cannot have all those scandalous aspects. Mr Spirtzi, you can't really give it to them for another forty-five years. Is that possible? I don't know, of course I expect to see what it is that we get. We're meeting on a new Attica Street? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that for the national consultation, Mr Javarra, he has another newspaper today, Mr Pikula's 'Axia'. So it's a line, you know where you come from, right? From the company.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u62	Please finish, Mr. Nicolopole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, today, which seems to have a new agreement in a few days' time, it is really time for Mr Samaras to leave any thoughts of destabilisation, and if, in fact, he wants a small offer to do in this place, he has so much troubled him with his Prime Minister, and if the least he has to do with this fact, which, due to him, has been divorced with the people's forces, which have supported it all these years, he should resign after today's statement - porn which he has made in the newspaper 'AGORA'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos, PASOK Parliamentary Representative. We'll start with six minutes, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u65	Like the previous ones, Mr President. Thanks anyway. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, since we are discussing the projects today, we are obliged to remember that the progress of major projects, small and medium-sized, is always linked to a country's overall development path. Projects feed and feed back on growth. A return to the period mentioned by the Minister earlier, i.e. the period 1996-2004, can confirm it. On the occasion of this report, you will allow me to make my first political remark. Minister, it is not the big projects for the country to collapse. The major projects of that period were the result of successes of our country at all levels, economic, social and development. The country collapsed because budgetary and macroeconomic data were overturned from 2004 to 2009. And that's not what works are responsible for. That is why the government at that time is responsible and has a name and surname. But you, in a peculiar immunity you have provided to Mr Karamanlis, are never talking about during that period and to those who were responsible at that time, and we find that every time. And in the examination, you excluded him from coming to tell us what happened. Why this protectionism? My second point, now, is the following, again with what Mr Stathakis has confessed to us. What did he say? He told us that the attitude of payments is linked to the negotiation and that we are waiting to see what the evolution of things will be and given that we are currently unresolved, we cannot pay for the reasons that have to do with serving other needs, more direct, of the public possibly. Admissibility, but not that everything is going well as the Minister has told us, namely growth is going well, employment is going well, liquidity is going well. None of this is going well. Now, my third political point is about what the Minister also said about the national awareness of the strategic negotiation. I would say that this is the only point we could agree with him from what he said. Because we - and I believe - have a sense of national responsibility for the negotiation. But this feeling, Minister, is not given to us by the government by its actions and contradictions. What's been going on all this time? Starting on Monday, the deal and Friday we've reached the break. And now that the knot reaches the comb, things have accelerated. We start in the morning with the deal, and at night we come to a break. And Mr. Tsipras said the day before yesterday after the meeting at the Ministry of Finance, he must take decisions on the basis of what he committed himself to Eurogroup on 20 February, and he can no longer make fun of either SYRIZA and his members or his parliamentary group. Yesterday, by the Committee of Inquiry, what we asked Mr Varoufakis - and Mr Venizelos with a request for documents, and we -, the signature of the main financial contract, to read it out by Mrs Constantopoulos and to see that the Eurogroup communiqué was not a communication, a statement, had commitments for the country. And these commitments - the English law, the Luxembourg courts, the extension of the memorandum - were signed by Mr Varoufakis. Until when are we gonna live in lies? The lies end and the consciousness of national responsibility must be taken over by the government and the majority. I'm coming now to see what the ministry is doing in this context. What is the Ministry doing in this context, ladies and gentlemen? The first thing he does is to cancel the operational programme of the Ministry of Transport, which was approved in December 2014 by the European Commission. We will now see the arguments he uses for this cancellation. He says it's a project summation, which is immature. I therefore call on the Ministry's leadership to refer to pages 419 to 422 of this programme and to tell us what work it is described here thinks it is unnecessary and to address the local communities. Secondly, to tell us if he ever knows that when we do infrared actions, there is an absolute commitment or an overcompensation. Because the act has never shown that everything is being implemented, so in the course of the course a cleansing is taking place. So why do you come from the beginning and undo this? I will give two examples of how mature the projects included in this programme were. One is Rododafni - Rio. Adopted on 24 March. He's been auctioned and he's inside. Overtime. The other overtime, which I am going to mention in detail, was the Patras - Tower road, which was part of the outstanding part of the Olympian Road with studies and expropriations. He endured, then, overripe. So excuses don't work. Of course, Mr. Stathakis actually put the NSRF under comitology after meeting with the Commissioner here in Athens, confessing his inability to manage and complete the NSR 2014-2020. This is the first time - a co-manager for the European Commission - to declare our inability to carry out what is at national level, in contrast to what Mr Stathakis said on 1 April that the NRP is doing well and has structures that operate. What is the government's target in my view? First of all, he wants to change the list of projects. Why would he do that? Because he may have other political priorities. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are the political priorities of each government interpreted by local societies, their collective needs and claims? How was the list of previous projects drawn up? It was a brain structure of Mr Chrysochoidis and the Ministry's services or was the result of a dialogue with the regions of the country, the municipalities and so on.Huh? So tell us how you draw up the new list and who you'll deal with. Unless the dialogue is within you as is done in the SYRIZA Central Committee on Negotiation and not about society, it is not about Parliament, it is not about the institutions. The other thing he's doing is a very clear attempt to redistribute the pie. Because the government at this stage is in its rhetoric 'we are fighting the interests'. Now, whether he fights the interests or strengthens them with other acts, we will say it when this time comes. What are we afraid of? Don't we lose the frequencies? Who's taking the frequencies? Will a man take them, poor and despised? Competition is tough at all levels. It makes a huge mistake for the government to intervene within competition. I say, then, that in the logic of fighting big interests, we will give jobs to the smallest interests. Is this about the people? Is there a contractor here, gentlemen? Do you have shares in companies? Are you getting a piece of these profits? The people require transparency, rules and efficiency in the implementation of major projects. For all this, the characteristic example is what concerns my constituency, and not only - it concerns western Greece, the Ionian Islands, the Peloponnese. The cancellation of the competition of Patras - Pyrgos street removes from the road map a part of our country, Elia, and cuts off the road network that starts from Athens to Corinth and Patras, so that it ends up through the Tower in Tsakona and comes to make the circle through the northwest axis, the so-called Morea, through Olympia Road. It does so in a very challenging way in the context of what I said earlier: firstly, it resplites the pie and secondly, it doubts the financing of the project. Just look at Mr Stathakis' decision that he cancels and does not postpone the competition. I would welcome it in good faith - I told him when we visited him - that a new government wants to see many things again, and when it is in a phase of transition, because we have a negotiation, it can suspend a process to assess whether things will allow it to commit funds or define other priorities. It is another thing to suspend - which we could see in good faith - and another thing to cancel the competition, and much more, to fragment the work to serve those we want to serve. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have undertaken to implement projects and complete them. You didn't undertake to sell reetals. Because it's relics. I hear you're going to cut the road into six, seven, eight, ten, twelve contractors. I don't know how many. Do we care if we have a department from one village to the other or if we have a highway? More importantly, we care that this work is public. This work has gone through with a tough negotiation within the House at the time of the adoption of the revised conventions, and SYRIZA's colleagues have also agreed. Because every man who is progressive, left, wants not to go to the co-financed, when some are not of interest to them, but to public works. Of course, in order for a public project to be done, there must be a state, a budget and the economy must function.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u66	Finish, Mr. Koutsuko, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to say that for us the completion of major projects and motorways is a commitment that the government has made to the people, to whom it promised something better, accusing everyone and everything, leveling up and saying things that are absolutely impossible. In order to do this, Greece must stand on its feet. Greece is currently hanging in a thread. We hope that calm and reasonable views will prevail and not go to the cliff, which is the disaster. Because any other agreement, since we lost four months, is indeed painful. And the account has to go to those who with their delays and ambiguities have created this whole problem. I conclude by saying this: if we do not manage this, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the other way forward, which is the path of the MOA. Mr. Kammenos is reconstructing the MOMAs. If, Minister, you do not review the contracts as recommended by your government partner of the Independent Greeks, you have another tool. Hey, get it out on the road. We are in the post-American state that the MOAs have come into the mountains to orchestrate them to fight the Democratic Army and the resistance then. Let's get us back there. If that's your dream, hello, with your pleasure. We want a modern Greece, to complete and improve what we have delivered to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Before giving the floor for dentistry to the honourable Members, the Minister, Mr. Spirtz, will take the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u69	Mr. President, Mr. Stathakis... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u70	Before the Minister begins, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-five students and schoolchildren and six educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Immigration of Magnesia, the 10th Elementary School of Nea Ionia Magnesia and the Municipal School of Sternes of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, for a man who is in the field of works and knows him, the only reasons why the topical question is to oppose the previous government and the Chief of New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u72	It is good not to advise parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u73	No, no. It's the only reason a guy who knows about these works you're asking about, to interpret...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u74	You're not a MP and it doesn't make you use...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Javarra, you'll talk later. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Javarra, thank you for your advice. You'll tell me if you want to drink coffee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u77	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u78	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u79	Because here is something you must respect, which you are obviously ignorant of. And I'm sorry you're ignoring it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u80	Then, Mr. Javarra, let's hear what the Minister will say. You're noble.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u81	I'm sorry you're ignoring it. There is popular sovereignty here, which we represent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u82	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u83	You cannot make suggestions to Members of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u84	I didn't give a hint, Mr. Javarra. No hints.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Javarra, let's hear what the Minister will say. You're an old parliamentarian and noble.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u86	Because I'm an old parliamentarian, I'm saying this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u87	Let the Minister speak and I'll give you the floor. Young people are being watched, and they must see proper parliamentary practices. Then you'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u88	He has an obligation to answer and not control.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u89	You're supposed to be respectful. Because you're a non-parliamentary... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u90	You will take the floor later, Mr. Ausgeakis, as you have a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u91	A little respect doesn't hurt. Because he's a non-parliamentary, he has to respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Ausgekis, don't make a contest who'll yell more. Please. Show the courtesy he needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u93	When you're on the sidewalk to vote... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u94	Let's hear the Minister. He listened to you very carefully all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u95	You can shout as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u96	And no spirit!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u97	He can talk. He'll say his own views, not yours. Mr. Ignace, you don't have the floor. It's over! And I beg you to keep an eye on the Minister. Please. Continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u98	I would therefore like, before replying to a specific project, to present my views on what you are referring to in the timely question and the reasoning you are developing. Because, Mr. Javarra, they don't talk about a rope at the house of the hanged man.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u99	Ours hasn't hanged yet. You look... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u100	You say that in the past two years the Samara - Venizelou government has made great efforts to build public infrastructure. You also say that, unfortunately, the last three months of the new government in the field of PPPs, investments and major projects are barren. Let me report to you the Bank of Greece's findings for 2013 and 2014, why you forgot these: 28% unemployment, production of concrete, from ELSTAT's 2013 figures, five million three hundred thousand tonnes, with a 52% drop, direct or indirect employees in 2013 were five hundred eighteen thousand, a reduction of 36%. That's not what you're saying. You insist as if it were yesterday in a social impoverishment policy that you brought to the country. You are still not aware of the damage you have done in the country, in society, in the institutions and in the production structure. You refer to your text that you are witnessing and addressing an infrastructure policy that cancels everything with effort and hard work that has been built by you. Really, have you worked too hard? We are proud of what we are doing, of what you are accusing us of, because we are canceling the policies of overcompensation of projects. You guys worked hard to overcompensate the works. Only in road projects, 95% are in large companies. Of course, you have also accumulated thousands of scientists who are unemployed, resurrected. And that's why you worked! You have done a great deal of work, done and done for the projects and for the interests and not for the productive reconstruction of the country. We, therefore, are in a different direction, for what you are accusing us of, we are very proud of it. Why are we stopping the policy of conventions that govern foreign banks and large construction houses, with contracts that we are proposing, which guarantee the public interest and the Greek society. We stop your habit of making white black, with inauguration and ribbons and set up ceremonies. Mr. Petrakos said so too. We stop the foot plays, which cost the Greek people multiples. For there to be and do not forget either your executives in the days of opening or the image of the construction sites in the other days, two days later, I submit these for the Minutes. Keep them in the Minutes, remember them. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] We are proud, because we stop downgrading and dismantling public administration. We are proud that we are negotiating the interests of the country and of Greek society. We're really proud of what you're accusing us of. You say you hear nothing about our plan. As a matter of fact, you write within the question: "For new projects that will bring friends and investors to give new jobs". It is obvious that we are not looking for friends to give new jobs like you, nor to hire friends to new jobs like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u101	We mean friends in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u102	We are fighting for a country where projects and investments and jobs will be directed to all in Greek society and not to friends of investors. Indicate that in December 2014-February 2015 forty major competitions totalling 747 million euros had been scheduled. How would you implement them if you didn't speed up the election? From the non-existent electronic system of the Hatzidakis Act, i.e. L.4281 of August 2014? From unexistent ministerial decisions? From the non-existent presidential decrees provided for by that law? You're really right. The evidence is unrelenting. For the work of the Patras - Tower motorway, a budget of EUR 470 million, could not be auctioned on 27-1-2015 or when you postponed on 13 February or when you postponed on 31 March. I mention the inside works and we will come back to you later on about what the government is doing. The Conservatory of Athens, about 8 million, 7,931,000, is of the Municipality of Athens. It wasn't even a auction. Report the works for the restoration of illegal land. I'll tell you the four that are charged to the Ministry: the fourth watermelon of Thessaloniki, a budget of 5 million euros. It has never been auctioned because the study needs to be updated. Second project: subsidence tank in central Macedonia. A budget of EUR 2.5 million. It has never been auctioned because the study needs to be updated. Third project, biogas repository. It has never been auctioned because the study needs to be updated. Fourth project, wastewater treatment projects. A budget of EUR 4.5 million. It has never been auctioned because the study needs to be updated. There's a bunch of other things I don't want to keep going. The new airport in Kastelli: You changed two - three times the project design. There are missing expropriations and all the others you know about. We said from the outset - we did not hide - for the airport in Kastelli that will be done, but also for the rest of the concession projects, such as the Salamis - Perama or the Lefkada link, that we would like to see the conditions that you wanted to auction. We do not agree with this policy, with these concessions. It's not forbidden by anyone. That's what SYRIZA and ANELs who support the government in the Greek people said. What do we do at least for the Salamis - Passover connection? We are looking at the terms, as in Kastelli, and we are looking at the road link with Shhsto and we want to consult society, not write our shoes in our old. Elefsina - Thebe - Material: This concession is the big trick. This is a competitive concession motorway to the "New Road" that would reduce the burden and demand other money or increase toll. Of course, in terms of terms and tender forms, there was a commitment to tolls in this concession, however cheap the work was, not to be less than 85% of the tolls of the parallel highway. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I must inform the Members of Parliament of one - one of the things they are asking. You're talking about fixed track projects that's in progress 12. First project: extension of 3 metro line of Athens. Ask about this project how it is implemented and how it is supported by your legislation. Learn to see the consequences of the legislation you have voted on. Only the VAT you have made is not paid for the bodies of the public and hence the 'ATTIF', more than 10 million cannot be offset. The same thing, of course, with the same legislation, was done for expropriations, i.e. the same hindrances. Second work which is a joke, especially when people from a particular party invoke it: the main line of the Thessaloniki metro. What to start with? The story of the late Kouvela, Mr. Souffle, or your modern destructive policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u103	He's not a late guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u104	I thought he was forgiven. I'm so sorry. Be a strong man. I thought so. So Mr. Kouvella's. In 1992 the project will be auctioned as co-financed. In 1999 it was awarded. In 2002, the concessions with test drilling expire. In 2004 it is re-published as a public project. In 2006 it is awarded to the consortium. You have arrived at a project that took place in 2006, amounting to EUR 900 million and which provided for archaeological works to be completed in a year with a budget of 15 million, to have reached the archaeological works to 140 million - and God has! - and for the work that should have been completed, as you said, in six and a half years, there should be 670 million claims and applications for some seventy arbitrations. We have closed in the tenth year and 55% of the civil engineering projects and 0% of the electromechanical projects have been implemented. What do you ask? Have you made a Gordian bond here all these years and you say 'Why didn't you solve him in two months?' You also had a general secretary there, from the area of Thessaloniki to the public works, Mr. Simopoulos, who makes statements and criticisms about the metro of Thessaloniki and the evolution of the project. You need to have paramedical fantasies for both this project and the technical sector as a whole. From the "hole" of Kouvela we've been in ten years in a messy town. The third project: the Kiato - Rododafni railway line, 31-1-2012, with a budget of 77.5 million. It had to end in June 2015. It has been executed 50% of the project. The fourth project is the Rododafni-Psathopyrgos railway line, on 21-6-2013, with a budget of 293 million. It must be completed in January 2017. 2% of earthworks have been executed, artificially open to 1% and railway work 6.3%. You ask us about motorways and mention the Corinth - Patras project. Two weeks now, Mr Javarra, I have been answering you for the Corinth - Patras project. But let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u105	Sure. Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u106	Let's talk about it. It's okay. The project started in 2007. As in all concessions, the archaeological work and expropriations were planned in six months. A review of the contracts took place in 2013. I tell you, honourable Members of the New Democracy, that even that in 2007 Mr Soufflias was not well known and put in these times. We're very well placed to avoid Mr. Koutsoukos accusing us. He didn't know. In 2013, two years ago, we ask you: did you not know the open wounds of the project? Didn't you know which expropriations are pending? Didn't you know what archaeological work is pending? Didn't you know that these could not have been solved by December 2015, when you set a date to finish the works? Did you not know how many points - for your region, Mr Javarra - the motorway has been paved and incited by the motorway, which has not been solved for so many years, whether the concessionaires will do so, whether the 'ERGOSE' or what contractor of 'ERGOSE' will do so? Eight years!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u107	I'll answer you later. Thank God I have the right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u108	Didn't you know that? You knew it. And yet, you set delivery dates in December 2015 and did not provide a line in the contracts to guarantee the Greek State. You have it hostage and charm to pay clauses because it's the fault! Not to pay, of course, within the crisis the millions of Greek people from delays of the Greek public who knew they would exist! That's what you're telling us. Today, then, 55% has been implemented in this project. The same applies to the E65, of which 57.24% have been implemented. That's where you've made an international originality. You ask us, honourable Members of this area, about the road. There you cut - in the review contract - the first part and the last. You've made a bridge in the desert! And you ask us about the viability of the project! The tracks don't put Lamia together with Egnatia, they're cut in the middle. I shall refer to the Aegean highway and the Ionian road. For the Ionian Road, 51.4% has been executed. Same here, delays of motorways for archaeological work. Let us know that the above projects continue, solving every day - every day! - problems and loose ends that you have left, so that the Greek people do not pay any clauses or delays or as they are described. But you also ask about "Moreas". That's a nice question. Why didn't you review this contract? You want to let us know? You brought the four conventions to the House. Why didn't you bring the fifth? The work when this government took over was stopped or was it blooming? So, tell us. Do you want to tell us about the consequences these projects have in society economic and development? You want to tell us about the toll prices? You see these works inside the country or you see them on their own, don't you, as an exercise?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u109	Minister, let's move forward towards integration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u110	What am I supposed to do? I have been asked about too many projects, Mr President. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u111	Let's ask us more questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u112	You're telling us about works at airports and ports. The extension of the airport...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u113	You're going to drive us crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u114	You'll drive us crazy, Mr. Javarra. You're not going crazy. You're telling us about works at airports and ports. The extension of the airport "MAKEDONIA" with a budget of 246 million was signed on 31-11-2005. It had to be completed on 31-12-2015. It's not that date that we put it all the time. It's the end of the ESDP. I'll see you later. Chania Budget 110 million, 16-6-2013, will have to be completed on 17-12-2015 and 35% has been completed. The N.R.R.D. is coming to an end. Where will the rest go, Mr. Ausgeakis, who has made such a wonderful programming? In the Public Investment Programme, because we have financially blooming in the country and a large public investment programme! You voted for the budget. Mr. Ausgenakis, both of these works suffer. Because the PSC you're asking should have spent 70 million on these projects for years. Your government and the administrations you had placed in the DPO, because you were very diligent, had forgotten that completely. Even one euro had not been provided by the Civil Aviation Service. Of course, in order to uncover these projects and not to be transferred to the NSRF, the PSC was obliged to give some money at this juncture, that is, what it should have done. The results not only have consequences for the projects but also for the OSH. That's why you better not ask us. Better meditate or apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u115	Let's do a voodoo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u116	You can voodoo if you want. You should have done that before. You're asking for the next auctions for the subway 4 line. It's part of the ETUC and it's going to move on. With regard to the tower - Patras - because you still do not understand - the end of June with the beginning of July will become partial tenders, contrary to the work you had designed for the same big companies carrying out 95% of the country's road projects. And, by God, this is where the ball is lost with what you're saying-- you're not tired of healthy competition? Aren't you saying that competition, professions, markets and all that? Why is that bothering you? Is it not because it will prove to be the real budgets of the motorways that are currently being hidden under concessions? I'm saying, is that it? For Kastelli Heraklion, we complete the examination of the terms of the competition. The aim is in mid-June that these new terms should be consulted and that the auction should be held by mid-September with another model, Mr Aygeakis, not what was announced. Not with the percentage of the public less than 50%, not with the model you are serving, that is to say, the Greek people should also pay investors to collect, the Greek State should not be guaranteed and paid overtime for delays. We don't do that. Excuse us, but we don't. But what works did you forget to ask us? You forgot, Mr. Ausgeakis, to put them on the list. You forgot to tell us about the underwater. Mr. Nicholas, it's not 80 million. With interest it's over 100 million. You forgot to ask us about the four plays of Paronia. There again the combination of your political ancestor, Mr. Sufflia, and your modern "effectiveness" have done miracles. The first project had to end on 16-6-2015. He's been executed at 49%. The contractor's claims are 5.1 million additives. The second project had to be completed on 16-12-2015. 37% has been implemented. The contractor's claims are 5.2 million. The third project had to be completed on 8-6-2015. It's over 35%. They're asking for 5.3 million. In the fourth you can imagine that they're asking for 5.4 million people, they're in line. 52% has been implemented and must end on 13-12-2015. You forgot about the port of Igoumenitsa. That's a big project. This is a book of best practice that we should write, with the stages of the port of Igoumenitsa, so that the whole world does not forget, not only Greece. In the third phase, on 8-8-2011, the contractor was declared to be a second subsidized contractor. The completion rate is 5%. Let's tell you about the second phase, if you want, it's 90%, it's over with the NSRF, it's fine! In the Public Investment Programme, it's all fine! The Greek people pay for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u117	Let us know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u118	You want me to let you know about phase two?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u119	We're on third now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u120	I told you about phase three. What I said was for the third.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u121	Now. What's the development?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u122	We're at 5% and it has to end, after an extension, on 11-5-2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u123	Has the warranty of the new contractor come?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u124	No, the warranty of the new contractor hasn't come, if I remember. He hasn't come. You forgot about the airport of Paros, another monument to airport history, the world, a project where you only auctioned the airway, no building, no road, nothing. Wonderful work. The runway's over, but it can't work. There's no building. He wanted a lot of brains! 60% of the project is completed. This project is unique. You have also forgotten about the pierced road network, you have forgotten about the unexistently flooding projects, and especially you have forgotten the hundreds of thousands of unemployed in the technical world and our state-of-the-art youth. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have handed over works that have been drugged and undernourished with chronic problems, with anti-development and anti-social policy. The intention and planning of the government is to solve the problems you have created, to renegotiate the contracts you have signed for the benefit of society, to plan and implement useful projects for the Greek people and not mature projects for certain interests. What happens - why do you ask - if the concessionaires do not agree? It is obvious that from the question alone you continue to see the works themselves, as an exercise, cut off from the country, society, citizens, its problems. Technocraticism, Mr Aygeakis, is useful in serving politically credible, not to impose unaltered policies. You should understand that at some point. This is one of our main differences. For we are not giving tests to the concessionaires, to the foreign banks, to the Greek banks, to the Greek people. Where have you seen such projects repay bank loans in ten years? You who have a lot of friends in the banking system, ask them to see. Where have you seen this before?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u125	Who are they? Who do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u126	Who do we have?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u127	At the Civil Aviation Service, you asked about security issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u128	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Ignace, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u130	He mentioned himself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u131	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u132	Tell us names!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u133	No, I didn't say personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u134	Tell us the names!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u135	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u136	I didn't say personally. I said as space.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u137	Say names, even one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u138	Immediately after you get the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u139	At the service...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u140	I don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u141	There's been a violation of everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u142	We're not a little embarrassed! Instead of rebuking the minister, you're making me! Let's get him...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u143	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u144	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u145	What is this, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u146	The Civil Aviation Service...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u147	To pick up the minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u148	You don't have the floor! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u149	If I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u150	Sit down, please. You'll get the floor right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u151	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u152	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u153	The Civil Aviation Service...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u154	Minister, just a minute. You don't have the floor. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u155	Tell us names, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u156	At the Civil Aviation Service in this short period, we have done the following: First, the tender for air traffic controllers had been stopped and started with the withdrawal of the previous decision that had been stopped - to be informed - and continues properly. Thirty-two auditors will be hired and not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u157	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u158	I have Members' questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u159	Please complete. You've spoken too long.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u160	If you cut the irony, you'll get time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u161	Just a minute, Minister. Don't go on, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u162	Ironically cut!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, I'm not being sarcastic. For Christ's sake! You've known me for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u164	I've known you very well since you were in PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u165	Yes, I was. Wrong. I'm doing my self-criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u166	Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u167	Secondly, we have found EUR 8 million for the modernisation of telecommunications systems, EUR 1 million for works at airports and, of course, the redundant employees of the OSH and the other operators, who will be placed in critical positions, are re-entered. You asked what we're going to do at institutional level. We're preparing two draft laws. One will come very soon and is linked to the institutional upswing of the technical world and of public works. It will provide for an electronic system for the supervision of public works throughout the country, a new system of tariffs and budgets. In other words, the thirteen ways in which the budget is also distorted will be abolished. They'll be real. There will be new registers with real limits rather than bureaucratic as well as real data, registries for all project rates and common standards for public and private projects. There will also be control over large discounts and not the one that has brought the technical world to a dead end. Furthermore, there will be dispersion rather than accumulation of projects, projects contributing to productive reconstruction, projects useful and not mature, as well as a monitoring system for all public and private projects. Finally, there will be actions for extroversion and productive reconstruction. Mr. Panagiotopoulos, you asked about rail projects in northern Greece. The previous government has not predicted anything, not you personally. For the axis Thessaloniki - Alexandroupolis, no study has been included. Now we are discussing the Minister's new development. Mr. Consolas and Mr. Besiropoulos accused me of not meeting with them. Until I swore I didn't meet anyone. And I did not meet anyone, because you yourself accused and found Mrs Christodoulopoulos who had not been sworn and came to Parliament and held meetings as Minister. Are you going to tell us sometime what you'd like to do for the two months we didn't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u168	We wanted a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u169	Come on. Open is my door. From morning to night I'm there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u170	Continue, Minister, and please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u171	You asked me why Mr. Kookis hadn't informed me. I've been briefed by Mr. Kookis. A meeting was held with Mr. Koukis, my fellow civil engineer, the Ministry's servants, and there very many things were revealed, such as the fact that they forgot to give money to the airport projects and also the involvement that had been unresolved for years at Macedonia's airport. I'm sorry we didn't meet, but the priority really is to collect the chaos we found in public services and projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u172	Minister, you will be able to speak again, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u173	If I have the opportunity to speak again, to stop. Just say two things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u174	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u175	So I conclude with the questions, which are two pages. In my dentistry, I'm going to talk about the NSRF. Mr. Javarra, because you made special reference to the Patras Tower project, which is your homeland. No revocation took place, no cancellation with specific reasoning. I told you last time in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u176	Say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u177	Thinking is very simple. A competition won't come out. I'm telling you, and you're refreshing this for the area. It stimulates the area. It's transparent, it's your logic. In other words, in the logic of increasing competition. Secondly, you said that 400 million have gone elsewhere. They haven't been anywhere else. We told you last time that what you used to do is thus pull out a number, without having joined the works either in the NSRF or in the ETUC, and God has it. I'll tell you later on about the list of projects that you promised and you've put on the design, to see how "good" programming and design you've done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u178	Please tell the dentist, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u179	I shall conclude, Mr President. The project will be done, because it is our commitment. Access to the use of a road network, Mr Javarra, European standards have been transformed from the right of the citizen to be guaranteed by the state, at a rate of equilibrium of private profit, but not controlled under the conditions controlled by a public service. That's what you've done. Controlled by the independent engineer. He puts tolls automatically with a type provided for in the contracts. He has undertaken to provide the citizen with this public good, in the public service's place, without control. Then, because you have had a lot of questions about the NRP and the answers, I will also answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Everyone has exceeded their time. It is true that the Minister has exceeded him a little bit. But everyone spoke with the comfort they wanted. There was no interruption, just a reminder at intervals. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the honourable Members and after Mr Javarras spoke, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-six students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd Elementary School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Javarras, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. I note first of all how important the omission of the President of the Parliament, who has not taken care of what he has done here with the representatives of the people, that is to say every time the scripture and the Rule of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of which the debate is conducted and held every time in this Chamber, is that he has not done so to the ministers, and indeed to the outside-parliamentary ministers. Because, Minister, I was going to speak to you with more respect and more rigour. But your behavior is releasing me. And I want you to keep an eye on me. First of all, you have done very badly, for the first time, in a parliamentary control procedure, against the National Representation, you have not had proper respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u182	Not for the first time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u183	Dignity has never reduced the prestige of any government executive. But you chose another way. And this road, of course, creates injuries to democracy, because this is where you ought to know that it is carried out symbolically and indeed popular sovereignty. If you really believe this democracy, you should have displayed your respect and not in the way you appeared here, you are ironic, you are referring to living people as long-hacked, because they are supposedly part of another government, obsolete, but which had the popular mandate. More importantly, you have not appeared here because you are asking, but because you are asking yourself and there is a great difference between these two verbs. That is why I would ask the President of this House to help you inspire it. In my question, therefore, and other colleagues, you were in love with me and you answered. But today, you are questionable and the ranking of the intensity of control is clear and you were required to know it. So you're wrong to come here before the National Representation and instead of answering questions. Obviously because you have not realized your position or because of your character or education or - if you like - and your ideology have become addicted to such behaviours. Here, then, we New Democracy MPs - and I have the right, as elected, to strike my hand on the bench, you have not heard that we have one single confidence: we believe that the public interest in this country is guaranteed by the democratic institutions, the democratic parliamentary institutions, who - believe it - operate and insist on operating, even if you have not fully understood it, regardless of the succession of the parties, which the people choose to govern each time. So today you have abused the right that this democracy offers you, address elected representatives of the Greek people and treat them in this way. I'm personally disgusting you. And I think none of your colleagues should be proud of your behaviour. But I'm restraining myself to come to the object. Who are you, Minister, who have arrested and steadfastly here toward you all the governments that have ruled this place? Who are you? You don't have a story? Aren't you the ones who were elected president of the Technical Chamber of Greece with PASOK's resignation? Aren't you the one who served in PASOK as head of funding - I learn from here - of diligence - I learn from there - of the people who supported PASOK in the context of the self-government elections? Suddenly, then, in your mind, by virginity, did all this richness of disparity appear against governments and MPs? What's the matter? Instead of answering today, you are inaugurating a very bad road. And I advise you personally to leave him as early as he is, because soon the reality will be very hard for you. And what I also want to tell you is, if ever given time, read this beautiful book that Caffka has written about a commercial representative who was desperately attempting to survive when he was transformed into a cockroach. It'll be very good for you. But I still insist on telling you that you did not answer the questions. You did not answer the question. And you have a duty to answer. You do not control MPs. The MPs control you. And the fact that you answer questions with questions means inability to answer them. It means trying to hide things from the National Representation, which you know and, unfortunately, you do not want to say with a sense of respect and, above all, using the appropriate measure of speech. I would like, therefore, since time has flown - not by my own fault - to make these reports, but because of you - to tell you something. The way you canceled the motorway, the auctioned work, the highway competition from Patras to the Tower, above all shows - I said it beforehand, addressing Mr Stathakis - a fat indifference about what is happening in society. And above all, it proves how hypocritical your Government's attitude is when you allegedly invoke the humanitarian crisis caused by the Memorandum. Here, in this region, there has been a humanitarian crisis for thirty years. Two and three villages of a thousand inhabitants have been destroyed by this carnival. And you, here today, claiming that you were supposed to be on a road with a length of seventy-five kilometers, will help to improve the functioning of free competition, because we are telling you "here, gentlemen, you, the first time, the left rulers, at least to implement your physics, the one that you have always unraveled us, repeating that you have the privilege of social sensitivity. Isn't that a thrill to you? Does it not excite you that on this road every fifty meters there is a cross? It doesn't excite you. What moved you, though, is to come here to convince us that you supposedly fight national contractors with the sword that the victory of January 25 gives you. And you're not telling me, Minister, as President of the Technical Chamber, what fight have you done to fight all this stink in the field of projects? Do you think the presenters of Jerusalem don't know the story of anyone and anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u184	That's what I'm saying, don't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u185	I'll tell you one more thing. So since your intention was in this work that you canceled, to apply what you told us today - I accept it - can you tell me why you did not write it in the decision? Can you tell me why in the decision you canceled this project nowhere do you mention what constitutes your true will? You have had the opportunity - and I will tell you, you will also be told by your lawyers - if you really were to cancel, on the basis of Article 27(2), this decision to have invoked insufficient competition, an inadequate competition with the arguments you have told us. But you haven't done that. So, we're not entitled to believe you're not telling the truth? As you do not tell the entire Greek people, about the negotiations and what you have in mind to do for all of Greece, the very same hideout you are on these specific issues, which you should know are much more concerned with than you believe in local societies and especially the economy. You will be told by your attendant Mr. Stathakis that when Keynes made his great theory for the economy to get ahead of the '29 crisis, what he invented - and this is the great revolution - it was to put the public in front of building works and in this way "think" the active demand, so that we have this exit from the crisis we had in the '30s. And I remember many of my fellow Members here who were - and they were right - the previous government, because they were always deducting costs from the Public Investment Programme. Of course, I agree, he was wrong to remove them. However, it had to face a greater value and important task for it and it did so. You today are the 'first time left', so why don't you take advantage of this possibility that we have given you in the auction of this project, which you must know - has been executed, let it be completed and there have the pleasure of doing business, working people, rolling money, recycled and mobilised and the real economy of the country? But you don't care about that. Unfortunately, you are interested in creating new fireplaces in the construction sector and in the supply sector. I have not seen to this day, although, for the last four months, you have reiterated what flaws there have been in these conventions, what illegality - if you convince me, I will accept it - have been, have you started procedures? I didn't see any of the people you're accusing of controlling them with the means the state has. By coming here and this attitude today to give up everyone, as if you are the emissary of the Most High on Earth to make cleansing on all the dirt that exists, this cannot be tolerated by any reasonable mind, I believe in depth neither do you. However, because you have the opportunity of exchanging precisely the great lightness with which you are dealing with your contact with Parliament, I will only tell you one. This is the road and all other projects you have a priority to go forward and implement. Otherwise you will be exposed to everyone and not just to this House, which until now honors you with its trust. This is also a lesson to be taught by the President of Parliament that you are a minister, because this House has trusted you. So do your duty and leave everything else. Everything else is from the wicked! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u186	Thank you. Before we move on, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-four students and students and four educational sessions from the 2nd Mournia School of Chania. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-two students and students from Spring Arbor University. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] All the honourable Members will now take the floor, Mr Aygeakis, for a second reading. The starting point is five minutes, Mr. Augenakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u187	Look, I was aiming to deal more with the substance and less with all this. I was expecting it, but at some point I said it wouldn't happen. They finally happened and were said and tabled on the part of Mr Spirtzi. Mr. Stathakis, I'm starting with Mr. Spirtzi, although Deputy, not because he has a bigger stature. If you do not withdraw today, Mr Spirtzi, what you have said, even if you do not say names, why you have referred to me personally and said about relations between Ausgarian and bankers and others, then you are confirming the reputation of the landlord and the muleologist you had years in the Technical Chamber! You offend the technicians industry, offend the engineers who have trusted you for years and it is a pity! So I expect you to say names in your dentistry. Otherwise, let me tell you, Mr Stathakis, but you have another teaching obligation: Learn ways to your Deputy because he is confused. You're a non-parliamentary, Mr. Spirtzi. Understood? You don't do cheap syndication, like you did for a long period of time at the Technical Chamber. You may have a mentor on Velouchiot, but that doesn't mean you can insult and underestimate hereditaries, members of the National Representation. You are asking yourself, and you are obliged to answer or not to answer, but not to be ironic, not to insult or to muddle. I look forward to your answer with perseverance. Otherwise, I will use my tritology, Mr President, then. Mr. Spirtzi, you've spoken of everything you described with dates, evidence. But were you not a close partner, both from your institutional role, but also from your origin policy with Mr Chrysochide? We have not forgotten your relationships, your contacts or the close cooperation you have had in previous years. Even the parliamentary elections, Mr. Spirtzi. Of course, in your attempt to prove that you are more SYRIZA than SYRIZA today, you exaggerate. But we do not forget, we remember. We remember, for example, that in 2010 as a genuine Papandreal, you were in the Committee on Selecting Self-government. In 2009, as well, you were a genuine Papandreal in choosing the PASOK ballots. Nowadays, you come here to prove you're more pink than the pink! Kalma, kindness, good behavior and mainly cooperation. This is what we have sought with today's question as a Dedicated Opposition. After all, Mr Stathakis, and at the private meeting we have said and wherever we need to say this now, despite Mr Spirtzi's challenges, that we will do so, because we are not interested in taking lessons of conduct and morality. It should have been many years ago, Mr Spirtzi, and you probably did not succeed, but we are interested in being useful for the good of the country. And dear Mr. Deputy, when we say "friends of the country", you finally learn to read. We mean friends - as we say in our question - and not friends, our friends. Friends of the country. For God's sake! Please find out at last, Mr Stathakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u188	Read, sir, read.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u189	As far as Kastelli Airport is concerned, you said about drug-drug-drug projects. Very good. But you know what? You stayed in the protology thirty-five minutes in descriptions, references, mainly signatures. That's right. Use all this. Because you are not in the role of detectives, but you are in the role of Minister and you have to produce work, we want - and we will wait patiently in the seconds to listen - your timetable. What is, anyway, your aim, your obligations, your commitments to the National Representation and to those who are watching us? Because that's why we invited you today. It wasn't even to ruin your three-day day or because of course we had something else to do. I'm going into Mr. Stathakis now. Dear Minister, with the courtesy that he sees you, you have asked to tell you a project that has stopped. When you get down to Chania - and from what I have learned you will be off on an exceptional occasion today - tomorrow - I ask you, once you leave the plane, to see right and left of the main hall. You will see a building built as well as another building built, which is the extension of the building of the existing "DASKALGIANNIS" airport in Chania. Of course, since you said before, "Tell me a case where the construction site is going down, it stops" - of course there are problems, because there are delays - I tell you that it is the airport "DASKALGIANNIS". The contractor is currently receiving more than EUR 6 million, and as he has already announced - you read the local press, I imagine, we read it - he will stop the work of the airport, because 6 million are too much, so that the hump of a manufacturer can pick it up. Because you said quite rightly that you wouldn't plan, if you were the ones you were planning, all the highways, I'd like to hear what the model you'd design would be, taking into account the data of that period. There's probably something useful, because that's why we're fighting here, that's what we could use, the elements, the model, the thoughts, the points, that is, if! - offer even a little bit of attention to the northern road axis. What am I telling you now? Well, listen to something that doesn't honor any of us in here. I'm saying that in advance. We have a northern road axis in Crete, just three hundred miles, eighty-six kilometers of which are built, that is 29%. Under construction parts are just twenty-four kilometers, that is 8%. Thirty-and-a-half kilometers is the average curiosity of study, i.e. 11%. The study section is ninety-two kilometers, i.e. 31%, and 22%, i.e. sixty-five kilometers, nothing has happened at all. I therefore ask you - and I say this with great interest and much love, and you know I care about this northern road, Mr Stathakis - to deal first with this issue and tell us which model you imagine we can use in this big issue called the 'Northern Road' in what way and especially in what timetable. Because a point that we could use and which you kicked is the Juncker package. You kicked it, Mr. Stathakis. You kicked it so stubbornly and, in fact, with a lot of comfort and presented it to us just before "nothing happened, you guys! All right.’ We asked back for the list. Forty and a half billion were the proposed projects that we have tabled, which we will bring back - we are now considering - in due course. That's right! Mr Stathakis, do you know or not that today from the Juncker package 600 million euros have been given proposals for infrastructure and innovation, not for Greece, of course, but for other states that have proposals? Because here at the 'SYRIZA' rate, which we are working on, they will come after the completion of the Yunker package. That's why, please, it's over! The time periods ‘SYRIZA’ have nothing to do with the time periods of other services, bodies, authorities, etc. You have rightly referred to the institutional framework for the project. We agree on that. You will find us together and in consultation, because there is a need to improve the institutional framework, both in private and in public works. That's true! Time gives a lot of lessons to all of us. Because none of us - at least neither the honourable Member nor the honourable Members of Parliament - has anything to do with what has implied your Vice-President's dark, dreadful and terrible mind, Mr Stathakis, are calling for a clear debate, an initiative of your own - from you must be launched - in order to improve the institutional framework. There is a need for improvement. Many projects have stumbled, many projects have been planted, because the framework itself, unfortunately, makes the engineer 80% lawyer and 20% engineer. Mr Spirtzi, for the five motorways you said with an excess irony that 'the four of them came here, the fifth where was it,' referring to 'Moreas'. But you're so read! Didn't your partners tell you what's going on with Morea? They didn't tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u190	You tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u191	I'll tell you, of course. I therefore tell you that on 27 October 2014, the European Commission adopted a decision approving State aid in the draft ‘Amendment of the concession’ agreement. The draft ‘Amendment to the concession agreement’ has been submitted to the Court of Auditors for scrutiny and the adoption of their act is pending. It is noted that the Court of Auditors has requested some additional information, which has been provided by the public authorities and is therefore expected to be adopted. Following the adoption by the Court of Auditors, the agreement amending the concession agreement should be introduced by the Government of the Parliament in order to vote and ratify it by law. These are points to me unanswered. We are now going to some issues that have to do with Crete in themselves. For air traffic controllers, despite your pleasant laughter, Mr. Spirtzi, you did not convince us. It has not been answered and I will not go into details, because there are national reasons why we should not say too much, some times, and we need to know how to keep our mouths shut. You didn't answer. What did you do? Why did you cancel the contest?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u192	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u193	For air traffic controllers. Why have you canceled the contest and who are those who will fill the gaps, which are there and are necessary? I will not invoke announcements, statements, questions, Members of the SYRIZA during the previous period. It goes without saying that we all agree on some things, regardless of whether we are in the Opposition or in the government. Air traffic controllers are doing a very important job, for many reasons and we understand them. You abolished the competition, which was in its final phase, for thirty-one auditor - twenty-eight said - and today we expect you to tell us how these gaps will be covered. Because there are those gaps. And this is not what alpha or beta tells you, the partners themselves are telling you - and in the previous period of Pasokakian period and in the current government of SYRIZA - that many of them have supported and supported your party and are anguishly transferring to you the problems they face today. Dear Mr. Spirtzi, you have rushed into the Committee on Production and Trade a great lie days ago. And this is about the street of Heraklion - Mesara. Here, then, seems your inability. When I asked you what the truth is, and if there is a timeline, avoid answering and please look back to the Minutes. I'm telling your partners. I imagine they'll find them a lot easier, because you don't know about procedures, third time you go in here. You said'very quickly and without delay'. Well, he's stalling because of you. And it is delayed because of you because there is a request to check the complaints of one contractor who has received the work Exanti-Palormos, Rethymnon and the other contractor who has received the work Heraklion - Messara. There are complaints, exact or inaccurate, you need to check it out and you need to take initiatives. Do not consider with a glance uncomfortable events evolving around you. I say this especially for the Heraklion - Mesara road dam, because this project is from the NSRF, which means everything it manages to draw until the end of 2015 and then go for national resources. And where is he? And when I asked you with perseverance, assisted by the chairman of the committee then, you avoided it diligently, saying, "There is no way, the money will be found. I love Crete too." How do you love Crete? Is that how you love her? Over a month is the complaint and one of your partners, one of your legal counsellors, someone, to deal with, to say whether this complaint is really inaccurate, to go to the next shareholder. Is this a real complaint? Take the initiative. This is what previous ministers from you and especially one, to whom you had the courage to mention with great irony, George Souflias. If a period of projects came in before Greece, if a period of works was launched - and some, indeed, started wrong, but entered ahead - it was the Soflia period. And at that time it was that street of Heraklion - Mesara started. Today, then, just to be informed, the front page of the newspapers conveys anxiety and anxiety about this work. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. I imagine you'll ask to be informed, because it's your obligation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Eleftherios Agygeakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I come to another project too. Sitia Airport. You forgot to mention that we have three airports in Crete, Mr Stathakis. Three airports, not two. For Kazadzakis airport you have not said a word. Sitia, too, chat. Days ago, we visited the airport with Giannis Placiotakis, Secretary of the Parliamentary Group and MP Lassithi. You know a 25 million-dollar project has been completed. It's everything in perfection. Did you go to see it? Have you been? You're ministers. You're four months old. Did you? Don't laugh! Did you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u194	At the inauguration?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u195	When are you going? At the inauguration? So because you haven't been there, not only in a lot of other works on the ground, you haven't pressed your foot, even though you are competent ministers, I tell you that the project is all set and that there are 30-40 thousand missing for chairs and some electronics to get into operation. On the other hand, of course, there is a balance of account to the contractor, about 500 thousand. Please also for the third airport of Crete, take an initiative and tell us what you're going to do. Don't tell us it's bad, wrong, etc. What do we care about? That's why you're here. Now for the airport 'KAZADZAKIS'. Mr Stathakis, we had said a few days ago to the Ministry that there is a proposal, which has already been tabled for over a year and a half, from the Taxless Shops, that they should undertake the study and expansion of the building. To take on board, in other words, to extend the airport so that it can operate with fewer problems than it is facing and facing today. Let me note that KAZADZAKIS Airport is the second largest airport on visits to Greece. Idealism during the previous period, even until yesterday, your Hercules colleagues prevented them from seeing a proposal and judging it on a pure and legal basis - and you did well to say so the other day - to assess it and see whether or not we can accept it. But, from the outset, I would reject anything at a time when the Greek State is unable to support such an initiative, I think it is wrong. And at the same time it's not worth it. I mean, I see it as a small one on your part, for whatever happens at regional airports, throw it on Mr. Cookie. Don't laugh. It is not allowed, and I would ask you to stop this procedure very much, because you are insulting the place and you are insulting Members. Mr. Kookis was a commander and resigned days ago. From now on, when the new commander, who has proposed - and I hope he will do well, I hope he will do excellently for the good of Greece - will not have you to invoke "h" Kouki, the new Kouki. I'm telling you, what are you gonna do? So let's go to this. Not one euro has been granted since the beginning of the year to the regional airports, most of them, either in Alexandroupolis or in Kavala.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u196	You must be done, Mr. Ausgeakis. You've taken three times a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u197	I'm just finishing up and thank you very much. After all, you have done the same to previous speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u198	You've taken three times, too, but you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u199	That is why, Mr President-in-Office, we are calling for a spirit of cooperation and understanding. Mr Spirtzis' inappropriate behaviour and attitude, let us assume that it has not been done, as an unborn child. Not because we want to be loved abruptly, no. But because we want to work together. And if something here judges us and if we are judged by some, we will be judged by the result rather than by the fine words, or by the lukewarm or cruel or terrible and terrible confrontation we may have in this Chamber. We're judging by the result. Mr. Spirtzi, one more observation. I don't think we should get to the point that we're sending out-of-court reports to Ice Arena or anywhere else to meet a minister. I am referring to the meeting that the workers in the PSC have been asking for days and have not been able to find themselves in your office. And by chance they managed to find themselves on a TV channel today. What can I say? Mr Stathakis, do you approve of this, namely that the Minister does not meet with representatives of a sector of workers at either reasonable or unreasonable request - I do not consider it - but does he, by magic, manage a channel to coordinate the time of the two and that both of them are in the air and that they are at the end and, of course, to thank each other for the channel he has managed to coordinate them? You, as Minister, and the government what are you doing, really? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u200	Thank you. Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor for three minutes. Dentality lasts three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I would like to make an intervention after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u202	Would you like to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u204	Minister, you will also allow me, as experience is more fresh, a comment on your Deputy Minister, who will have to be taught, if anything, from your coolness and your smile. Mr Spirtzi, if you came here today by breaking the isolation of your office to address us with this style and these suggestions in the name of an enlightened people's democracy of the first time left, you, the government appointed, to me, the elected by the people, would be better, you know, to go back to your office and remain inaccessible. Cheap political pimps despite anguish - I understand it too - to show new party loyalty not here, not to us. To get to know, that is to say, as we once met in another political life, as questions to the respondent or as answers to the questioner, not in other rooms, but in the Greek Parliament, in this Chamber. We can't accept it, I'm so sorry. Inadmissible! From there, of course, as far as bank friends are concerned and so on, I would like to hear what you mean, so that we can get together again. Because this thing is being done in the air because we are the chosen ones of the people's will - not us, the appointed one - to me, the elected one elected by the people, but the enemy of the people, in your distorted logic, cannot accept it. On the basis of the fact that we criticised you it was much less - I would say - strong and critical of the style that has occasionally deteriorated when we were in the governmental thugs and others were in the opposition position. We did not say that public works contracts are without problems, without any illnesses that come from the past, that they are done without delay. But we said that either way, at the moment, the feeling is that the works are stuck and that where there was a rhythm, even slow, there is no rhythm at all. I move on to the Thessaloniki metro, for which I have had the duty - if you like - to place myself a little more specifically. Minister, I'm coming back to you. You talked about destructive style. I ask you: is it destructive in style and the written communication of the consortium that the excavation work is completely and definitively interrupted? It's a fact, it's not a disaster. I mean, what do I have to understand when the consortium says that it is interrupting and dismissing the workers? Do I have to understand that the project is progressing smoothly and unintentionally? That's why we've been waiting for your location. No, to tell us that the project had no problems. He did. And technical problems he had. It is a difficult task technically to implement the metro of Thessaloniki. And in the construction of the tunnels and in the opening we had many problems in the archaeological excavations we may have the biggest problems, since all the subterranean city has ancient and somehow safeguards should be made, but also in expropriations we have many problems and legal issues. But here we have a job cut. And what we're telling you, what we advise you to do is take some intervention. It must be done by you as an expedited body in order to rejoin the negotiating table by the Attica Metro and the Consortium. Because if they go to court, then the work I very much fear will not be completed in 2030. As far as ports and their link to the rail network are concerned, we have put here - I would say - with a very constructive attitude to the debate, the combined development perspective, as well as examples. And for the work of connecting the commercial port of Kavala to the main axis of the railway route in northern Greece, what I told you is that it is in the third phase of the study - so in the phase where the complete study maturation is achieved - and that you need to see what will be done with the pending proposal for funding in the operational programme of the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace and for 2014 to 2020. There is therefore one step forward, but we want to see what is going to happen with the next phase and, in any case, we have not invoked any party text, which is partisanly charged. We have called on SATE, the Association of Workshops, to discuss the dismantling of public works throughout the country. And these representatives are not the few of the great-workers' choices. Nine joint ventures are their members. You should know, Mr. Deputy, that you served as president of the TEI at other times. Finally, a very brief comment on another point, which, of course, relates to the public works and the responsibilities of your Ministry, the compensation or rather the inability to pay fines in cases of expropriation. I have an example here in the case of outstanding compensation for the Egnatia Road expropriations in northern Greece. On 19-12-2014, a decision of the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on payment of 23 million from an authorised EUR 34 million credit for compensations charged. On December 24th, the amount is credited to the Bank of Greece and on December 29th is ordered for non-disbursement, the bank does not pay. These are fined allowances in the event of expropriation. The country's roaming of the liquidity crisis has already begun, and we have already entered a pre-election period. There have been many similar cases in Greece but notice the subject. We're in 2015. Egnatia has been completed as a project in 2008 and the expropriation process was launched in 2001. The law says, Minister, that it cannot be understood that ownership is being removed unless full compensation is paid to the beneficiaries. I know you've seen cases like this at your Ministry. I see here and Mr Yoyakas who has dealt with a similar case in Thesprotia. There are such loose ends. You must implement these disbursements, however difficult the country's finances may be, because at the moment there is a legal loose end. And if you tell me that this has been speeded up in the case of Egnatia on the eve of elections, I will remind you that it was before the final vote on the Presidency of the Republic - something which was on the air, but we have not yet announced a pre-election period. However, I will tell you that there has been a ministerial decision to disburse, which has been stuck in the difficulties of the Bank of Greece. And because these people are now rightly waiting for their compensation in court for many years, I think you should see it as a whole. To close - and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - we have not come to tell you either ironically or insultingly or in any other way that you do not do your job. We're here to urge you to do your job. We're just telling you it's lost ground and you have to run. Large projects are related to the construction industry and the construction industry is related to the private economy despite hugging with the state. And since you are not - fortunately for me, Mr Minister - among those who treat contractors and contractors in terms of ideological obsession, the 'people of the people', the 'public wealth miners', etc., I think it is a good thing to have a critical attitude to the review of contracts, but it is wrong to postpone the matter on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u205	You're done, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u206	That's what we all say. So make interventions, run your retreats, and you will see - and I shall end, Mr President - that you can find allies in areas of counter-population from which the previous governments could not even think that they would find allies. All you have to do is run your own project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u207	Thank you. Before giving the floor to the next honourable Member, Mr Skreka, the Minister, Mr Stathakis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u208	I still insist and call on the New Democracy to bring a project, which has stopped and not'stop' by a communication, not 'will cause problems' but a project that has stopped due to financing problems in the current period. Chania Airport, mentioned by Mr. Aeggeakis, is another example, where there is a delay in payment but which the project has not stopped. And if we want to get into the details of the project, we will see that the delays caused during the first period of implementation of the project have nothing to do with the payment by the State. They had to do with the way in which the project was executed and the successive changes in the contract recipient’s contract with the contractors he had hired in the first period. So the idea that he has been delayed - he referred to the figures, I think, and the Deputy Minister - is due to the project implementation process and not to the funding, in which - I repeat - there is a delay in the last two months and we all hope that this will be saved soon. The same applies to the communications you have presented. The announcements of public works contractors, the announcements of their trade union organizations are true and I have received these announcements. Are we going to policy on these communications, or are we going to see the data a little more stringent and concrete? We are therefore waiting for and I insist that we cannot - and you cannot do - make a policy - with these trade unions' announcements - fully respected, but who perhaps have an excessive attitude of opposition to the government, but that is not the criterion for this behaviour. The same applies to our meetings and not to trade unions. I imagine that both Mr Spirtz and I have received various meetings with the trade unions. It seems too pro-working lately that the New Democracy in this particular matter relied upon our Government that we do not see the workers and that we only meet them on the channels and so on. I think the meetings are being held - and they have been - with all the trade unions. Of course, I would add that the meetings are at our discretion. We believe that appointments and meetings should take place at the right time and have the right theme. I close with the issue of the northern road axis of Crete. I am really surprised that Mr Augarians claims that the government is not making use of the accumulated supply of works or the preparation of works. And on this subject he mentioned the northern road axis of Crete. I would like to remind you that there is absolutely no study on the northern road axis of Crete. I repeat that there is absolutely no study or premeditation, which is essentially the project itself. There's not even a master plan, that is. The northern road axis of Crete is a road axis on which - I stress this - the works mentioned by Mr.Aegeans and parts of this road have been built or constructed. Therefore, although it is a first priority and a commitment that this project must be launched, there was no preparation that could be included in any of the financial instruments available. The announcements made by the previous government on the northern road axis of Crete, after the data I have just given you - and I imagine - were words in the air that had absolutely no content. This content is committed to giving it up in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Screkas has the floor from the honourable Members for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, it is extremely sad and sad to see an Deputy Minister for Infrastructure coming today, asking to answer a question from honourable Members who are struggling for the progress of the projects and who are struggling for the development of these important construction infrastructure projects that will give a solution to the local communities that will provide jobs but also help in the development of the country. We see that instead of coming and answering the specific questions raised by Mr Deputy Minister, he came and tried to justify the inadequacy and inaction of at least so far by saying half the truths - and knowing very well that half the truths are worse than lies - and in many cases by saying inaccurate and false. I am telling you one example: he mentioned some statistics for 2013 on how the country and the economy went in the period 2012-2014, i.e. the period of governance of the previous government, the New Democracy. He left the Chamber, of course. But I would like to ask him, Mr President: why did he stop on the website of the Greek Static Service which says in 2013, saying half the truths and did not go on in 2014? Because it is true that when we took over this country in 2012, Mr President, the economy had a recession of 7%. The country crippled with 7% recession. In fact, direct investment declined at a rate of 28.7%. Indeed, consumer spending was falling and exports decreased. In 2013, we had a recession again, reduced, of course. But the Deputy Minister, Mr. Spirtzis, forgot to say that in 2014 the country went to recovery with 0.8% growth. He said unemployment was 28% in 2013. That's true. We have so inherited unemployment. In 2012, unemployment increased at a rate of 1% a month. In a year, four hundred thousand Greeks lost their jobs. In 2014, Mr. Spirtzis forgot to say that - unemployment from 28% was reduced to 26%. So we may have had a million two thousand unemployed, Mr President, but they were a hundred fifty-two thousand less than 2013. And if we had not gone to elections, which were blackmailingly imposed on SYRIZA by not consenting to the face of the President of the Republic, we would have even less unemployed in 2015, as the European Commission anticipated it, but also many international organisations. We would have had a 2.9% growth in 2015 and 3.6% in 2016. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And what do we have now? We now have a recession, Minister of Economy, responsible for development. So Mr. Spirtz said half the truths that were worse than lies. The truth is, the situation was difficult, but it went better. It had stabilised in 2014 and there was an improvement, particularly that was seen by the people of the market - not that it was a paradise - which has now been interrupted. We don't want to destroy, Minister. Warning we do, with respect for your role and your great responsibility. But you cannot come here, Minister, to listen to false and inaccurate accusations. Your Deputy Minister, who accused the present Parliamentary Representatives, has been President of the TEE for years, supported by the PASKE, the trade union party of PASOK, who ruled from 1981 and after 80% of the time until 2010. New Democracy ruled 20%, 30% of this year. Mr. Spirjis grew up, groomed, matured politically in PASOK, and now he apologized for being a member. And what did he do as President of the TEI so that the country does not experience what it is today, in the state of public works, the mistakes that we did not have to correct? What did he do? Did he quit? No, of course not. That chair was sweet! It was sweet the conciliation he had with the PASOK Ministers, friends, and later the next governments. What did he do? And he's coming out of our left to justify what? To justify switching from PASOK to SYRIZA, as dozens of your MPs and ministers have done? Is that the new one? Are you the new one? Not you personally. You know how much I appreciate you. You came and answered with a clear reason. I respect you, and at the end I will propose to you. But what do they want to say to most of the people who have come here from the old PASOK? Because they downloaded the PASOK sign and uploaded the SYRIZA sign, like Mr. Spirtzis, became the new one, is the new one, and we're the old one? If it has a responsibility for what is happening today in the country in terms of public works, it is the chairman of the Technical Chamber of the country. We were not even MPs three years ago. Most of us were in the private sector, in our jobs. He was a trade unionist a lifetime and he comes and blames us for what we decided to change, lying? What did he say about E65? That there's a bridge in the desert? Ensured work, financed, in construction at the moment, the timetable was set to end in 2015, at the moment it has not been stopped but its activity has been reduced to 1/10, Minister. And what do we have to wait for? Do we have to wait until we stop and come and tell you "do your job"? The southern part you know, and if you don't know it, the Deputy Minister must inform you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Screka, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u212	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's serious what we're talking about here. They can't sound lying and tolerate them, by people who shouldn't say anything, should they not speak, have licked! It is pathetic what we have lived here today, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u213	I think you should be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u214	The southern part of Lamia - Xyniada, which joins the line with Athens and Lamia, is integrated into the eighteen programmes approved by the European Commission in December 2014. Its financing is secured. Why don't the Minister start it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Screka, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u216	Why isn't this part funded? Why does it not join the new ESDP, in the April review, the northern part, since it is ready, is it mature and there are environmental studies to complete? That's what we want you to answer. Will you do that? We don't want to lie. We don't want a supposed attempt to rinse the clean environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Screka, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u218	I'm sorry, Mr. President, please. Everyone spoke ten minutes. Please, just a minute. And if you eventually want to help with transparency, go ahead with the electronic tendering system for public works and the competitions that we have started. You took it back a year, because it's supposedly not possible for the services to implement it. All of these you know and friendly advice is that these are the pretexts of your own "fathers" who tell you not to come in, because of course they will bring a change in what's been going on in the country for all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u219	It's been a minute, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u220	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as E65 is concerned, will you continue to finance it? With regard to the southern part of Lamia - Xenia, which is part of the new ETUC, approved work by the European Union, will you begin? The northern part you'll be joining? To tell truths, not lies. Why do you know what you reminded me here? What the wise people say "the thief cried out to get rid of the housekeeper". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixteen students and students and two teachers attending from the Elementary School of Krestis Elias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The next of the questioners is Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, MP of Achaias. His predicted period of dentology is three minutes. Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u222	Minister, unfortunately the children who go back to Crestena will go from an old, difficult road, very dangerous, while the new one has been cancelled. You canceled him and said today that he would be reclaimed. Just before you told us there was no money. Suddenly the money was found, it'll just be given to more pieces. So what we were interested in was how many pieces the road would be. Minister, we must distinguish between two things: moral and real. What we have seen here is an effort on your part to convince us that you represent morals and all others are a little - very serviceable interests, as you have said. 'I do not give tests - you say - to contractors and banks like others'. But you don't tell us who else. It's a technique that has been used before. I just don't know how many years SYRIZA make you moral, one, two, three, five? How long does it take to get a certificate of morality from SYRIZA? It's important. We've got to get this over with. It's a dangerous game. You have to understand that what we all care about here is the projects to end and be delivered to the citizens. You have to tell us when. That's what we asked you, Minister. What you did is a backup. You were trying to convince us that you would bring in a new system that would otherwise give public works. Bring it to see, but don't blame all the previous ones and leave implied as to how they were being given or why the works were being given. If you have anything to say, say it. If you don't have anything to say, tell us what you're going to do. Tell us when the Corinth - Patras road will end. Tell us when the line's over. Tell us what's going to happen with Morea. That's what you have to tell us and give us timelines. Everything else is excuses. You tell us that competition will be opened - that is what you want - so that other companies can get in and people can imagine small companies coming in. We're talking about big companies coming in, Mr. Spirtzi, and it's none of our business. You're an engineer. I'm a citizen, I'm a user, like most of them here. You speak with the expert's arrogance. But, you know, your ministry is for the citizens, not the engineers. It's to serve us. You should give us specific timetables. You should stop this moral game, which you do not only, but the government as a whole. It's dangerous and we'll all pay for it. Finally, we need to put the ideas behind. I am a new Member of Parliament, and I believe that only by overcoming ideas and by broad consensus the country can go ahead. Unfortunately, you don't want to. Unfortunately, you see enemies everywhere. Unfortunately, you are telling us that you will change a project which is a product of consultation with regions and municipalities. And what are you doing? You "first time left" lighters think that there was no state before and that this was created on 25th of the month - a state as you have in mind. The people did not vote for you to stop the works. He voted for you so he wouldn't pay HISPIA. He voted for you to get the 751 euros. He voted for you because you fooled him. I hope that the negotiations, which you have not told us about, will not be like the Baroufakis negotiations. And also solve your internal problems. The representative of your government partners has asked you hard questions. 'The contractors who do and show'. He's, you know, your partner. Is she right? Is people going to jail? Isn't he right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u223	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u224	For Mr. Nicholas. He's asked these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u225	Finish, Mr. Kasaniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u226	So you have your own issues or you'll bring M Stop playing this game and tell us the time, Mr. Spirtzi. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u227	Thank you. Mr Consolas, Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Despite the tension in the National Representation, we all believe that this debate on the development of major projects in our country has a positive sign today because at least parliamentary dialogue is being promoted. On the other hand, as my fellow Members have rightly said, at least there is a delusion to the government on the occasion of this debate to move forward and to complete some of the projects which are very useful at this time. Mr President, I would like to focus our debate on the fourteen regional airports, for which the competitive process of their exploitation has been completed, but also on the other airports which depend on the fate of these airports, which at least the previous government had decided strategically to make use of, in order to be modernised and competitive in the geopolitical environment of the country, in terms of the geophysical landscape of the region and in terms of European airports. I would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, in the interview that the Prime Minister gave a few days ago, Mr Hazinikolau. There, with disarming honesty, he admitted - of course, this is a confession that came after the elections - that the price of the competitive process for regional airports was not bad and even called it particularly high. I note that, because I must remind colleagues in the government, particularly the officials of the Government and the Ministry concerned, that there was no higher price privatization agreement. You know that, Minister. You're a technician and you know. There is a one-off payment of EUR 1.234 million. That's a huge size! There is an annual rent of EUR 23,000,000. Let's not get over this. It is also foreseen that the strategic investor should invest EUR 1.4 billion, of which 330 million should be made over the first four years. Notable, too. New jobs are being created directly, over a thousand five hundred, and the activity to be developed is expected to indirectly create fifteen thousand more jobs. That's a big deal of time. Minister, the government has given up the announcement of cancellation of the tender and exploitation of regional airports. And, therefore, those who had made this announcement - it is good to see daily papers and posts in Parliament and in their constituencies - will clearly have a problem with the next day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What has not been made clear is why you have not made any use, given that the regional airports are financially strangled and many of what is received by millions of visitors have a particularly bad picture. You know it. In Rhodes, Kos, Thessaloniki, Corfu, airports in Crete, more than thirteen million passengers are moved. In other words, there is more than 73% of the country's total movement. I heard Mr Varoufakis yesterday - we have all heard him - proclaiming, together with the agreement with the partners and the agreement on regional airports, and even renegotiation of concessions. But you will allow me, Minister, to have reservations, because Mr Varoufakis has repeatedly been disproved and disproved on other issues. With regard to this, we would like a responsible answer from both you and Mr Stathakis. Mr Varoufakis talked about changing the conditions for public participation in the scheme and greater investment by private individuals. Is that contrary to Mr. Stathakis' position in his prototype? So what does common sense say? It says that public participation cannot take place without a reduction in the price of 1,234 billion to be paid one-off and the 23 million to be the annual rent. The same applies to the modification of conditions relating to a greater amount of investment than 1.4 billion. I think that, if you really want to negotiate something, that should be the price policy at the end of airports. It is very important, especially for the island country. This is the crucial factor, which, along with the services, makes an airport attractive. And if you do achieve something better, believe me that we will support you. However, it is certain that this loose ends, because there are huge impacts on tourism. In the past few days, and this time, tragic events have been taking place with regard to illegal immigration. Reservation indicators for the tourist product, according to the measurable data of SETE, do not satisfy us, Minister. Therefore, it cannot be planned long-term by airlines because of the events and to accede to agreements between self-government and airlines in order to increase the number of flights, because they do not know exactly what costs. The uncertainty that exists today prevents the closure of these agreements. What is important is to upgrade regional airports’ services and infrastructures. Even if you sign the contract for the development of regional airports, the state will be responsible for a year. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to remind the Ministry's leadership that in the time the state will be responsible for the operation of airports, should it follow the practice of abandoning and depreciating regional airports, as is the case today? So, we have an interval that we need to see what happens. This is unacceptable from us, already having problems with air transport or weakening the services and staff of airports during a tourist season.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u229	Please finish, Mr. Consola.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u230	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you very much for tolerance. Apart from using regional airports, however, we must not forget, Minister, that there are other smaller airports - satellites at these airports. These airports can only be exploited and strengthened their strategic position if the overall shape of the fourteen regional airports is exploited. The revenue resulting from the exploitation of the largest regional airports will be of many benefit to the whole country in general. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u231	Thank you. The reason for the honourable Members is Mr Apostolos Besiropoulos, MP of the Imathia Prefecture. Estimated time for its dentology is two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to refer to a very serious issue of the CSR recovery projects financed by the NSRF. It concerns you as far as the regulatory framework for funding is concerned. I would point out that the restoration works of CIDs that were ready to be auctioned, cancelled or transferred in the future. What's the problem? The problem is that the projects have end-of-end completion time at the end of 2015. And works such as the restoration work of the CIDs of the Municipality of Naoussa and Verea, the competition of which takes place on June 9th, pose the risk of not being a contractor and of course not being completed by the end of 2015. I would also stress that a fine of EUR 40,000 per se will be introduced from June for any inactive landfill that is not restored and EUR 80,000 for any active landfill. The total amount of the fine to be paid on 2 June is EUR 11,400,000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr Minister, if the recovery projects are not completed, there is a clear risk that the European Union will be asked to repay money and that national resources will be lost. The same is true of both Veroia CIDs and the remaining HIDAs for rehabilitation in the Municipality of Alexandria. I stress that the Municipality of Alexandria has already restored three more CIDs and the problem of delay at the moment is the supplementary contract resulting from the contract that is based on the contractor's specificities and difficulties presented by the restoration work of Alexandria's CID, which is 70% of the total work that has been auctioned. I would like to point out that the members of the government, all newly elected, are not responsible for this limit point that has reached us, since there have been delays, mainly due to the co-legislative ministries of the interior and the environment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I appreciate all the self-government and, in particular, the newly elected people, they have realised that there can be no further delay in the rehabilitation work of CSR and move with responsibility and quite a different perception in relation to the past. There is a serious problem in the Cyclades islands because of the particularities you know and especially in Andros. It is a pretext that mistakes have been made in the past and delays have been made. We must, however, address this marginal situation that has now been created on the basis of objective and rational criteria. I believe, Minister, that you should pay particular attention to the issue, and in cooperation with the services of the European Union, seeking a common and binding agreement, so that there can be extensions to CSR-rehabilitation projects financed by the NSRP, but also not to impose the municipalities at this time with exterminating fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u233	The last speaker is Mr Stergios Giannakis, MP of Prevezis, for his denology. The planned time is two minutes, Mr. Giannakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. I must say, Minister, that the ambiguity - which I must say is not creative at all - has become the dominant practice of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Uncertain today's placement. Clearly, the answer you gave days ago to a fellow Member's question on the question of the Arctic link. Clearly and the answer to another question about the possible reduction of tolls on the Riu-Antirio bridge. Answer to interrupt Ambros project I didn't get. The answer I received was that the project continues, or rather all the projects continue, which is not true. Every day I spend four months now seeing that there is no job at all. You have not convinced me that you have any development vision to promote major infrastructure projects in the country. But after your position today, I wonder if, as a government and as a ministry, you are aware of the need for this promotion. If you are showing such flaw for big development, I believe that the smaller ones have no luck in your day. And of course I am not talking about the Ionian road, nor am I talking about the Ambraya-Atlantic road that continues to do the kite'stop-start' with a number of problems, with all the timescales literally blown up in the air. In any case, we realise that their full function is referred to the future. You know the importance of integration. With the completion of the Aktio - Ambrosia motorway, the distances for Lefkada, Preveza, Igoumenitsa, Vonica, Amphilosia and in combination with the Ionian Road will finally be reduced. It will also give a development boost to both the Aktios link and the local airport. Indirectly will benefit the islands of Corfu, Paxos, Kefalonia, since the approach to the west coast will be considerably reduced. Now, in both cases of motorways, it is important to help resolve the problems that exist so that you do not be called upon to pay compensation to the recipients on the one hand and, on the other hand, not to lead to further delays in the transfer of the projects to the new ESDP. I conclude by saying, Minister, that due to rainfall, flooding and lack of maintenance throughout the entire continent's road network, which is damaged, your immediate intervention is needed to restore it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u235	Thank you. The list of honourable Members has been completed. The Minister will speak in the form of tritology, with time available, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I did not ask for the floor on staff, despite the insults and the insults. But I will say a few words about what has been heard. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, firstly, it is an honor to me and, in accordance with the decision of the Governing Board of the TEI and the Technical Chamber of Engineers - which is why I swore to the Minister as President of the TEI and then resigned, by decision of the governor - that the Prime Minister chose the President of the TEI as a non-parliamentary Minister, a Deputy Minister in this matter. It's bothering you. Mr. Screka, you're here at least when you said it, Mr. Panayotopoulos is gone. Mr. Screkas is a colleague, Mr. Panagiotopoulos is from a family of engineers. As ministers, how many times have you met with the President and the governor of the TEI?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, I would like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u238	You are wrong about the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u239	Minister, wait a minute. The Minister has heard a lot. He didn't open his mouth. Please can't go on like this, Mr. Ausgeakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u240	You told us, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u241	Do you think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I have not spoken. I lifted my hand to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u243	Just a minute, Mr. Screka. That thing now, targeting, is beyond any parliamentary ethics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, we will listen with respect and talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u245	Please, you said what you wanted. Nobody interrupted you. Nobody commented on you. Please show such understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u246	Always.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u247	Therefore, do not stop once.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u248	Never. I just need to get the floor later. That's why I lifted my hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u249	It's over. Please, this is an issue of fundamental ethics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u250	Did I say anything that offended you? I would remind you that I was five years elected to the Chamber of Technical Chamber - I had been elected too often in my life, in various seats - and we did not meet once. You were at the Ministry of Social Security. Problems with engineer insurance were top. We had growth. It was then Mr Panagiotopoulos, Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Social Security. We had asked, if I remember correctly, the Minister responsible then tens of times to meet. Not once. And with the President, I told you we've met as well as the primary organizations. Let's go to second. I have written down what has affected you for the personal assault and from what Mr Javarras said, an effort in my view of artificial scarleting. One was the mistake for Mr. Kouvela. I asked him to apologize. As far as the second one is concerned, I did not say that. You took advantage of it like we're in the amphitheater. No problem, no personal references have been made to you. I've made a political reference to your space. Third, they don't hurt me and we don't get hurt by personal attacks. It's a regular tactic. With the policy pursued by the government on critical issues - and within critical issues you know very well that they are public works - we do not mind the targeting a Minister will accept and accept. We're ready. We've all been through fire and iron in society. That's why we're so calm when you go out and say what you're saying. We don't have a problem. Also, you can have a problem with style. You said vaguely, except for the last three Members, that we did not answer you specifically. Firstly, I have not finished my position on account of time, and secondly, I was answering you what has happened and what we are planning to do for every project you mention within your text. What have you not understood from what I said? Where's the non-answer? We really don't degrade ourselves like that. Finally, to conclude with the personal questions, I was accused of being in PASOK. It is an honor to be in PASOK until PASOK ceases to serve its principles, values and the majority of the Greek people. That is why a very large part of the world - and from your side - voted for SYRIZA and came out first party. You don't understand that? Our honor is what you're saying. We have remained faithful to our principles and values, not the others who cooperated. Mr. Aggenakis, we know each other very well. Five years I was President of the TEI. Three months ago when I was President of the TEI, do you remember what I was saying to the committees? Do you think now I'm taking tests to show that I'm a good symcrast? Don't you remember them? At least you were in the committees. You heard them. The rest of them were engineers, they heard them, they saw the press releases. In fact, I was informed, because I was not in the Chamber, that someone asked, because I am talking about public works, which I was president of the TEI. Are you serious? Haven't you ever read a statement from the Technical Chamber on public works? Never? Ask a mechanic whoever you want. Ask a man of yours, from your resignation. This is not how we degrade ourselves. We can handle it. We've been honest all these years. Call as much as you like. We have nothing to fear. It is also an honour to be an ex-parliamentary minister to this government, with this particular Prime Minister and you have an additional cause. I don't have immunity. I don't even wish to have one. I have nothing to fear or what I say or what I do. The public interest is not only protected by democratic institutions. The public interest is protected by the contracts made by the State, by the institutions. Mr Javarras knows very well who I am and knows very well that the engineering society and the rest of society know that. So let's say what they want. These aren't touching us. Let me then reply to the specific questions you have raised in your speech. Mr. Kastaniotis, you have asked for specific timetables.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u251	He's an editor. Catacaiotis is my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u252	I'm so sorry. It's not irony. I'm not saying this for you, but for the rest of your colleagues. I was wrong. In order to have timelines, there should have been projects that were normally rolling. No one can give a schedule to the metro of Thessaloniki, when we received it with seventy hundred million additional money, which the consortium wants to get, when the contract was 900 million, when the original contract was provided for in the original contract that the archaeology would end in one year, when the manufacturer claimed that the final date of the project was over and the "ATITIC MERO S.A." said no. Let me tell you what we were doing, so you could be informed. We have made a committee with representatives of the "ATTIC MERO S.A." and the consortium. There's been two meetings. The first meeting of the committee - because the members have finally been appointed - will take place on Wednesday. You can also visit the "Attica METRO S.A." and the consortium to find out about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u253	I didn't tell you about this project.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u254	You're not leaving me. You asked me for timelines for the projects and I tell you timelines and what we've done. Isn't that what you asked? Isn't that what you're asking?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u255	For specific projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u256	That's what I'm saying. For Egnatia, one move is this so that within fifteen, twenty days this committee will bring a conclusion, if there may be agreement and so that we do not continue the traditional, twenty-year-old tradition of the project not ending, not running, asking for claims and having a city and a society hostage. We also made a second committee provided by the Public Works Act. It's going to be this committee. It is a ministerial decision - it will come out - that characterises the work of special importance. So there will be a committee with city and ministries to monitor the progress of society and all the elements of the project, which has obviously not been done for twenty years now. For the rest, make a little patience finish the committee and give you a specific timetable for a project that is really a monument of inconsistencies. And we don't see any enemies everywhere. Another question - and indeed we were accused of lying by Mr Heraklion, but it is not the first time that I have come to Parliament for parliamentary work, I have come to questions too many times, etc. - is there's been a complaint in the D15 that the Minister hasn't had a consultant to deal with. You think so? That's what we've overthrown. I want you to understand that. I really want you to understand that. They're not substituting the agencies anymore. They're not substituting the services. The Ministers' advisers are expedient to be able to be an effective service, to document problems of society and the Ministry and not to go to do the work of the I15. As soon as I get a report from the D15, I'll let you know. You seem to have better access to the Ministry or to that service to know the specific check demand. Of course, the Minister for Public Works is not - nor the Minister for Development with our new titles - going to oversee the works. You insulted us because we did not go to see the airport project in Crete. Is that Mr. Stathakis' job and mine? We don't want to cut ribbons. I said it before. That's not our style. To finish works and unlock them where they are, we want them. As far as E65 is concerned, I was asked by Mr Screkas what we will do if North and South are to continue. Mr. Skreka, it will continue if the concessionaires agree on the concession model and the principles we put, if within the calculation of the tolls it is not just a technocratic sterile model but also factors that take into account society, the economic situation, when small and medium-sized enterprises can pass freely, when they can have free access to areas that do not have a safe alternative route and so on. We've been through this a thousand times. Isn't that specific? I said it before. Technical solution lies. It's very simple. And that's the preparation we're doing now. And because there's another kind of misunderstanding, the model we're talking about is to give another twenty-five years of highways to some people working on them? Of course not! It is so that you can have lower tolls and depending on the load and the financial situation, that the contract period can be reduced if the load is increased or spread when it is reduced. In other words, the return from what is happening. What's up today? Today we're in crisis, we've got high tolls, smaller tolls, so tolls are back up. It's got to be the right way back! You don't have to be an expert. The rest of you give it to an economist and a mechanic, a transporter, and he takes the model out of it. That's what's going on, so you can get some updates. And we hope that all the concessionaires know the basic principles, that they will also be prepared to give us their views, so that we can continue well. I don't know if I've forgotten anything from your remittances. Now we're going to the network projects because you blamed us for answering. Before I went there, I did not once say the word 'ethical'. It doesn't suit any progressive human beings. We don't say that. We say other things. We say that we serve the Greek people and do not serve others. This is not about morality, it is about politics and who you represent. You blamed us for the answer. I will give you a number of examples, apart from what the Minister said, which has been done and you will tell us whether or not we did it properly. Electionally all the CCTs joined the country's digital convergence, with the same object. Instead of a competition coming out for all the C.T.S.s, they came out fifty-two. I mean, it's paid for fifty-two. What timeline? With a timetable that doesn't end when the ESRB is over. In other words, with a budget that would be transferred to the EDP. Positive. It was an election period. Same for the Holy Metropolitans. The same for many areas where the public does not see television and had to pay the Greek public - the regions and the municipalities - the equipment of DIGEA. Same for a chartered couple. The same and worse for the election proclamation of wifi everywhere - everywhere! - without any telecommunications connections. Should we leave that? You say. We should let them go and the Greek people pay them in the crisis. That makes sense. Since the third CSF, 1.5 billion commitments have been carried over to the ICP. From the NRP, if this job was not done by the government, how much do you think they would be transferred? Another $2.5 billion, $3 billion, $4 billion? Do we care? The ones who would have done it, would they ever have paid? Does the state have them? Who would he charge them to? Wouldn't it fall on the back of the Greek taxpayer? And, of course, how much of the EBRD if we were to follow the design yours? Why are you telling us now? Tell us what plan you have. We'll see. I told Mr. Javarra, Mr. Javarras doesn't remember them probably or he remembers what he wants. Update on resources from EPA and national RDP for motorways. On the basis of the Transport Investment Framework, pages 81 to 83, and by decision of the Secretary-General of MSY with Protocol No 2031/28-11-2014, the following five road projects I will read to you have a budget of 1 705 000. What are these? The construction of the Patras - Tower motorway, therefore, did not lose 475 million, the construction of the Kato Water - Chacona motorway, 150 million, the construction of the road connection between the coast and the west axis of the North - South, phase 2, 130 million, the construction of the Chalkida road bypass, 180 million, the construction of the Lamia - Xyniada section, Mr Skreka, 770 million. In the context of the 2014-2020 EPA, these five major projects are included in the priority axis 3 on pages 92-106 of the Operational Transport Infrastructure Programme. The overall financing of the Cohesion Fund is 430 million. Yes, sir. So we miss them in relation to your government's commitments, 1,275,000. I don't know if you understand that. We only miss 1,275,000 for these motorways. I say this to see how committed the projects he had told the Greek people and the local communities were the previous government. And you are now accusing this government of why Stathakis is going to answer them. Not put them on the workers' backs once more!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u257	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u258	I shall conclude, Mr President. Here is the table, a few figures for Parliament to know what is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u259	Yeah, but this conversation can take a lot of hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u260	Deal. TransEuropean rail links. They have been provided by the service with project discounts, overbooking 145%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u261	Put it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u262	I'll give it to the Minutes, but listen to them. I'll give it to you, because it's not clear. TransEuropean network and road safety. 227%. Road axes, Ancient Olympia - Lagadia and Crossroad, overbooking 132%. Net urban transport, 152%. Maritime transport, infrastructure and maritime safety, 170%. Is that how we're going? This is the serious programming that you already give up on us, what kind of projects are we going to run? 225% overbooking? The 145% average? Where are we going to find them, guys? I'm sorry about the expression, don't get me wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u263	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u264	So, who was consulted with the local communities? Anyone who wanted to go through the minister’s office, for it was from this district and took the work, and a number came out. We've been told, he's joined, make the decision, and it's all right. This, in my opinion, shows old-fashioned communism, a design without aim and design, shows another time that the country does not need in the crisis. Mr. Charakides, he left to answer his question. It's okay. I'll be done. I will also sincerely thank you for the personal attack you have made on me. I would also like to thank you as Minister for not letting us forget what the previous government has done. That is too positive for us not to do the same. It's honest, it's not ironic, I want you to believe it. We must not forget the worst practices of governance against society, the healthy productive forces, the middle classes and the whole Greek people. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. The process is over...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u267	Why? But it's not predictable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u268	I don't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u269	Wait a minute. First of all, don't yell!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u270	The Rules of Procedure say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u271	Let me tell you something first, and then you talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u272	It's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u273	Wait a minute. Yeah, but that's how you're gonna take the floor? Can't the Bureau speak? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the placement, the Minister's tritology is no longer provided for, the sitting is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u274	It was a second of the Minister's.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u275	No, it's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u276	I would like the floor for a minute, Mr President, to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u277	Do you want your personal reason? First of all, not both. One by one. Just a minute, Mr. Ausgeakis. You are an old parliamentarian, I am new, but I will give you the floor by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure. How long do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u278	Two minutes, Mr President, but you're not doing me a favor. It's not a derogation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u279	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u280	You don't do me a favor, I'm entitled to tritology. The Minister spoke for the second time and not for the third time. What you're saying is if he talked third on a continuous basis. So I'm gonna go quicker. I accept what Mr. Spirji said... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't interrupt, you're stalling, we're eating time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u281	It's late, they want to leave and the workers go home.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u282	I accept what you have said and the explanation you have given on staff and I consider it to be an end to it. However, as far as the issue of the blockade is concerned, Mr Spirtzi, do not make the same mistake. Restrict a little the tactic you have to atone things and then try to pick them up and fix them. With all due respect, because I want our debate to close well, you cannot claim that you Members of the Left are representing the people and everyone else. Don't forget, 36% took SYRIZA to the election, the remaining sixty what is it? Do we represent someone else? We represent the people here, we're National Representation. So please don't make this mistake. And if you have anything stubborn to say about alpha or beta, don't sprinkle an order, unlike faces. And since you're proud of PASOK, let me tell you that many of the PASOK executives who were then serving today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Ignace, you say the same thing you said. Do you want to have the last word?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u284	You're welcome. Don't criticize me for what I'm going to say. Don't criticize me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u285	Do it but it's stubborn, unconscious, unethical and unparliamentary. You take the floor on your own, basically without having him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u286	I am making use of the Rules of Procedure. And one more word...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u287	This is outside the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, I am not taking the floor at any time. I am making use of the Rules of Procedure. One more thing. It is not that the MPs have immunity and you do not. Let us know that you have the responsibility of Ministers too. It protects you, too. Second, as far as the BOAK is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u289	You're done, Mr. Ausgeakis. You said for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u291	You're done, Mr. Ausgeakis. You're afflicting the world now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u292	I'm not done. Time isn't even over. You're interrupting me now. If you're tired of being changed by a Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u293	Why? I don't understand. Why are you shouting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u294	If you're tired and want to leave a Vice President to change you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u295	That's how you're gonna talk as much as you want? What's that thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Statakis, listen a little. Because you said that there is no study from your own services, not from some of the others, I asked and they gave me these data that I said, namely that we have twenty-four kilometres under construction, thirty-five-and-a-half kilometers, is with an average of study maturity for the BOAK at all times. For the BOAK, we have ninety-two kilometers under study.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u297	We're done, Mr. Augenakis. Do not repeat the debate. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u298	That is what you said about the matter of the lie. It's not about D15. The point is that funding for...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Ignace, you're done. Respect the Bureau and the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u300	These are from the NRP that's dried up. He's got a expiry date. Mr. Spirtzi, I beg you to communicate by service. You have the right if there's a problem. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u302	No one else has the word for a joke.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u304	Only on staff. Mr. Screka, you have the floor for a minute on staff. Here you go. Let's see Mr. Screka's staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u305	First of all, Mr President, I should like to welcome the return of the Deputy Minister and the way in which I think he has been apologised. It was one way of showing that what he said in his protology was not on personal grounds but was political positions and I will, anyway, accept the retreat he made. On the E65, listen to see, tell all the truths. Listen to me. Six billion is the sectoral programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u306	For the staff, Mr. Comrade. What's the staff she's given you. What made you personally tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u307	There is an overbooking 25% and you know that there are projects in the overall program, which are not mature. E65, the southern part is a mature project, which needs to be funded. Please move on, please, to implementation, because it is something that the whole region and Greece need.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u308	Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr Skreka, for your staff! The debate on the number 5/44-2015 topical question of New Democracy Members to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism was concluded. It was an interesting conversation. It is the first time-consuming question that is being asked in this session and I would stress that it has been successful, in any case, in spite of the difficulties it has had. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-29-S1-commons.u309	With the consent of the House at 15.33 p.m. the sitting for Thursday, June 4, 2015, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a petition and a topical and urgent debate.
