ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 24-10-2015 authorisation, the Minutes of the IB Bureau, on Saturday, October 24, 2015, with regard to the resolution to the whole draft law: "Authorisation of terrestrial digital television broadcasting content providers - Establishment linked to ERT SA. Anonymous Company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Setting up of the themes of the National Telecommunications and Postal Commission (ETC) - National Communication Policy, Organization of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and a Register for Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 4070/2012 (VAT A' 82) and other provisions’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the following questions: First we will discuss the second question by number 31/26-10-2015, first question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the treatment of crime in the Municipality of Acharnon. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Toskas. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is a matter that has often dealt with your administration and your predecessors. What's the reality of the area? In the municipality of Acharnon and in neighbouring municipalities - this also applies to the area in Zefri, it applies to the Neopolitans of Aspropyrgos, and it applies to New Zoe Aspropyrgos - there are now outbreaks, in fact, of lawlessness. In fact, the possibility of the police themselves intervening in these areas is extremely limited, so that these areas have become a man of drug trafficking, illegal weapons and sometimes even more serious felonies. However, these areas are integrated into residential tissues. There are people who live there. Let me just say, for example, that a parallel consequence of this situation is that people who live in the Municipality of Acharnon and move with the urban transport, this line is almost impossible to use. What for? Because drug addicts use this urban transport by going up to obtain drugs in specific areas of the Acharnes, which are known, and, of course, by using them, they then use the same line to relocate to the Centre. This makes the citizens who use this means of transport exposes to all kinds of violations, which people, as you know, are more prone to and conduct them. There must be an answer to that. We have pointed this out not only by myself, but also by many of my fellow Members in the region. There must be an answer. The answer - I say it first, perhaps we will be able to discuss it - cannot be fragmentary. It is not solved by an operation in which we identify some major drug dealers and some arrests take place. Because the main forensic tissue remains intact. These are now areas that need special care, care and attention from the Ministry of Public Order. I will say, because many are also linked to the Roma issue, that other, parallel actions are needed. I mean, they don't only need police interventions, but they certainly need police interventions. So I wanted to ask you how you are thinking about dealing with this acute problem, which is constantly escalating and causing despair, literally, to the inhabitants of the region? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u4	Mr Toskas, Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in West Attica there is a very serious problem of infraction and crime. Since May 2015, a special anti-crime project has been drafted and implemented by my predecessor, which has served as one point. There have been several arrests - there are numbers - and they have been brought to the courts mainly Roma in the region, who have committed illegal acts. The question is what is going on, because there is a force capable of the region, which will be strengthened in the next few days, and I will tell you how, but there are really difficulties in policing the region, there are difficulties in controlling the region for well-known reasons. There are reactions, there are circuits that trade in weapons and drugs in the region and we must not let them act as they do. After November 10, West Attica will be strengthened by staff of the Delta Groups, which have been abolished. About a hundred and fifty people will strengthen the West Attica, the Megaras, Aspropyrgos, the Municipality of Acharnon. That's a lot of power. It may not be enough, but a hundred and fifty persons are a hundred fifty persons in the area. At the same time, we will try to increase information, controls and intervention. It's not just a policing matter. Mr. Vorides said so. Other measures are needed by other ministries, in order to economically strengthen the region, to integrate these people into the general social fabric. As far as I am concerned, however, on the issue of policing, the course will be that I have told you, aid with police officers and the return of seconded police officers. It's not 30%, it's 13% of what you said. Nevertheless, there is a great effort made by the two thousand about seven hundred who are seconded to political and non-political persons a great deal to come. There are great reactions - we must say this too - and I call on both my fellow Members and those who are listening to us to reduce their reactions so that we can increase policing, especially in these areas, which, since the first day I took up my duties, I said that it is a key priority for her policing and it is also the big bet in the West Attica and in the center of Athens to have increased policing. The date is the one I told you about. As far as cars are concerned, you say in your timely question, about the great problem of maintenance of cars and motorcycles, they are unfortunately supported by sponsorships. There's no structured maintenance system, and I'm surprised to see it. It is not, of course, something that has been created in the last six months. We must look at the problems in general and see with a consensus in this area how we can deal with them. Efforts are being made, but it can't work in a few days. I believe that after mid-November, you will see results, we will have to act together, in consultation with the law-abiding residents in the region, because a large part wants the police in the region, it wants control over the area, and it wants the region not to function as an illegal man, but as part of our social fabric. So the direction and policy that we are going to implement is: in consultation with the law-abiding citizens, in consultation with local government, not tolerance, but information from the region, in order to get better policing, along with the support we have told you, as well as with staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Toska. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. In the first place, I appreciate your response, in the sense that you understand the problem, you share the problem, you understand its importance. I just want to stress this. It appears many times that this is a local problem. You will allow me to say that it is, of course, local, in the sense that it has specific criminologists, but that concerns the whole of Attica. Why? Because, in fact, there are forensic outbreaks, which are used - let me say this - as forerunners, as a man for drug trafficking and illegal weapons. It is therefore not that this concerns the region. It is about the region, but it is about the way in which organized crime is organised more widely in the region of Attica and it concerns Athens, it concerns all the neighborhoods. The second issue is that - and this is, if you like, a debate on anti-crime policy - many times in order to force people - and you know people, not only want policing, but begging for policing, begging for policing, residents, municipal authorities, local councils, the whole world, perhaps contrary to other regions that feel policing as a burden, because often extensive policing is a burden on the daily lives of citizens, here the situation is so desperate that people and municipal authorities are pushing and begging for policing - many administrations of the Ministry that they are doing are the so-called 'big businesses' and there we have the arrests you are talking about. Large businesses when they exist - and this is something you need to think about - organised crime do not solve the issue, because organised crime is what it is doing? He accepts the "loss" of arrested as - let me say - part of the war with the state, organised crime is fighting against the state, so arrests are - let me say - an acceptable loss, but the rest of criminal tissue continues to work, the organization continues to work. A drug dealer is arrested, but if this dealer is not the main dealer, in fact the next day it has been replaced and drug trafficking continues unnecessarily. The same happens, regardless of whether he's being confiscated or not. Here I am opening a parentheses, to say that with the legislation that we have done many times and the detention is now extremely difficult. So there is the phenomenon of arrest, and this also creates a tension with the police authorities, but the justice, because of the laws that we have done here, has its hands tied up and cannot be effective. So, what is it that he needs? We need to strengthen day-to-day policing, and I need to say many times and very specific practical measures. Let me just say one to think about it. In the newly built Egyptian Prime Minister, for example, we had a spectacular reduction in crime, as there were controls at the two main points of control of the settlement. By checking the entrance and exit of the settlement in this way, i.e. by two blocks that were working, drugs and weapons were actually prevented because they were now afraid of the police checks that were in place. So we need to think about intervention in everyday life and - I will agree - showing zero tolerance, because there is an environment that gives rise to crime. And I will tell you that there was another mistake here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you'll excuse me, I'll finish with that thought. The fact that we have voted for a legislation which, essentially, criminal treatment of minors has become extremely diligent and is now being imprisoned only if there are serious offences, almost just homicide, has substantially transformed and pushed into using minors for drug trafficking from those who are behind it. And here, while obviously the intention was humanitarian for one, if you like, more diligent and more humane treatment of minors, the minors came here to be the victims of the pressure of the big dealers, who now use them, shielding themselves and even considering that minors and being arrested are not going to have - let me say - adverse criminal consequences. Obviously it is a complex and complex phenomenon, obviously it requires complex actions, but it is very important - and I am glad to hear it from you - that in the next few years people will see concrete actions, with which to see policing strengthened in their daily lives. It is important, and that is why we are monitoring it very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u8	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Toskas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u9	Mr Vorides, the situation cannot be considered by means of fragmentary measures, however dynamic they may be, and the crimes and infringements that exist in the region cannot be considered autonomously. Drugs come from somewhere and go somewhere. The stolen stuff comes from somewhere and goes somewhere. It is therefore entirely wrong to say that we are to blame for this area or to blame a lot more for the inhabitants of this region, which is in no way a total violation. There is infringibility from specific groups, however, that exploit a roundabout and a climate. From the first few days, then, when they informed me and told me about the dynamic actions they are taking - to be honest - I said to them: 'No, this is a mistake. The normal operation, the normal flow of police forces in the area and there is the big bet.’ The great actions taken in one day and forgotten over the next fifteen days, indeed, pay for one day. They don't last. And that's our whole effort. That is why I say again: we shall be in contact with the law-abiding residents in the region and with the local government. Before we go to the interventions and, where necessary, we will come to an agreement, we will gain an image of the environment, we will try with consensus to create the right climate and, where there is no agreement and there is infringibility, we will act in the classic way all the police in the world act. We are trying to act in the region, because it is indeed very complex. There's not just an intrusion in the area. There is poverty, there are problems in the region, there is futility. Children don't go to school and are used after the local scientists and criminals. So it's a whole phenomenon. In this respect, as far as we are concerned and in cooperation with the other ministries, we will try to take action, which they will have to do. But we also need to see the round: where are the drugs coming from, where they come from, where the stolen shit comes from and where they go from. So we want to act by examining the overall environment. And I say again: we must all help in this area to release police forces, free cars to be used where they need to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u10	I thank Mr Vorides and Mr Toska for the constructive and civilised debate. We are entering the third timely question. It is PASOK - DIMAR, Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the levelling-up of social security and protection by the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, despite the problems of the social state through the difficulties of previous years, he was trying to support the weak. Unfortunately, things have made a lot worse both with regard to the population called on the social state to support - it has increased greatly - but also with regard to the state's ability or capacity to offer this support. I will mention the programmes which have either been inactivated or negligent and characteristic inaction to implement them. Family allowances for which so much discussion has taken place. Two months you have been late to pay family allowances for six hundred and five thousand families. Last year we gave them early September, because they are useful to weak families ahead of school year. Feed card. Unfortunately, in a hundred and forty - five thousand families you promised yesterday that the money would come in tomorrow. European Aid Fund for the most deprived. We have ensured thirty and thirty million. It has been since December in a specific account of the Ministry and has not been disbursed a single euro. Fruit and vegetables distribution programme. They are rotting fruit and vegetables, Mr President, which are also being withdrawn from the programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture and are not being carried out in order to be distributed by the relevant bodies. HEREBY MOVEMENT PROGRAMME. Last year, in 2014 the Cards for the Movement of AMEs were distributed in March and April. This year, we arrive in November, any minute, and they haven't been distributed yet. Contracts with transport operators have not yet been signed. He's outlawing the Ministry. Is it possible to move and move people in need, people with disabilities, without signing the conventions? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Spirtzis, ten days ago, suggested that the disabled be taken off the OSCE buses if the ministry does not pay. The ministers had to tell them to come down from their position if they did not implement their obligations and not to the disabled. Heating allowance. Still nothing. Daycare centers for a thousand four hundred thirty children. The forty-four centers since January have been free of funding and are on the air. Parents and parental movement are involved. Medical treatment of uninsured persons. The Ministerial Decision to implement legislation has not yet been signed, although we have handed you the committee's conclusion ready. Unemployment programmes? The guaranteed income? See what you did this year with the kindergartens you left forty thousand kids out of here? The 'Help at Home' programme? You do not implement the law that we voted on last August for the permanent operation. By 30 September the conventions were to be signed. They haven't signed and they're on the air. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The State Secretary, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with caution to describe, Mr Kegeroglu, a situation that we received after a previous policy of yours. Of course, I will not stay in this controversy, which is not fruitful. But - and I must do so - I must remind you that the reductions in social security and protection expenditure occurred by at least 42% compared to 2013 and 2014, compared to only one year. Seventeen billion went near 11 billion. Our social security expenditure policy will also see it in the draft budget that will be submitted very soon for the 2016 budget, in which the appropriations will really be such that social needs can be fully met and pensions can be fully provided. Of course, in the 2016-2019 medium-term Financial Adjustment Programme you will see in total that the government is really showing the sensitivity that comes from its own ideological direction in supporting the needs of our people with all this project that we are preparing for social security reform, which is intended to support the weakest and poorest Greeks. All that is being heard will be disguised and we will in fact be strengthening the protection of our fellow citizens in an absolute way. On 30 October the amounts for the allowances will be paid. This whole thing has been closed. There is no reason to make noise about an issue that you know very well that we manage it in the suffocating context of the implementation of the budget that you had in 2014 with your policy. So we come and cover all the things we have to cover. For six hundred forty-six thousand beneficiaries, we will cover with a cost of two hundred and twenty-three million euros this need. Of course, another EUR 16.3 million with the solidarity card for feeding, I think, by 5 November. The coverage of this obligation has been determined somewhere. Overall, you will see our policy to evolve with the sensitivity shown by the government. The tax evasion, which is huge, will be hit. This is our policy, which will mainly bear fruit to support social security in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for dentistry again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u15	Parliamentary control, Mr President, has been called the noise of counterpopulation. I have said that the non-parliamentarians, who are welcome to every government to offer their services, must respect Parliament and parliamentary procedures. However, I am coming back to the noise on your part. The budget therefore had all the sums required for the payment of family allowances. Unfortunately, you've been late for two months. Instead of telling the reasons that led you to the delay, you go out and out. Family allowances, Minister, were introduced in 2013 for the first time. So it's not something that has been cut down, according to your argument. It's a new thing. The feeding card is something that has been introduced by you, by all of us, because the whole House voted in March - April. It is a sum that we must do on time, because it concerns those who experience extreme poverty. There is no excuse, that is to say, to cover other needs and not to cover those relating to the weak. For the European Aid Fund, I told you about 330 million. That's real money on a specific account of the HICP. If you want me to tell you the number. Not a single euro has been disbursed. Obviously, you take responsibility today for others who have not come to answer, but there are issues. I can tell you again that 23 million has been entered in the budget for the MEDA programme and the contracts have not been made. It is not a matter of money, it is a matter of inaction and indifference from the relevant ministers, Secretary-General, Secretary-General, and I don't know what else. It's the money in the budget, the fund, and it's gone to November, and the contracts with the OSCE and the other transport operators have not been signed. The heating allowance hopes to be announced these days, at least, at what level it will be. I told you about the forty-four day care centres for children. It's a very sensitive matter. They've been in the air since January. Your department needs to see it, because these structures will be closed. These structures are open protection structures. There are ergonomic treatments, child support, education, and they can't go back to institutions. It's very serious. Look at it, please too. Parents are mobilized today. He'll be at the ministry, maybe for a meeting with you. I don't know if he's with Mr. Catrugalo or you. I don't know. For the guaranteed income we have said many times that, apart from deceiving the pilot project, you insulted it, then came after you insisted on accepting it and will start again in April. However, pay at least the obligations of the pilot project, which are due. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For unemployment in the preliminary draft budget, Mr President, it is said that the OAED this year will be a surplus of EUR 427 million. OAED is the agency that promotes employment. So when it is a surplus of 427 million we should give thought to it. While we have general shortcomings, we have a surplus here. What's the matter, guys? Unexploitedly, 427 million, because the corresponding unemployment programmes were not put forward! It's called the preliminary draft budget. This cannot be the case in a country which has a huge unemployment rate, and even though, after a great deal of effort, we now have problems! Look at it. It's a big deal. We have a whole problem with social protection. Unfortunately, the government is not involved as much as it should. It refers to the future. But the poor, the weak, the families that want support, are now there. They don't need this support after two years. We're talking about today. There isn't. As far as insurance is concerned, unfortunately, every day we have contradictory communications. We have conflicting things and conflicting things. I would suggest that you meet the Committee on Social Affairs at your request and that you set out your own framework there. Do not cover behind the Sage Committee, the committee of some people who gave you some opinions, some services, but they do not have the political responsibility for the Ministry. This must be made clear for another reason, Minister. Unfortunately, you know that in the past few days there has been a threat with a bullet and a file sent to the chairman of the committee. I expect the Ministry to say that any opinion of the Commission is another matter or the opinions of its members. Political responsibility is at the Ministry. Take care of her. Moral automobile for whatever happens to the president and the members will be you as a ministry. Of course, Mr Toskas, who left before, must take all steps to protect both their members and their families. It's not a game. So please call on the Committee on Social Affairs to discuss insurance there, because it is not a one-minute debate, even in the context of a timely question. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you respond to Mr. Kegeroglu's position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u17	I'm gonna need about two and a half more minutes to close the time, as Mr. Kegeroglu spoke more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u18	Okay. I'll give you three minutes. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u19	Okay, I'm fine. I'm very gracious, and I won't be a patron to what I answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u20	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u21	I did not, however, expect Mr Kegeroglu to offer support to those who are threatening by transferring a responsibility to the government, because some have done this act that he should have disapproved, instead of saying that we will be moral experts for those who - from dark routes and I do not know from what channels - come to use such policies of intimidation and terrorism in our democracy. That's what he'd say if it was about others. But this is where the moral responsibility lies in our own government for those who are threatening. Such support would obviously not have been expected, nor would political persons in such a way threatening to be disapproached.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u22	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u23	You're a provocator.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u24	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u25	You're a big provocator!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u26	You have a problem, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u27	You have a serious problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u28	You have a serious problem and you also have the favor of bringing immunity, which you enjoy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u29	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, do not interrupt the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u30	You come here with courage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u31	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u32	You said exactly that, that the moral perpetrators are in the government, that's the minister why the bullet was sent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u33	Yes, why are you turning the responsibility of political decisions into committees?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u34	Every time you hit it, when you say something and it goes backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u35	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u36	That's why I told you last time to be careful when you talk to me. You're hitting on it. Pick up a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u37	Answer me. You don't know what to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u38	Pick up a little, Mr. Kegeroglu. You'll learn your lesson.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Kegeroglu, I would ask you not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u40	You said exactly that, that moral automobile was the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u41	You and Mr. Katrugalos are hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u42	Did you hear what I said? What can I tell you, Mr. Kegeroglu? At some point there's no point in talking to you. However, because you are asking, in the context of the audit, I am obliged to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u43	You don't speak personally. You're talking to the Congressman's institution. He's a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u44	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u45	What do you want, Mr. Constantinople?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u46	It's not personal. He's a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u47	I'm answering. Politically, he didn't put it on me? Politically, I answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u48	Please, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Constantinople, you won't tell me how I'm going to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u50	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Constantinople, leave the fight now. What exactly do you want? Every time I show up, will you do this job? I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Undersecretary, please. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u53	Let go of those trade unions!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u54	Don't give up on that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u55	You are neither a lawyer nor a lawyer of Attica Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u56	Please, Mr. Constantinople!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u57	I won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u58	Please! That is not how we can have the dialogue. Are you intervening without a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u59	What are you doing? Does your democracy have that idea?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u60	Please! Carry on, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u61	I should therefore point out that. It's a bump. It would be a good thing if Mr Kegeroglu withdrew it, because else he would like to say, and he said what we have heard. Let's say that. With regard to our social security policy, you will really see a social security policy that meets the needs of this country and will be a measure that will develop the transit forces of this country as well. In fact, it's a huge problem to evade. It exceeds about 5 billion annually the loss of revenue and, at last, we have to make the account and see who has to be apologise, because social security has lost 80 billion in those years when its capital was being used not for social security but for other purposes. Any losses that exist from the PSI, which was created as a solution for some, as a crime for us against social security, will cover what the state really owes to social security, even though it is a problem that this government did not create. The measures to be taken to rebuild the social security system will indeed be such, which will bring contributions. We will make the most effective use of the property and functions of social security, which I imagine you will also support, when the bill is put to the vote in Parliament and will not conflict with reasonable and necessary adjustments that we need to make to cover this prospect, which is a national need. I would remind you, however, of a number of issues: although I have no parliamentary experience - now I see this whole story evolving - I have a good memory. When Mr Spirtzis was here, he said - and indeed there was a differentiation, not to mention the criticism and criticism of the CEO - of those delays that the OSCE takes on its own responsibility. And you know the stigma that was shared here. So do not blame the government, which will soon - I do not know if it has already done so - the CEO of the OSCE to make the contracts for the movement of people with disabilities, which, of course, the government will make available as potential and solve all other problems, for which the government always shows social sensitivity. Of course, they are not going to be affected - on the contrary, they will be strengthened - the rights of people with disabilities. You know that and I imagine you have studied the joint ministerial decision recently adopted. In no case have these rights been affected by the joint ministerial decision on age limits. Exemptions exist for all those who really need protection, which we must provide to the weakest and most helpless.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u64	To what is the staff, Mr Kegeroglu, because it is not allowed to tritology by the Rules of Procedure of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u65	In the personal reports of the Minister. The Government shall be responsible for protecting the members of the Committee and their families against threats of illegal interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u66	What's the personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u67	This is my position, which the Minister has distorted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u68	However, this is not a personal matter. I mean, it's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u69	How? Didn't he touch us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u70	That's tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u71	The Minister permanently distorts reality. Mr. Spirtzis was here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u72	Clear your position here. We must not have a lasting debate. You understand that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u73	Mr Spirtz proposed here - and it was voted - that, if the Ministry fails to fulfil its obligations, the transport project will be stopped. That's a law now, with Mr. Spirtzi's suggestion. What the Minister has now said to the Chief Executive Officer has nothing to do with it. Because transport operators are also the CBELs. Why hasn't he signed the Ministry of Labour? He's waiting there to change consultants too? The Minister is a permanent provocator, as he does.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u74	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu! Don't characterize yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u75	If he really wants to respect parliamentary control, we too want to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u76	These are unprecedented things!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u77	Please, Minister! We don't want the characterizations. You're going to recall this because it's not right. You're ruining the climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u78	I said, "he's acting like this and he's going to have to stop it!" Of course, Mr President, if it is stopped, it will not be heard again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u79	We enter the fifth under the number 21/24-10-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Achaias MP Mr.Jasonos Fotidas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on national policy on the book. Please, Mr. Firela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, one of your favourite philosophers - and if I am mistaken, correct me - Louis Altouser has formulated, among other things, the view that 'the philosophical materialism is not to tell ourselves and the world of fairy tales'. Unfortunately, in the field of the book, the government is going on with the old-fashioned policy of the fairy tale, that is to say, by election, we are doing everything and we are not doing anything after-election. The Prime Minister himself at events with the people of letters in March 2014, on the occasion of the abolition of the single book price by the Government of Samaras - Venizelos due to an OECD directive - in the light of the fact that, according to the Government, he had personally promised to restore the single price to the book and the more general protection of intellectual creators. Furthermore, the Deputy Minister for Education and Culture Mr Xydakis on 25 February - I will present all of this to him in the Minutes - had spoken of the reopening of the EMCDDA or, in any case, of another relevant national body and the reintroduction of the single price of books. None of the promises, however, were kept. You haven't announced anything about this. But, basically, we must say that there has been no stopping of any concern about the book from the Ministry of Culture. Our country is presented as the only European country that has no national promotional policy, but also more general care for citizens' gratitude. The negative effects of non-existence of policy are very important. For example, I mention three: first, all the actions of the former ERCBI are limited today to the work of only three officials at the EIC, the Hellenic Foundation for Culture, who operates without a corresponding committee on the book and without an internal regulation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some more time, Mr President. If necessary, take me away time from dentistry. We must also stress this - without any rules of procedure, the CSCE also operated because of a signature that was missing and which was not in favour of - I shall say reasons. And despite calls for the EIC to be staffed, nothing has been done so that it can actually cope with its difficult task. The responsible Directorate of Letters of the Ministry of Culture has been subjected to a department by an address it was. In addition, it is unclear which body will be responsible for the operation of the ‘Biblionet’ base by which the entire book market is updated. For the single book price, which provides a minimum protection for small and medium-sized publishers and bookmakers, no action has been taken to restore it. Secondly - and I will be brief - as a result of the problematic functioning of the National Foundation for Culture is that Greek books should not be promoted properly in the international market. In the recent Frankfurt report we have to say that only Greece and North Korea were represented by a state official, no other country. Finally, the translation aid programme, called "FRASSIS", which each European country has, has ceased to operate, has lost funds from the Ministry of Culture. Despite the fact that at times there have been proposals for translations of Greek works by various European publishing houses, the slow response from the Greek side, as well as the Greek inconsistency - because the governments change - the committee must see things again, adopt again or not approve - has led to most of the efforts. And all of this has come bank closure, capital control and 23% VAT in the book. 6% is concerned, as we know, only with the sale. The production of the book, however, has 23% VAT. I would like one, first of all, of your response to these and I will return to my second language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Lightla. The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr Baltas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u82	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Fotella for the question and for the kind way in which he was put at the start. I would begin by saying that the title of the question and the essence of the positioning "Greece, the only European country without a national book policy" is like being formulated to help SYRIZA as a government, because obviously the "the only European country without a national book policy" concerns the previous governments, which have come to make Greece the only country without a national book policy. From there, I do not want to speak politically in this sense, but I say it just to remind you that the CSCE was abolished not during these days, that the CSCE joined the National Foundation for Culture and operates within it since then, that the CSCE never had permanent staff, but had contracts for people who helped as the book could, and that in the Frankfurt report a few days ago, despite the lack of staff and the others, Greece went very well. From there on, we basically agree that there must be a national book policy, and that we are in this situation today, so that with discussions like these and our own initiatives, of course, we can start in a direction of restoring a national political book. The ‘Biblionet’ is currently connected to the server and all the infrastructure that the National Documentation Centre has in place to the National Research Foundation. So it's progressing properly. The EKEBI, under this treaty that we described and agreed to, is trying as much as it can do as it can to do its job again at the Hellenic Foundation for Culture. From there on, there are problems with the "FRASSIS" programme concerning translation from Greek to foreign languages. Appropriations have been set aside to continue. So there we go, under the conditions we have, as best we can. Furthermore, with regard to the last word you are asking about reading, I would like to say that this is why we are still not to blame. It is a set of problems that have emerged in the respective NSRPs, and in that sense we have problems how in the new NSRP we will see what we will do in relation to such a programme, because as you know the funds cannot be transferred as they are. Also, as far as libraries are concerned - which is no longer the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, as was separated from the Ministry of Education, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education - to tell you from my term of office that we had first set up an informal committee in the direction of public, municipal, school libraries with the whole system of National Library and the relevant ones, so that we can finally have a system of libraries comprising both the National Library and the Universities. So we must accept that we are at the start of a new effort and that once we are normally in normality, as is said by various people, the national book policy will be restored and the need for such critical questions will be closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I'm very happy that the Minister recognized that there is a problem with the book. Apart from general announcements and wishes, however, I would like us to hear more specific things, timetables and actions. You say: 'When normality is restored'. I'd rather hear something more specific, when you plan to do and what exactly. Now, to be honest, Minister, there has never been a long-term plan for the book that can, anyway, be measured, be measurable. And, clearly, as you said, it's not SYRIZA's fault. It's to blame those who've been ruling for for forty years. We just don't see anything different about your days. There were various projects, several projects, however, in the short term. Some of them have brought some results, but we cannot know exactly what this result is, that is, if they have worked at some level in the relationship between readers and the book, if they have built new readers, if they have, anyway, made trends for reading. Any of their results have never been measured. I would just like to say a few words on the subject of gratitude. The content of the NRV programme of the Ministry of Education 2007-2013 was innovative actions to enhance awareness. Its duration was initially three years, school years 2011-2012, 2012-2013 and 2013-2014. Its scope was all the classes of full-day primary schools and, secondly, all primary schools. Not all of the actions have been completed because of the abolition of the ERCF and the lack, as we said, of the Hellenic Foundation for Culture. The program worked smoothly for a year and a half and a half without the authors going to school for another one and a half. It rejected a total of EUR 80 000 from a total budget of EUR 3.2 billion. The rest that were not absorbed were lost, as we understand. A sum of EUR 336,000 for the purchase of books for the programme schools is therefore included. The tender was cancelled at the beginning of 2013 and was not re-examined by the EIC. The Hellenic Foundation for Culture could, if it wanted, continue the implementation of the programme, requesting an extension of its duration until the school year 2014-2015, so that all of its resources can be used. It could also prepare a similar programme for the new NSRP 2014-2020. What do you intend to do in this area? Furthermore, the policy or strategy on libraries does not literally exist in our country, Minister. Greece is the only European country that has so far been unable to set up and implement a national plan for the basic institution of public libraries. The five hundred municipal libraries, built with European community money, have suspended their operation or remain open thanks to the efforts of some volunteer teachers. I would like to know what you are thinking in this area, so that this sector - and I stress this - is not exploited by the private initiative alone with what this means, as is the case today. Are there any thoughts of synergies between the Ministry of Education, the municipalities and the Ministry of Culture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u86	Evidently in the typical concept of "responsibility" it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. It is mainly the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Replaced or replaced or otherwise related to politeness should, in my opinion, also exist in the new NRP of the Ministry of Education, obviously. From that point on, we recognise that there is a kind of blooming right now, from the point of view of pedestrians, poets, people who produce, in the good sense, cultural products in the form of a book. This must be strengthened. This concept must be diffused in schools with the synergy of the Ministry of Culture. From that point on, however, the specific economic sizes involved in such a programme, I repeat that it is mainly the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, as the Ministry of Education has said before, and the synergy of libraries. That's what I think we're in coordination with. Just to condemn the evils of the past, but not to put the evils of the past into a government which has other types of jobs and commitments just from the past. From there on, I think we can, in the context of a constructive exchange of views, not only from the seats of this House, but also from the Ministry, ideas and proposals concerning such actions, which to some extent are beyond the classic party debate, would help us to have them at the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Minister. The first question under number 24/26-10-2015 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diakrias to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the Greek representation at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister and deleted. Also, the fourth question under number 30/26-10-2015, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning immediate measures to relieve the people affected by the floods of Attica, is not discussed after consultation of the applicant Member with the Minister responsible and deleted. Also, the sixth question under number 26/26-10-2015, the first question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, on the need for the immediate acquisition of a Linear Accelerator at the Department of Radiotherapy of the University General Hospital of Larissa, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third will be discussed with number 25/26-10-2015 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the government's development strategy. The Minister will answer Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I would first of all like to say that the excesses do not need Parliament, and how much more so in parliamentary work. However, it is incomprehensible that the Minister, the members of the government, should speak to a Member of Parliament personally rather than to an institution. It is incomprehensible that a Minister should say 'the end of the day, I do not need to speak with you', because, apart from personal relations, apart from anything else, there is an institutional issue here. The Minister's answer to the Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Constantinople, who are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Petropoulou mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u91	Yes, but Mr. Petropoulos isn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u92	I say this to you, however, as to the members of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u93	Yes, but please don't comment on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u94	No, no, I said it as a parentheses. Minister, you are now nine months Minister for Development. You were both in the previous government and in the current government. I hope you will do well in the coming years by the end of the four-year period and remain Minister of Development. The Ministry of Development is the Ministry with most tools, I would say, which can use to create new jobs and investment. However, it does not have them all, such as, for example, the issue of taxation for all of you, or the issues of political stability that our country needs. But let's go to your own tools. You have the N.R.R. that you yourself will handle. It's around the 22 billion for the new NSRF, it's the remaining NSRF 2007-2013. It is also the development law that you have announced many times how to bring to Parliament. Unfortunately, we don't have to see how you're going to help. You have the financial instruments that could help in this direction. You have the State Secretary for Industry, who can talk about industrial policy, such as energy costs. It has a tool grid with which you will make the central design for growth with new jobs in the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So I ask you directly what your plan is, what time you think it will be implemented and how the Ministry of Development will proceed on individual issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u95	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u96	Let me begin with a rapid review of the issues relating to development and the actions that have been taken in previous months. I shall begin with the macroeconomic framework. We will all agree that reaching the new agreement with the partners has a number of strong advantages that restore economic stability to the economy and are crucial for the coming years. Firstly, because it restructures the short-term debt and reduces the requirements for us to produce surpluses of 4.5% at more realistic levels, saving many resources, secondly because it covers all funding by 2022, and thirdly because there is the key point in the restructuring of the banking system, which, through recapitalisation, is the most crucial factor in the smooth financing of the economy. Therefore, under the circumstances, at this time when the government's governance has been entrusted with and renewed by the second election, the achievement of all this stabilisation is absolutely crucial to address the problems of growth. I am entering the instruments of the Ministry itself, which are absolutely crucial in this respect. Let's start with the NSA. The Government took over the NRVs at a time that closed the previous NRV for the period 2007-2013 and started the new 2014-2020. It is important to point out what we have done in this regard. Firstly, we inherited a previous NSRP which was highly over-covered in some programmes. What we did was as simple as that. We categorised the previous NRP to three categories: First, the projects that will be completed by the end of 2015, second, the projects that will go to the next NRP and continue there, because they are allowed to continue there and third, the projects that had to be awarded, because they do not belong either to the first category or to the second category. This process began and was completed between April and June successfully, ensuring the smooth closure of the previous ESDP. For the new ESDP, we have taken all the necessary steps to get it started smoothly. For the truth, I would remind you that over the past fifteen days, the first announcements of four programmes geared solely to medium-sized tourism and elsewhere and to the treatment of unemployment, particularly professional engineers and other categories of young scientists, have been made. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me two minutes, Mr President, if I may. At the same time, we have taken two additional measures. Firstly, we made a loan with the European Investment Bank of 1 billion and were disbursed the first 330 million days ago in order for there to be a smooth funding exclusively for the ESRB. This loan will cover gaps or any gaps shown in the financing of the ESRB. The second thing we did is this. We have had a very positive development, on the initiative of the Commission and the Government, in order to have new positive regulations for Greece, in order to increase liquidity in the NSRF. So, on a proposal from the Commission, the European Parliament passed two important regulations. Firstly, the funding of 5% of national participation in the old NSRP with European funds and, secondly, the increase in the advance for the new NSRP from 7% to 14%. All this creates additional liquidity for 2015-2016 of 2 billion. And the third thing we did is this. Under the constraints set in the two-three-month period of the capital control which has made it difficult to finance properly, we have taken all the necessary measures to return to full normality on the question of the financing of the ESRB. I would remind you that from 1 August we had an agreement and managed to have 1 million a day to release from the Bank of Greece for the ESRB. From 1 September this became 2 million per day and a week ago fully released access to the ESDP by the programme recipients, so we can confirm that we have already returned to the full functioning of the ESDP in the current period. What I just told you was also confirmed by the Dombrovskis visit, where, on the subject of the ESDP, it was considered and publicly formulated that the whole issue is on a steady path and in full harmony with the developments and the course of absorption of resources, as planned. The second issue concerns three government initiatives. One initiative is the new development law. The consultation procedure has been completed with a hundred and twenty social and economic actors, so we are very close to tabling it and from 1 January to 1 January. But the second problem with development law is legacy from the past. I would remind you that from the previous two development laws, the government found six thousand investment projects - some integrated, some in progress and some without actually starting up - with commitments of about 6 billion euros and zero funds, because the resources available from the previous NSRP, together with other sources of funding for the old euro development laws, had been frozen by the Commission in the past, in 2010 and 2011. What we did as a new government was first to unleash that money. Following strong negotiations and a plan that we proposed to restructure the services, this was achieved in June. Secondly, we are trying to speed up - and speed up - the process of classifying and addressing the great problem of old development laws, in order to find a solution to a problem which is unresolved. The third and last thing we have done is that we have taken initiatives to have new financial instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would remind you of our agreement with the BRD that is currently coming to Parliament, the operation of the EIF and the full absorption of all available funds together with the idea of a strong upgrade of the EIF, which we are planning in the standards of its more developmental function, which is imminent in the immediate future. Fourth and last. The Ministry has announced the establishment of a development council and the completion of the overall development plan for the country by March 2016, as provided for in the agreement with partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u98	The first good thing I want to say is - and I hope you will, Minister, because you have made further announcements as Ministry - that from 1-1-2016 we will have the new development law. I think this is very important and I hope you will keep these dates and the Ministry will implement them. The second concerns the convention that is coming today. You know very well that this contract was made a year ago by the previous government. Of course, you have moved on. You have made progress with delay, but you have moved on quite rightly. We were given the opportunity to speak in this House and with Mr Dombrovskis - we are proposing it to you - where we said that the country has a real problem with funding. This exists because of the financial instruments and the problems with the banks. With something similar that you are trying to do, all the money from the financial instruments and private funds could be raised there - and the Commission could help it through the Development Bank - so that they could be otherwise financed - as is done in England and Israel, which I think for all of us are standards - new business activities for start-ups and all of this. But you must move on quickly, because banks have a real problem, and if they do not create a similar fund, they will not be able to finance the proposals of the new people in the country, who are very good and go abroad, in America, Israel and England, so that they can finance them. I therefore hope that in the next few years we will have the opportunity to see these two. But, Minister, we must not forget that when you took over, even this small, anemic development existed. Today we're in recession. There was a recapitalisation, and we need recapitalisation. Unemployment has declined very little, and now it has risen. All this remains as matters, but we need to see the future. Unfortunately, Minister, I heard you say that in August you were giving a million euros every day. This means that in twenty-four days you have given 24m euros to the market in September, 2m euros, and if we put 50m euros on weekends. Now I don't know exactly where the issue of absorption is. You yourself - and you yourself - have the information that you have said - that the appropriate infrastructure had been created - you were a Member when we voted in December on the draft ESDP, which, on the same day, Mrs Kretshu, who is the same today, gave the green light for both the forward actions and the new ESDP - but unfortunately, they do not have the same absorption. And you know that very well. In 2014, we had 5.8 billion absorption and at least - and please see the figures from IKA - eighty thousand new jobs through the NSRF. Because this distinction can be made, please confirm the evidence through IKA's commander. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what needs to be done today, Minister - and you need to see it - is to find solutions. I'd suggest you had an extension. I understand the difficulties that exist because of your responsibility, the government, you have arrived here. But what are you doing today? Many projects since 2014 - and I will ask you for a similar request for documents, to see what projects over 5 million - you will transfer them to the new period. Other works had been carried. That means, Minister, that a 40% - if I am not mistaken - of the new ESDP budget is bound by old projects. And what does that mean? That means that nine projects that we could put in, we can't put them in. Why? So that we do not lose resources, as you quite rightly said. It was one of the two solutions. The other solution was an extension, which was more difficult. I understand the difficulties. The best way, however, would be to absorb it in 2015. Today, then, we will commit too many resources. New ESDP and programmes. Minister, you know very well that since 2015, forward action could begin. We have arrived today and you have not yet decided who will manage these programmes. Who's gonna manage them? Will it be the Ministry? Is there going to be a declaration? Is there going to be a contract notice? Who will it be? Will the banks be? We had proposed in the previous period - as long as we were in the Ministry - the body that already existed, which was very reliable and which did the previous actions. And there could be a competition. You haven't made him yet. In fact, I hear you are going to make a competition for four actions without knowing who will implement these actions. And I ask you. Who will implement them? Mr Minister, I am ending this and I think you will find us a real effort to help you, because the issue of new jobs is of concern to us all. I suggest that as a Ministry of Development you do a "new deal" with the business world. You can do it. You need to take the initiative. To become a "new deal" with the business world for Greece of 2030, to join the common effort. If there is no private sector, if there are no entrepreneurs, there will be no new jobs in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor again, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u100	I shall begin with the general picture of the economy. Capital control, as we know, has been a very unpleasant development and a choice of government of course. They have come under the circumstances and the choices made at the time, regarding the financing of the banking sector by the European Central Bank. However, we must all recognise that the initial assessments that this difficult economic situation would lead to a great recession in the Greek economy - I would remind you that the initial assessments were between 2.5% and 4% - have been overturned. Today's estimates speak of a much smaller recession of 1.5% - perhaps even 1.3% - which suggests two things: First, the management chosen by the government on tomorrow's capital control was rather extremely successful. I would remind you of the dozens of decisions which have been made to deal with very difficult problems: the smooth operation of the tourism sector at its edge, the smooth introduction and management of the shipping exchange rate, decisions that are absolutely crucial to imports and exports of the country and so on. Decentralisation of the system to the fullest extent possible to the banking branches themselves and limit the functioning of the central demand management committee to the very large requests, a continuous increase in the limit to be managed by banks and so on. I am saying this, precisely to underline the fact that the one factor that created a positive impact was the same management chosen by the government in those two months. Secondly, it was, of course, a very good year for tourism and this has had a positive impact on the containment of the recession. That's all about the general. Now, in relation to the NRP itself and its management, I would like to say: The smooth functioning of the NRP ensures that by the end of 2015 and the first quarter of 2017 we are talking about an absorption of very high amounts of 4.5 billion. I would remind you that by March 2016 there will be a procedure with which we can technically deal with problems. The issue of prolongation, as you know, is a complex matter. It was not formulated when it was formulated by eight other countries at the end of 2014. We weren't government. But there has been an extensive debate. We are trying to find out what the best way is either to formulate this request at the right time or technically to find ways to extend very individual, specific projects. For the time being, I would remind you that the decision on which projects are being completed, what projects have been responded and what projects are going through the next ESDP, was taken last April. It is very wise to formulate and make choices. The projects that have gone to the next phase do not involve very large projects by definition. They include individual projects, which were important. But they don't cover 40%. It's much smaller the facing that happened. I would like to remind you now: The options should always be taken care of the problem that projects which, for various reasons, are not completed, are actually treated by the Public Investment Programme, strictly from national resources. If this is not achieved by national resources, then the projects are withdrawn. So this balance has to be set. We have made these choices public - I repeat - last June and I think we can defend them. Now on the major issue of youth entrepreneurship, I would like to say that I fully share the thoughts of strong strengthening youth entrepreneurship. The big capital of the country and the new development model from there starts. It's the country's young manpower. For once, we recall that one in two young Greeks is a graduate of the university, so there is an extremely educated human resources. This will form the basis of growth. After all, youth entrepreneurship is a priority at all levels. This is very much reflected in the development law, reflected in the initiatives, in the new ESDP programmes that have been launched. I am amazed, saying that management will be done - as you know - with the system of aggregated management authorities that remain at the Ministry, with the exception of immigration and some other subsectors that have been decentralised...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u101	The management body will be the Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u102	The management body shall be the body that submits and has the programme. So together with the managing authorities will proceed with the implementation of the programmes. I'm closing my parentheses and I'm coming back to our main theme. I think that, at the moment, the smooth development of the programmes will result in a positive footprint. There are individual projects which have not been completed and which we have discussed for a long time with Mr Dobrovskis and the Commission. I would remind you that there are projects such as the Thessaloniki metro, some motorways that are being completed - such as the Morea motorway - there is the problem with programmes that have been too late, such as 'ZEEZIS' and many others, but which are being examined on a case-by-case basis. We have agreed on a framework for the completion of things that can be done immediately and there will be further discussions on the most problematic of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational escorts from the Koutsopoulos Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Member, Mr Gavroglou, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u104	The House approved the requested permission. We move to the fifth, with number 27/26-10-2015, a timely question from the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the imposition of an additional fee for the passage of public freight from the port zone of Chalkida. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, I believe that the small students have had the opportunity today to follow an interesting parliamentary procedure, both from the Communism and from the Opposition and from the Government, which had many interests in hurting and confronting the future of all of us and the future of them. At the same time, however, I believe that they would have felt the same sadness that I am sure you, Mr President, will feel as an old parliamentarian, facing the empty seats of this House. Let her have it. Minister, while we all conclude that five years now that we have been living in this crisis, the unscrupulous, these grim economic days that the country is experiencing, and all of the professional sectors regardless of this five-year anti-development policy, that it is necessary to find ways of legislative intervention to alleviate those who are active in the economy and not to add new burdens, I was informed a few days ago by my good colleague Nikos Mavragani, MP of Chalkida - and then came to the Christian Democratic Party of Greece, the Association of Public Taxes - this paradox: Mr President, there is an example of avoiding at the Port Agency of Evia. There, therefore, every truck entering the port zone is invited to pay a toll of EUR 500 a year or EUR 80 a month, in order for trucks entering, loading or unloading their goods. And because that - from what I was told - it is probably not happening anywhere else, to any other body, and because it imposed this by ministerial decision, 8122.1/49/4014 and was published in FEK B 2746/2014 in Article 26, I am glad the Minister responded to and is here today. I am transporting it - I believe - justified and reasonable request from the favourite haulier industry and I would ask him very much to intervene immediately and to do what is self-evident, because the time has passed for a lot of talk. We heard the interesting debate that took place just now in the previous time. The months pass, the years pass, and we're still in a lot of talk. Minister, I have already tabled a topical question to you today because, not with the same content - we have in the port area of Patras. And who would expect it when the ports were always the growth levers, they were the heavy industry for a city. And that is why the citizens' great demand in the past few years has been for our town to acquire a port. Everyone knew and thought he was a growth lung. So, is it possible, today, in the times that we are living, to allow some - like the Port Agency of Evia - to make such anti-development and unfair decisions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Nicholas. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u107	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. The issue has also been raised by the directly concerned, the Evian Automotive Federation of Public Vehicle Owners and by Evia MPs. Mr Mavragans had asked a question since August, but was not discussed at that time. Also, Members of all the parties have addressed me as well as the SYRIZA MPs of the Evia Prefecture. We agree - and you are right to put it in your question - that we need to reduce the burden of productive activities so that we can boost their productive activity. A separate area in these productive activities is transport. It is an important sector, with many levels of investment, maintenance, in the case of lorries, etc. On the other hand, it is the port facilities that are managed and managed by the port authorities. One activity is productive and the other is one activity. We have to take stock of goods. I am telling you right from the outset that, because these issues have already been raised with other opportunities, there is an increase or imposition of a charge per person or per vehicle - as appropriate - for the return of the security services of the applicable ISPS code which is an international code for the safety regulations that each port must observe. These have a cost, etc. And that's where a conversation has been born. So I am telling you right from the outset that the aim of the ministry - the process has already been activated - is to put things down, to form some criteria overall for all the ports in the country and to resolve the issue of legality, feasibility, necessity, benefactivity and the developmental or non-developmental impact of each end on a comprehensive design. We are already moving in this process, because we really need to see it. However, I would like to say to you that it is not the only port agency that has fees for the use of a port zone, entry and exit. They're not tolls exactly. They're more ports. I will report to you in my remarks, in detail, those that have such decisions. These are arrangements in which the Ministry of Shipping exercises supervision. This regulation, as you have already mentioned and I do not need to tell you, has been imposed on the port of Chalkida since 2004. I do not know in this space because the issue has not been raised and only recently, but in any case, we will now be responding. But it's not just the port of Halkidiki. They're more ports. I'll tell you. You are also opposed to the European directive. The European directive to which you refer concerns tolls. It does not concern port uses and port needs and cannot be compared. I have studied it, and at least at the moment I think the wording of the directive is quite clear. I'm staying in this and I'm going to get the rest of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I think that all the old people will agree that there should be uniform rules in all ports. If this end should be imposed there or elsewhere, because it should not be in some other ports. I imagine what the Minister is studying in this context, as he has said, will answer whether every factor appointed - we know how, Minister. You know I never chewed my words and paid for it. On the 5th day of the month, Mr. Minister, a complaint against me by Mr. Melissanidis for parliamentary scrutiny is being filed. I've said it here in the House before. Neither the government nor the then President of Parliament reacted, as I believe no one will react today. It's okay. Let him go. The people appointed know very well in small societies to whom the interests often obey. And it is incomprehensible a year later in Patras that the same administration - possibly elsewhere - has managed the properties of the Petroleum Patroleum as if they were its own, which manages the property, because you talked about the production activity of the ALLA. I know very well that you know very well and you have also been informed of many studies of where this money is going. How, he says, will circulate the MEDIA in the new port of Patras. Does anyone think there was no real provision like that in the new port? The advertising, who was with 'yes' with 'no' whose interests. After my last questions, Minister, instead of the OLAF of Patras responding, we have again had reactions from interests, from the outset and from the outset. Rejoice them and keep them the gentlemen "Platers". So and without shame to behave with the institutions, parliamentary control in this way. But I would like to say to you that, on the basis of a large shipping company which had many ships in the port of Patras a few years ago, it canceled such fees that OLAF had put under the presidency, Giannis Diaras. I say it to have been recorded and to take it into account, because you may not have to bear in mind - and it is not compulsory to have - that, by a court decision, OLAF has cancelled and, indeed, has lost substantial revenue. Minister, I believe that they are waiting today for you to hear from your lips, in your secondaryity, that you - if that is the case, of course, you should tell us - are listening to this request and you are adopting it. So it may be a matter of time, perhaps, after the withdrawal of this retrieval that those involved in transport have to pay. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity - and thank you for your tolerance, as much as you have shown other colleagues today - to say that it is not certain that these are always rewarding, even on the major issues of safeguarding. I think tomorrow we will discuss the problematic control of ship movements at the port of Patras. There they say it is a matter of time before a serious accident occurs, because the systems that you have just told us are not working. Finally, I wanted, Minister, to really take advantage of your presence here and to inform you by asking a timely question today that we are all exposed, the previous prime ministers, the current Prime Minister, you, us, those who said that a section of the sea front was provisionally granted to the Municipality of Patras and that would be a short time later. Minister, do you know that the Port Lord of Patras always sends the interrogator the Mayor of Patras? Boss, the place. He sends the Mayor of Patras to the interrogator often densely in the last few days, because he doesn't recognize that with that temporary concession he has the right to use the sea front. Minister, no one - and yet I, the Christian Democrat Party, and my other colleagues - can believe that this is a premise from the political leadership to tell the municipality that it is time to collect them, because the HICP has taken off its fingernails. I cannot believe it because, a month and a half ago, the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, told Patras that it would be excluded - and even specifically defined from this road to this one, that part of the sea front - from the appetites of some individuals, rather, who would like to see it coming out in the hammer along with the other silvers of the TIDE. I would point out, Mr President, this timely question, because perhaps the Minister does not know that the porter is showing an exaggerated zeal of such a zeal which exposes us all politically, first and foremost, the leading political leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u111	Mr Nicolopoulos, because you are indeed a pluralist figure, I have also met it in other cases, I have to answer a question and then another three - four emerge, so we have to ask the Bureau to multiply the time available for three or four, because otherwise it is not answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u112	Before he did, so he'll do it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Drizza, as you know, you are not obliged to answer the question put, unless you want to. You are not obliged to answer, but if you wish to do so, you will be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, both from respect for the procedure and to every Member, but also in the society that is watching us, when questions are asked, there must also be answers. It's not enough time. I will try as briefly as possible to give the answers. Indeed, Mr Nicolopoulou, I hear the voice of the motorists and assure you that I take very seriously what they have put in mind, which is why I am already coming here with a file of multipage on this issue. To say, however, that I am responding to their request - and indeed in the way they want - there must be a procedure of such a kind that no one really is wrong and that it is both global and fair and complete. I told you before: Motorists, productive activities and port agencies. It's not two distinct opposite things. And I mean just as the Piraeus Port Authority has such fees, it doesn't matter what each port is called and the Volos Port Authority and the Port Authority of Patras and the Port Agency of Heraklion. It doesn’t matter, they may even have them. The port of Chalkida is basically a commercial port. Its exclusive users are ships, wheeled means of transport, means of loading and all of this, i.e. heavy vehicles which cause a burden on the road, on the functions, on the services. It has a security code approved, and that's cost, and it doesn't matter if you go through a machine. The security systems have a lot of levels and each making use of the port services makes use of the security services on an object, do not underestimate it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In any case, however, with the data given to me at least, and I am constantly monitoring them, the restoration of the damage of the single beam in the port of Chalkida in facilities that are satisfactory - and the roadblock and the data are extremely satisfactory - I can assure you that I have also investigated this - the storage, electrical lighting, cleanliness, maintenance of installations amount to EUR 150,000 per year. Vehicles use the port. For all this revenue from these fees, which is also reported by motorists, it is about EUR 20,000 to EUR 25 000 per year. The Evia Port Authority is not the only case. Port agencies must organise the use of port services in such a way that they are productive, that is, the quality side cannot escape us. If he did not offer any service to understand it, he and the other ports. And that's why I told you right from the start, it's a weighting of goods. We will look at them all, we will see where the fees must be, where they must not be, where they must be reduced. In this case, you rightly said, it is EUR 500 a year, EUR 80 a month or EUR 5 a day on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u115	And their expenses, too, are to be seen in terms of assignments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u116	Yes, I mean that the cost does not need a person who has no frequent use of the port for all year round or for all month, can also, on a case-by-case basis, be used to pay 5 euros. There's flexibility. In any case, that is my answer, because I think that only that can be the discharge from every end of every port user. The port is also productive and must have resources. It doesn't have to be over-profit, obviously. He needs to be able to make new investments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u117	And not waste and remouilles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u118	Every infrastructure well, however, when it operates in a port, is to the benefit of the users of the port.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u119	Or epidemics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u120	Where there is such a matter, here we are. That is why we are specifically the government for that very reason. As far as the Port Authority is concerned, it is a mess to those who are accusing us of changing administrations so because we want and because we want to put our own people. In the case of the administrations of the port agencies, all the data have been carefully studied and it has been one of the reasons for the delay in replacing the administrations, where it is considered necessary to replace them. I assure you, and I inform you, that before the previous elections, as far as my competence and my opinion are concerned, the procedure has been completed. Things are moving. I think it is a matter of a few days' time, the process for various ports, including the Port Authority of Patras. Security has the port of Patras. No one may have any points, but we have very recently, in the previous months, in the first term of this government, in my term as Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs at the time, I had supervised all the procedures for the preparation and preparedness of the port of Patras, because then he received a check from the European Committee on Port Safety. Both the Ministry and the Agency and the port authorities did the best they could and indeed the control came to a very positive conclusion. The labels recorded do not, in particular, concern the operation of the port. It concerns operation as to whether some - not all - had qualified security officers and some other issues. And that's corrected. I would like to say, therefore, that we have not dealt with such a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u121	We have a question tomorrow. I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u122	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u123	Minister, you have answered many questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u124	Yeah, yeah. I shall conclude, Mr President. As regards the sea front, on the eve of the elections - not because it was the elections, but because it was ripe and prepared - the text, approved by the Prime Minister, was sent to the Municipality of Patras and the Committee of Race, in order to be consulted and on the basis of the opinions that will also be drawn up by the society of Patras, to come to the final plan and to get the process ahead, which is not easy, wants various stages, which we have pointed out in detail. Since the elections were held, there were many different, election-like, voices in opposition. We have sent a message that it would be better if this debate were not to take place in the pre-election period, because it would be subject to the election purposes. The election's over. Now we are waiting for the local community of Patras to send them and we are going to take the initiative to move this process quickly, to come to the plan in a uniform way - that is what the government wants, that is what the Prime Minister wants, that is the commitment - and to get the process ahead, which, as I said to you, is not a fast track process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u125	To the master of the port, will you give the instructions to stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u126	Please, Mr Nicholas, no more question has been answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u127	She's on the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u128	I have the political responsibility of the HQ, but I cannot get to service. When there's a specific issue, I'd be happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory students and schoolchildren and teachers - their attendants from the General School of Honour of Korinthia, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENTERPRISE VENIZELOS and were informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates the second Municipal Moschatos which participated in the "Democracy Workshop" educational programme organised by the Foundation of Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as in force, on 27-10-2015, a criminal case for those who have been involved since 2011 and until January 2015, Ministers for the Environment, Energy and Climate Change, etc. Tina Birbilis, Georgiou Papaconstantinou, Gregorios Tsalta, Evangelos Livieratos and Yianni Maniatis, and former Deputy Minister of State, Stavros Kalafatis. The first timely question under number 23/26-10-2015 second cycle of MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Akaterini Iglezi to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the coverage of the vacancies of teaching staff in the Halkidiki Primary Education Schools will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Also, the second question under number 32/26-10-2015 of the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Finance on the inability to supply ‘ROS’ machinery by small and medium-sized traders and professionals due to their debts to the Greek State, to the insurance funds and to the banks will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted Finally, the fourth question under number 29/26-10-2015 of the Second Cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of Special Education and Education structures will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Friday, 30 October 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 43/126-10-2015 by MP II of the New Democracy Georgios Koumoutsakos to the Prime Minister regarding the country's refugee - immigration policy. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 46/27-10-2015 of the current question by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the operation of the Management Bodies of Protected Areas. 3. The question by number 35/26-10-2015 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism regarding the country's development prospects. 4. The Question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the spread of LSD disease with serious consequences for domestic livestock production. 5. The 41/26-10-2015 topical question by the Member of Parliament at Attiki of the Potamio Mr. George Mavrotas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, with sports discrimination in the European Games in Baku, Azerbaijan and the subsequent benefits for the athletes involved. 6. The Question No 33/26-10-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the control of the movements of ships in the port of Patras. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on measures to protect the Hymettos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The Question by Mr Georgios Kasapidis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Kasapidis, Minister for National Defence, on the national pendingity of 7976 "attached" people in B. Continent in the 1940s. 3. - The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the actions and timetable for the inventory and restoration of the damage from the recent bad weather in Attica and the region in general. 4. The Question No 50-27-10-2015 by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the withdrawal of redundancies in the "BIS SA" Industry in the 1st Volos Industrial Area. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-29-S1-commons.u130	With the consent of the House at 12.33 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, October 30, 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
