ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 6-2-2015, the minutes of its 2nd session on Friday, 6 February 2015 (morning) concerning the election of President of Parliament were confirmed by the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering SPECIAL GUIDELINES OF THE BUILDING The subject of today's special agenda is the election of three Vice-Presidents from the first to a force of a Parliamentary Group, a Vice-President from the first to a power of a Parliamentary Group of Representation, a Vice-President from the second to a power of a Parliamentary Group of Representation, a Vice-President from the third to a power of a Parliamentary Group of the opposition, a Vice-President from the fourth to a power of a Parliamentary Group, two Quaestors from the first to a power of a Parliamentary Group, a Quaestor from the first to a power of a Parliamentary Group of Anti-Population, and four Secretaries from the first to a power of a Parliamentary Group of Parliament, one Secretary from the first to a power of a Parliamentary of opposition and one Secretary from the second to a power of a Parliamentary of opposition. All in all, namely, ladies and gentlemen, this evening the House will elect seven Vice-Presidents of the House, six Secretaries and three Quaestors. Under Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, these members of the Bureau are elected by four successive separate votes. The vote shall be taken by two ballots, it shall be secret and shall be held by the majority provided for in Article 67 of the Constitution. This means that it is necessary for each candidate to elect an absolute majority of the Members present, but it cannot be less than 1/4 of the total number of Members, that is, it cannot be less than seventy-five Members. I would like to ask for everyone's patience and cooperation. Nearly half the composition of the House is new MPs, they have been elected for the first time. The Rules of Procedure provide for four successive votes, which means a time-consuming, relevant procedure. However, it must be done in a formal manner so that the procedure can also be valid. I therefore propose that we proceed exactly as the Rules of Procedure say with the election of the first three Vice-Presidents at first reading of the list, the four Vice-Presidents at second reading of the list, the Quaestors at third reading and the Secretaries at fourth reading. I understand that this will be a suffering for everyone, and in a next debate we can see how this provision can be amended. However, at this stage it is the regulatory provision, which unfortunately binds us. Do you agree to move on?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u2	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u3	Please, Mr. Lafasan. (Noise in the Chamber)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u4	Madam President, we know the standard of the Rules of Procedure. However, because the procedure will be too long, can we, by unanimous decision of the House, go to a single vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u5	I propose this: As you can see, more than the ballots available to the House are the ballots. As I have heard, the House has eight ballots, which do not go all the way for posts. Unfortunately, that's what I heard. So the solution which I would suggest, in order to save time, is to proceed with two successive votes for the Vice-Presidents - the first and next four - and then add the election of Secretaries and Quaestors so that there can be the ballots. This means that we will save about an hour of process, I hope, with the cooperation of all of you. Are we in agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u6	Can't two votes be taken?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u7	At the moment the ballots are positioned in this way. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, would anyone want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u8	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u9	You're welcome, Mr. Varvichiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u10	Madam President, since there are eight ballots, why not proceed with the vote of the seven Vice-Presidents and then proceed to the vote of the Secretaries and Quaestors as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u11	If the House agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u12	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u13	Please, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u14	I do not know what was the case in the past, but because I think there are basic agreements on these votes, there could only be one vote. I'll tell you how.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u15	There are no ballots.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u16	There are balls. I'll tell you how. The three Vice-Presidents proposed by SYRIZA do not need to be in three different ballots. So, is there anyone who's going to vote for a Vice President from SYRIZA and won't vote for someone else? I therefore propose that a vote be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u17	The elementary and democratic procedure requires - it is also an explicit provision in the Rules of Procedure - that each post should be given a separate ballot and a ballot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u18	I mean, you're telling me it's more reasonable...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u19	It is not reasonable, but it is a point of order, as is set out in the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u20	The typical thing is that we have fewer polls than the votes and that the three hundred more names are called back and that we sit another two hours to make a vote because there is no one ballot?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u21	Mr Theodorakis, we hope that we will all agree that we will be sitting here for several hours to fulfil our democratic duty. I therefore propose that we agree with Mr Varvitsiotis' proposal for two votes, one for the Vice-Presidents and one for the Secretaries and Quaestors. In this way, we will also have the ballots which are sufficient and a procedure which is well-considered in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the decision of the House. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u22	We will therefore proceed to the first vote, which is a collapsing of the first two successive votes concerning the election of the seven Vice-Presidents of the Parliament. I would like us all to give the services of this House a little room for the rest of the four ballots to have the vote on the Vice-Presidents as a whole. I am going to inform you in the meantime of the procedure to be followed. I would ask the old MPs to let the new ones listen to the process so that we can all get acquainted with it. Each call shall be marked by the Vice-President to whom it corresponds. In the meantime, you can study the sixteen lists that must have already been distributed and the equal numbers of white lists. Each of you must have received sixteen votes. You have only received seven for the first vote. We'll give the Services the time they need. Check that you have received seven ballots for the seven seats of the Vice-Presidents and correspondingly a number of white ballots. If white or roll-calls with the names of candidates have not been distributed, I would ask the Services to take care of them, and in any case I know that there are both on the left side and on the right side white notes and ballots with the names of the candidates. As long as we give the Services time to respond to the decision we took a moment ago to co-chair the votes, I will read to you what proposals the parties have put forward, as the names of the candidates have been tabled, and then we shall proceed to the vote. For the post of the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Alexios Metropoulou has been proposed by SYRIZA. For the second Vice-President of the House, my colleague Mr. Ioannis Balafas has been proposed by SYRIZA. For the post of the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. Despina Charalabidou has been proposed by SYRIZA. For the post of First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis from New Democracy has been proposed. Mr Arvanitis - Avramis Michael from the People's Association - Golden Dawn has been proposed for the post of Vice-President of the Parliament. For the post of F' Vice-President of the Parliament, my colleague Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis from Potami has been proposed. The office of Z' Vice-President of the Parliament has been proposed by Mr. George Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece. As far as I can see, the agencies are ready. We will therefore proceed to the process. So there will be a list first for the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, and anyone who hears his name will come and cast the ballots of his preference. In the case of every ballot, it will either cast a ballot bearing the name of the colleague proposed for the post which corresponds to the ballot or white ballot in the respective ballot. On the list, Mr Olga Gerovalis from the Radical Left Coalition and Mr Emmanuel Konsolas from the New Democracy are invited. I would ask colleagues to come to the Chair. For the first poll, concerning the post of one Vice-President, Mr Dimitrios Gassis is called as a voter from the Radical Left coalition and Mr. Ioannis Antoniadis from the New Democracy. On the second call, concerning the post of 2nd Vice-President, Mr Christos Karayannides is called as a voter from the Radical Left coalition and Mr Apostolos Vesiropoulos from New Democracy. On the third poll, which relates to the post of the third Vice-President, Mr Ioannis Zerdelis is called as a voter from the Radical Left coalition and Mr Constantine Vlassis from the New Democracy. On the fourth poll, which concerns the post of First Vice-President, Mr Nikolaos Michalakis is called as a voter from the Radical Left coalition and Mr Stergios Giannakis from the New Democracy. On the fifth poll, which concerns the post of Vice-President, Mrs Aphrodite Stabulis is called for as a voter by the Radical Left coalition and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy. On the sixth poll, concerning the post of F' Vice-Chairman, Mrs Catherine Iglezi is invited as a voter by the Radical Left coalition and Mr Stefanos Gikas from the New Democracy. On the seventh call, concerning the post of Z' Vice-President, Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis is invited as a voter by the Radical Left coalition and Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis from New Democracy. Mr Konstantinos Zacharias in the first call, Mr Konstantinos Barkas in the second call, Mrs Eftathia Georgopoulos - Saltaris in the third call, Mrs Aphrodite Theopevtou in the fourth call, Mr Vassilis Hadjilambrou in the fifth call, Mrs Maria Triantafyllos in the sixth call and Mrs Eugenia Uunidou in the seventh call. In order to make it easier for the vote to be taken, I would ask those who sit in the first chairs to create room for the voters to sit in the first seats in each wing. Given the fact that the first two votes have been collated, and that there are seven ballots and an equal number of ballots, I would ask that there be a Parliament decision, according to which, if the ballots are found in another ballot corresponding to another post, they should be considered valid, because clearly this will be caused by a mistake. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u23	Therefore, with the unanimous decision of this House, we can continue the process. I would ask colleagues on the list to read on the list. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] [[CONCERNING THE DURATION OF VOICE]] Ladies and gentlemen, our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-two students and students and eight educational attendants from the 5th High School Ptolemaida (A' Department). We welcome you to the work of the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Kollia has sent a letter on "Election of Vice Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries", in which she states: 'For personal reasons, Madam President, I will not be present in today's vote. Maria Kollia - Charuha, MP Serres."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-six students and students and four educational sessions from the 5th High School Ptolemaida (B'). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask colleagues on the list to repeat their reading of the list as regards those who did not vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u25	Please, is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The vote is adjourned on the seven Vice-Presidents of Parliament, and I would ask the House to agree to proceed as follows: The main voters to count and sort the ballots and export the result. Parliament's services ensure that the polls, after they have been empty, are prepared for the next two votes, i.e. the compact votes for the three Quaestors of the Parliament and the six Secretaries. At the same time, with the list for the third and fourth ballots, which will be produced by a list, the voters will count on the ballots. I would like to inform you that the votes, as decided, by a unanimous decision of this House and after an interactive debate, require nine ballots and Parliament, as the Services inform me, only has eight transparent ballots and one wooden ballot. So I would ask you to consent so that the ninth can be filled with the wood found in the House. I think that, when we find out and what are the practical issues that arise through top-level procedures - because the Bureau of Parliament is a top-level vote - we can agree that we will also make the necessary modifications and provisions in order to carry out the votes in the most effective, smooth, transparent and democratic manner. With the consent of this House and in order to have the necessary time in the Services to prepare themselves, I invite you to hold a 15-minute adjournment of the sitting, if there is no objection. Does the House agree:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u26	The House has given its consent. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for 15 minutes, during which voting and preparation for the next vote will normally proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Before we proceed to vote on the election of the Quaestors and the Secretaries, I consider - by interpreting the feelings of this House - that I must express our full support and solidarity with our fellow citizens in Evros who are being tested these hours. We continue with the vote on the election of Quaestors and Secretaries. I am recognizing to you the posts proposed for which they are elected. The Quaestor's post by SYRIZA has been proposed by Mr. Athanasios Nassos and Mr. Panzas Giorgos. The position of Dean from New Democracy has been proposed by Mr Kokodimos Konstantinos. For the SYRIZA Secretary's post, Mrs Dritsel Panayota, Mrs Jika - Kostopoulou Danai, Mr Zanna Zesis and Mr Tsirkas Vassilis have been proposed. The position of the Secretary from New Democracy has been proposed by Mr Kefalonianis Ioannis. Mr Kouzilos Nikolaos has been proposed for the position of the Secretary from the People's Association - Golden Dawn. You must all have nine ballots in your hands - each roll-call lists each of the names and the corresponding posts on which colleagues are proposed - and also nine white roll-calls. I would remind you that in the absence of a ninth transparent poll, such as the rest, the wooden cellar has been placed for the first of the posts, for the position of a Dean by SYRIZA. We shall proceed to the vote in exactly the same way as the vote in the first stage. Therefore, colleagues Mr Olga Gerovasili will be present on the list by SYRIZA and Emmanuel Consolas from New Democracy. They are now called as voters for the first poll, which concerns the post of the first Quaestor, Mrs Vassilis Katrivanou by SYRIZA and Mr Kostas Karamanlis of Achilles by the New Democracy. The second call, concerning the post of the second Dean, is called by Evangelia Ammanatidou - Paschalidou by SYRIZA and Christos Kelles by New Democracy. On the third poll, which concerns the post of the third Quaestor, Stefanos Samoilis is called by SYRIZA and Niki Kerameos from New Democracy. For the fourth poll, concerning the post of the First Secretary, Mr Stavros Arachovitis is called by SYRIZA and Mr Timoleon Couspiles from New Democracy. For the fifth call concerning the post of the second Secretary, Mr Stavros Gregory is called by SYRIZA and Mr Dimitris Kyriazides from New Democracy. For the sixth call concerning the post of third Secretary, Mr. Nicos Manios is called by SYRIZA and Mr. Christos Boukoros from New Democracy. On the seventh call, concerning the post of fourth Secretary, Mrs Nina Kasimatti is called by SYRIZA and Georgia Martinou from New Democracy. On the eighth call concerning the post of the fifth Secretary, Mrs Maria Theleritis is called by SYRIZA and Mrs Anna Karamanlis from New Democracy. For the ninth call, for the post of the sixth Secretary, it is called Alexandros Meikopoulou from SYRIZA and Mrs Fotini Arabatzis from New Democracy. The former presidents of the Committees will remain, and because we now have nine ballots - and in the previous vote we had seven - there are two other chairmans of committee chairmen. For the eighth call, Evangelos Diamantopoulos and for the ninth call Mr. Ioannis Michelogannakis is named Evangelos Diamantopoulos. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the vote to come to the ballots to start the vote. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u28	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The vote is therefore adjourned, and I would ask the voters and the chairmen of the Committees to take the counting and sorting of the ballots and extracting the result. With the completion of the counting of the sorting and the export of result for this vote, the result of the individual votes will be announced in total. In the meantime, I inform you that Mrs Theodoras Bakoyannis has received a letter from the Bureau which informs us that she will be absent from the plenary session of the Greek Parliament on 6, 7 and 8 February 2015 as she will be in Munich to participate in the Munich Security Conference and the OSCE Committee for Distinguished Persons on European Security.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of the secret ballot for the election of the Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries of this House. There were 282 Members present in the vote, which means that the necessary absolute majority of the Members present are 142 Members. The results shall be as follows: For the post of I' Vice-President, proposed by Alexis Metropoulou, 282 Members voted and the proposed one took 229 votes in favour, 52 white and 1 void. Mr Alexis Metropoulou, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is therefore elected to the post of First Vice-President of the Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of 2nd Vice-President of the Parliament, for which you were proposed and which is Mr Yiannis Balafas, 282 MPs voted, and the proposer received 235 positive votes and 47 whites. Mr Yiannis Balafas, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is therefore elected to the office of the second Vice-President of the Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of 1st Vice-President, for which Mrs Despina Charalabidou was proposed, 282 Members voted and Mrs Charalabidou received 229 votes in favour, 50 white and 3 void. So Mrs. Despina Charalapidou, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is elected to the office of the third Vice-President of the Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of First Vice-President of the Parliament, for which Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis was proposed, 282 Members voted and Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis received 247 votes, 34 white and 1 invalid. So Mr. Nikitas Kaklamanis, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is elected to office of the fourth Vice-President of the Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of Vice-President of Parliament, for which Mr Michael Arvanitis - Avramis was proposed, they voted 266 MPs. This means that the absolute majority is 134 Members. Mr Michael Arvanitis - Avramis received 37 votes in favour and 197 white lists were recorded and 32 void. Therefore, Mr Michael Arvanitis - Avramis, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is not elected because he has not gathered the majority required under Rule 67 of the Constitution and Article 8(2) of the Rules of Procedure. For the post of F' Vice-President of Parliament, for which Mr Spyridon Lykoudi was proposed, 282 Members voted and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis received 210 votes in favour, 63 white and 9 void. So Mr Spyridon Lykoudi, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, is elected to the office of F' Vice-President of the Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, for which Mr. George Lambroulis was proposed, 274 MPs voted. The absolute majority therefore is 138 Members. Mr. George Lambroulis received 235 votes. 38 whites were found and an invalid ballot. Therefore, Mr. George Lambroulis, according to the Constitution and the Rules of the Parliament, is elected as Z' Vice-President of the Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of Quaestors, first of all, I would like to say that different votes have been recorded for each poll, so I would mention one by one, so that it is clear. For the Quaestor's post from the first to the force of a parliamentary group, the nomination of Mr. Nasus Athanasios voted 243 MPs. So the absolute majority of the Members present are 122 Members. Mr Athanasios received 216 positive votes and 27 white ballots were found. So Mr. Nasos Athanasios is elected to the post of the Quaestor of the Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of the Quaestor also from the first to a power of Parliamentary Group, for the nomination of Mr George Panjah voted 238 Members. The absolute majority of Members present are therefore 120 Members. Mr. Panjas received 204 positive votes, 32 white ballots and 2 void. So Mr. Panzas is elected to the post of the Quaestor of the House. [[Applause]] For the post of the Quaestor from the first to the power of Parliamentary Group of Representation, the nomination of Mr. Konstantinos Koukodemou voted 243 MPs. So the absolute majority of the Members present are 122 Members. Mr. Konstantinos Koukodemou received 215 votes in favour, 27 white lists were found and 1 void. So Mr. Koukodemos is elected to the post of the Quaestor of the House. [[Applause]] For the post of First Secretary, 238 Members voted. The absolute majority of Members present are therefore 120 Members. Mrs. Panayota Dritsel received 216 positive votes and 20 white lists were found and 2 void. So Mrs Panayota Dritsel is elected First Secretary of Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of Second Secretary of Parliament, 234 MPs voted. The absolute majority therefore is 118 Members. Mr Xanna received 212 votes. 21 white lists were found and 1 null. Therefore, Mr. Xannas is elected as the Second Secretary of the Parliament. [[Applause]] On the position of the Third Secretary of Parliament, 243 MPs voted. The absolute majority is therefore 122 votes. Mrs Dani Jeka - Kostopoulou received 220 votes in favour. 22 white lists were found and 1 null. So Mrs. Danai Jeka - Kostopoulou is elected as First Secretary of the Parliament. [[Applause]] On the position of the Fourth Secretary of Parliament, 240 Members voted. The absolute majority of the votes present are therefore 121. Mr Vassiliou Tsirkas received 213 votes. 23 white lists were found and 4 void. So Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas is elected as First Secretary of the Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of First Secretary of Parliament, 243 MPs voted. The absolute majority is therefore 122 votes. Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis received 222 votes. 19 white lists were found and 2 void. Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis is therefore elected Secretary of Parliament. [[Applause]] For the post of F Secretary of Parliament, 228 Members voted. The absolute majority is therefore 115 votes in favour. Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos received 33 votes in favour. 165 white ballots were found and 30 void. Therefore, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, he is not elected as F Secretary-General of the Parliament. According to these results, I would like to congratulate those elected to the posts for which it has been successful, to welcome them to the formation of the Bureau and to observe in the spirit of the previous points we have made, that the Rules of Procedure of this House have been made with a view to the existence of two, three and with a very great deal of care for four parliamentary groups. This House has more parliamentary groups than is provided for in the Rules of Procedure and, in the context of the examination of the Rules of Procedure, we should ensure that the Bureau and the individual committees are represented. Ladies and gentlemen, since I congratulate those who have been here, I would ask you to authorize the Bureau to ratify the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u30	The requested authorisation was therefore granted. I would like to inform you, in order for all Members to know and prepare themselves, that programming has been carried out so that on Monday morning, and on Tuesday morning, as well as on Tuesday morning, they can speak as many fellow Members as possible. On Sunday, then, February 8 at 19.00 we will have the Prime Minister's reading of the Programming Declarations. On Monday, 9 February 2015, at 11 a.m., the debate will take place on the government's Programming Declarations. On Tuesday, February 10, 2015, 11.00pm will continue the debate on the government's Programming Declarations and the vote will be held on the Parliament's vote of confidence in the government. I would also like to inform you that the vote will start at midnight. I would like to express my great satisfaction at the fact that all the Members of the Bureau who have been appointed have received a very broad majority. That is what I think is a very good omen for the further course of this parliamentary term. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S2-commons.u31	With the agreement of the House at 23.10 p.m., the meeting on Sunday, February 8, 2015, at 19.00 p.m. on the subject of the House's work is to read the State's Schedule Declarations by the Prime Minister, according to the special agenda distributed.
