ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the news sheet on Thursday, 10 December 2015. A. FURTHER QUESTIONS (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 254/7-12-2015 topical question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the publication of the Managing Scandal to the Hellenic FESTIVAL SA body. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 241/1-12-2015 of the Greek Parliamentary I Athens, Dora Bakoyannis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the restoration of railway communication at the border of Greece - Macedonia and the unobstructed transit of goods. 3. The Question No 251/4-12-2015 by MP Mr. II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on "the separatist activities and cooperation with Ankara Muslims of Thrace". 4. The question by number 249/4-12-2015 of the F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy regarding the subsistence of the Dodecanese Port Corps. 5. The Question No 255/7-12-2015 by MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies of workers in the Milk Industry Xanthi AE "RODOPI". 6. The 245/3-12-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the "Potamos" Mr Spyridon Danellis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the adoption and promotion of the incineration of the dead by the state. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 248/4-12-2015, by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vasiliou Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the threatened ratification of the cut-off in the event of the consumer being unable to repay. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 253/7-12-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, regarding the doctors of P.E.Y. And the fired U.S. doctors. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 244/3-12-2015 topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on Greece's risk of exit from the Schengen Treaty. 3. The 246/3-12-2015 topical question by MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PA.S.O.K. - P.M.A. Mr Ioannis Manniatis, Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the problems of the Athens Urban Transport Organisation. 4. The 256/7-12-2015 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the transfer of workers to the Greek Horse racing organization "PIO S.A.", according to Law 4326/15. 5. The 252-7-12-2015 topical question by MP Mr. II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the delay in granting the heating allowance. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Dora Bakoyannis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning the revision of the Schengen system. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation PA.SO.K. - P.M.A. Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou, Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the completion of the project "The Heraklion - Mesara and Panormos - Eanthi" in Heraklion. 3. The question by number 597/27-10-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Health, on the closure of the Centre for Physical and Medical Rehabilitation (KEOF) Rethymnon, due to a lack of staff. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs Emmanuel Konsolas and Apostle Besiropoulos are requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad from Tuesday, December 8th to Wednesday 9th. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and two teachers from the 1st Elementary School of New Ionia. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle of Articles and on the whole draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Principle of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Australia on the settlement of issues relating to entry visas for youth mobility (Work and Holiday Visa)’. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. As far as I know, the Communist Party of Greece had voiced objection and the Golden Dawn Party had reservations. So a colleague from each of these two parties will take the floor for five minutes, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. By way of derogation, because it is a question of democrat Hellenism, if a colleague from the other parties wants to speak for two or three minutes, even though the Rules of Procedure do not provide for it, because the other parties voted in favour of it. Mr Nicholas Kouzilos has spoken since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are talking about the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Hellenic Republic and the Australian Government, which aims to familiarize each other with new Greeks and Australian eighteen to thirty one year olds, mainly on culture, language and society. As we told you in committee, it is worth seeing, after the five hundred visas that will be given and the twelve months that will pass, how many young people, who will have gone to work in a scientific or research centre, will remain and ask for work in Australia. Because that is how we mainly have the bleeding of Greek young scientists at the moment. Most of us have discussed this in the Commission and we do not need to say any more. The conditions laid down, however, such as the age of eighteen to thirty-one years, the possession of a valid passport, the sufficient resources for personal expenses, good health and behaviour are also conditions for anyone who wants to work in Greece. Thousands of illegal immigrants, refugees and immigrants are coming to Greece - whatever term you want to take - and these conditions must be accepted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to permanentize them in Greece. Unfortunately, I believe that, after 12 months and after that exchange, several young people - mainly young scientists - will be working in Australia because there is no vision and hope in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kouzeli, are you finally keeping the reservations, or are you expecting the Minister's answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u6	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u7	In fact, we need to know about the Minutes. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Katsotis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. In the committee we discussed this issue of ratifying the memorandum of understanding between the Greek Government and the Australian Government on entry visas and youth mobility, it was an approach that said that anything that creates solidarity and friendship between peoples is in a positive direction. Of course, and you cannot disagree with that. But are this convention really so innocent of this memorial of understanding? Does he only have that goal? It is known that the Greeks who live in Australia have expressed themselves positively and negatively on the subject of this convention. I will stand up to those who speak negatively about this convention and say that they are not innocent, saying that youth mobility is another phrase, anyway - it covers the expression - the barbarity of the system, which wants to ensure cheap and qualified labour force, above all by pressing on unemployment and the crisis in other countries, so that monopolistic groups can ensure even more profits. So let's see where this convention is going today. It runs into the unemployment that exists in our country and that many live under very difficult conditions, especially young people whose unemployment is almost 60%. In addition, there is mobility within the country, for which there has been a lot of discussion in previous years. It is characteristic that many business groups say we have difficulty in mobility and that young people do not leave their town, from their home country, because there is family. The family, he says, is a factor that prevents mobility. They call this the foundations of business groups. There is also self-reliance, which has been said in committee. So someone wants mobility. So the business groups want it, so that they can ensure flexible staff anywhere in the country, in the European Union - which is the official policy of the European Union - and now, of course, on all continents. Because capital is multinational, where it needs to be, it wants even cheaper labour. It is well known that the situation in both Australia and Greece with youth unemployment is not easy. Here we have 60% unemployment, while in Australia young people's unemployment is over 20% and working conditions, both here and Australia, are not the ones that had won the labour movement a few years ago, with full and stable work, with collective agreements, with fixed daily work, with insurance and all that most of us have known in the past few years. Nowadays, working conditions are far from perfect. We are talking about undeclared work and work without collective agreements, but with individual contracts, that is to say the company giving the worker what it wants after endless hours of work. And it is known that around immigration and mobility has been created, if you want, a very large grid of businesses, so-called 'immigration agents', who are treasured by the need of young people, workers, people to survive by looking for a job. Three and a half thousand such "migration agents" operate in Australia, with a very large turnover on the slave trade. Are you going to tell me, this mobility is a slave trade? I also told the committee that young people are coming from England and France, who work and are on holidays, as they say, while there are offices that change these young people, that is to say they bring new people when the period that they have agreed and is literally here with a dish of food and a bed is over. They work endless hours and they give a lot of profits to hoteliers. Is it going to be the same here? What is this contract? It's a contract that says it's business and holidays or holidays and work. So what do the Australian young people want to come here to Greece? What are they gonna do? They will work at hotels this way and they will also make their holidays, they will also meet our country. But can't people who can do the holidays otherwise? We say, of course, that holidays must be a right. But can't they take a different vacation? Is this contract to be used here and there by business groups for cheap labour? But you're going to tell me: These five hundred are the ones that will secure cheap labour power? Yes, but with regard to contracts, Minister, if you have seen in recent years how many transnational agreements there are with other countries for apprenticeships for young people. Here in Greece all hotels are full of students. The previous government itself has signed a 17% staff agreement to practice. I mean, what? Work at 200 euros endless hours and ensure profits at the firm. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Will that be the same? It'll be the same. Is there a condition here that young people will work under the collective agreement? There's no such term. It doesn't exist, so it's not guaranteed. What's it ensured? A very cheap labour force is being guaranteed again for this world that will be moved, looking forward to a job that can be secured in Australia - our young people are talking about - perhaps after going on a permanent visa if their employer does. Therefore, bearing in mind all this and all this practice that has been followed for so many years, we are voting 'no' in this Memorandum of Understanding between the Greek Government and the Government of Australia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u9	Good. Thank you, Mr Katsotis. As has been promised, I will ask a party from your position if he wishes to speak for three minutes. Mrs Vagonakis, you asked me for the floor. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between Greece and Australia has always been characterised by heartache, based on deep historical and homogeneous ties. The successful route for decades of the semester has contributed to the formation, maintenance and further enhancement of relations between the two countries. How else would it be, since Greece and Australia are associated with strong historical ties, because of the common struggles of the two peoples during World War II and especially during the Battle of Crete? As MP Chania, I am well aware of this, seeing the participation and continued presence of delegations from Australia every year during the events for the Battle of Crete. Therefore, any institutional initiative, such as the one we come to discuss today, which, as a goal, aims to strengthen relations between the peoples, can only be a welcome event from the leadership of the place. These initiatives should reflect and strengthen the high level of our bilateral relations as well as our good cooperation within international organisations. It is also welcome that the ratification of this memorandum of understanding is a product of painful and long-term efforts by the Greek family of Australia. We must recognise and highlight this, since the persistence and efforts of the family have taken place and have finally led to the signing of this memorandum in Campera in May 2014 and now comes to ratification in the Greek Parliament. I am opposed to the articles. I would like to end this point: during the debate in the committee there was concern about whether this Memorandum of Cooperation could be used as an opportunity for greater migration of young people to Australia. What one can note is that this is not solved by bans, but by changing the social conditions and the relocation of the Greek economy and by changing internal policy in general. This is the only way to tackle unemployment and even youth unemployment. That is where the current government bears weight, and this should be our plan for productive reconstruction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, today's bill aims elsewhere: it aims to bring peoples and cultures closer together. It has a lot to offer in the case of peace and mutual understanding, which is what is at present being called for. In conclusion, this is essentially a first step, which under other circumstances could be much more targeted. And I mean it will be much more pleasant to strengthen these communications attempts and to enrich them with multi-thematic and bi-sided approaches. Based on all the above, as SYRIZA, we recommend the adoption of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u11	From New Democracy, Mrs. Antonio, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u12	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u13	From Golden Dawn Mr. Kouzilos was placed. From the PASOK Democratic Compact - DMAR we have been informed that Mrs Kefalidou is coming. Mr Katsotis of the Communist Party of Greece was placed. Mr. Lykoudis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u14	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u15	Of the Independent Greeks Mr Katsikis has the floor as rapporteur for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on Monday, December 7th, we examined in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the draft law on: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Australia, on regulating issues relating to entry visas for the social status of young people (Work and Holiday Visa), signed in Cameroon, Australia, on 14 May 2014. Relations between Greece and Australia are characterized by heartbeat, based on historical ties, due to the common struggles of the two peoples during World War II and especially during the Battle of Crete. The successful route for decades of the semester has contributed to the formation, maintenance and further enhancement of Australia's relations with Greece. It is estimated that the total number of our relatives in Australia is seven hundred thousand and are now an integral part of Australia's society. The high level of our bilateral relations is reflected in frequent exchanges of high-level visits, in the rich contractual framework, covering a wide range of cooperation, as well as in good cooperation within international organisations. This memorandum will provide the opportunity to stay, work and learn the culture and culture of distant Australian five hundred young people and young people from Greece every year. It concerns young people from eighteen to thirty-one years old, as we have said, who are interested in staying in Australia and provide for five hundred multiple entry visas or temporary residence permits for the 12-month period to be granted from each country to nationals of the other per year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] It is worth noting - and here are the two points on which, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to a certain degree to both the contributors - that Australia has concluded similar agreements for several years with dozens of other countries and only with Greece each time there was a problem, so that agreement has not been reached so far. The second point, which I would like to stress as a member of the Committee on Disciplinary Hellenism, is that the signing of this memorandum is an initiative from the Greek community and is expected to bring the two friends, Greece and Australia closer together. On the basis of this Memorandum of Understanding, the young people of the two countries will gain significant experience and better understand the trends and demands of the labour market. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of the bill and we will support any initiative to strengthen Greece's bilateral relations with other countries in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, will you give me the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u18	I asked you before. I'll give you three minutes, and if you don't use them, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u19	We all know that in sanctions, usually, those who support...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u20	You weren't inside. I said, by way of derogation from 108, if a colleague from each party wants to speak for three minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u21	You did well. I wouldn't talk, but since colleagues talked...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u22	You have the floor, Mr. Lykoudi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u23	I would like to say a few words, mainly to justify our vote in the bill. Anyone facing this draft law that ratifys the Memorandum as an opportunity to resolve issues relating to youth unemployment or much more to their prospects, I think it is wrong. That is not the ambition of this memorandum, as anyone who reads it understands. I think that at a time when, as I have said in committee, tensions are increasingly growing, at a time when very fierce civil conflicts and confrontations, which reach the limits of military interdependence between countries, are constantly present, initiatives such as the one that develops a transnational relationship that creates conditions of solidarity, friendship, mutual understanding and contact between young people in various countries, can only be a positive step, which one needs to address with the corresponding positive attitude. That is why we are voting in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u24	So that we don't ruin the show, I'll come back after asking Mr. Tasoula and Mr. Loverdos if they want to take the floor. Mr. Carras, do you want the floor for three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u25	For thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u26	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, thank you. We will be voting in favour of the draft law, because Australia is indeed an important country in the region of Eastern Asia. There are very close ties between Greece and Australia because of the great homogeneity there exists. We believe, therefore, that this bill, in addition to the mobility of young people which it introduces, will strengthen the links between the two countries and for one additional reason: our relatives in Australia are already going through the second and possibly third generation, which means that a removal starts between not only the generations, but between the states. We therefore consider it an important step to promote the country's international relations. At this point I wanted to stand, and thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Tasoula has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, it is clear that the New Democracy is voting for the bill, as the rapporteur, Mrs Kefaliannis, has said, and has had the honour of signing this memorandum of cooperation with that great country on the other hand in Australia. It is very important that the parameter favours youth mobility. And by favouring the mobility of young people who know each other's cultures and ways of living, our country has the opportunity to promote through this acquaintance and its national issues. And we've always been interested in Australia having her on our side in such initiatives. I take this opportunity from this parameter of the promotion of issues that are generally of interest to us through Australia, to remind you, as the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs here, who has a co-responsibility on this issue, that the initiative of the great publicity we had last year to reunite the Parthenon sculptures, came from the Commission in favour of reunification of the Parthenon Sculptures in Australia. They mobilized a large law firm, which came to Greece with representatives. We had a huge publicity. The reward was paid by Greek residents abroad, who does not want publicity about his name for this noble patriotic gesture and the country received a major legal study on its legal rights internationally and internationally for reunification of the Parthenon sculptures. Yesterday, in this building, the Minister of Culture, in a detrimental and petty way - if I may, he said that this issue has been closed and that Greece will not resort to an international court, because there is a risk of losing the case. There was no reason for the Minister for Culture to make such a advance. We did not commit ourselves to resorting to an international court. We, with the help of a anonymous donor, a Greek foreigner who has the old patriotic culture of the benefactors, ensured a huge, worldwide publicity last year on this issue, in favour of reunification of sculptors and was a weapon in our hands. And publicity and opinion were arguments. It will allow me to read what happened at the time in the British Parliament, when we and UNESCO...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u30	Briefly, however, because it has nothing to do with the issue we are discussing, beyond the sponsor of the Greek Australian.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u31	No, no. He's not a Greek Australian. He's Greek!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u32	Oh, like you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u33	‘Embassy of Greece, London, October 16, 2014. Department of Foreign Affairs, E1 Address, Ministry of Culture notification. Parliamentary question in the House of Communities about sculptors of Parthenon. The question is then forwarded to the Member of the Liberal Democrats and President of the Commission Marbles Reunited, Mr Andrew George, concerning a British attitude, with regard to a UNESCO proposal to take the role of ombudsman for resolving a question of returning the Parthenon sculptures. It is noted that the State Secretary for Culture, Mrs Grant, in response, states that she is studying this proposal. It is worth noting that in the context of a debate on this parliamentary question, MP Andrew George argued that the exhibition of stolen marbles in the British Museum is a shame for the United Kingdom. At the same wavelength he moved and MP of the Labour Party, Mr Jeremy Gorpin, who received the floor, arguing that the sculptures were stolen from the people of Greece and should therefore be returned." Ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason to show such pettyness and pettyness for government initiatives which are not ours. Samaras government has taken a big initiative...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u34	Finish it, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u35	...global publicity about the return of the marbles, and it was exaggerated that this case, if it goes to an international court, is lost. There was no reason to do it. We are giving arguments to the other side for no reason. I think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be able to assist the Ministry of Culture in addressing such a critical issue more wisely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. Mr Loverdos has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Balta's statement was impressive yesterday. I take the floor of what Mr Tasoula said to supplement what he said about marbles - the name he gave them - is the wrong kindergarten. And he's a Minister of Culture! It is the same decency as the Prime Minister's mistake, who raised the question of the continental shelf we have with the Turks, the only issue we have in our sea as the Aegean topic. Do all of these people need education from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? If a diplomat had spoken to you on a bilateral Aegean theme with Turkey, he would have been fired immediately. The Prime Minister has immunity? Such a mistake is Mr Balta's mistake. Mr President, in committee Mrs Kefalidou, with an excellent speech, had argued in favour of our vote in favour. Our vote is positive. What you are doing today is the best procedure and the best interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Because we have an open question of changing Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in fact your practice on the substance of a more correct application of the Procurement Regulation, we need an expressis verbis regulation in the Rules of Procedure, because this is a plenary. You cannot deprive Parliament of the right to speak even when the House agrees on many issues and you cannot only speak to those who have disagreed with the committee, because you are often forced, so as not to lose the advantage of speech in plenary, to express reservations to the committee. I do not hide from you that although we were wholeheartedly in favour of the ratification of this memorandum of cooperation, we thought that we should keep reservations about having the right to speak here. Why? Because politics is running, Mr President. Minister, I have asked you two, three questions about the refugee problem. The truth is, you're not competent, but you're a minister of this government. Today I update my questions. We read that the government is right to try to open the way for goods to the rest of Europe from FYROM.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u38	The railroadway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u39	The railroadway. And we read that the police are helping achieve this goal. But we were wondering - and we have told Mr Muzala in plenary, when he had arrived a few days ago - what is the plan for these people who will leave there. They're going back to Athens? Where are they going? And it was very right, honest, but unexpected, his answer to the existence of funds when he said that he did not know if he had funds. These people - have left, say, two, three thousand, in the report - will they come to Athens? Will they be here for how long? Where are you taking them? Do you have a plan? Mr. Muzalas said you had a plan. What's your plan? Here we read that the NRP in question is not being absorbed, that we did not get a single euro from the summit, that there is a great weakness in finding money, that the budget has no budget or expenditure on it. I ask you: Do you have something in mind or will you bring them to Athens and let them go? You mean to say you're unauthorized? I do. You are right, but you are a member of the government, it works in plenary and you must give us an answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u41	Mrs. Vaki, wait. I thank Mr Loverdos for his credit, but we need to make use of the three-minute time for this bill. I think that's the right thing to do. Because now Mrs Vaki wants the floor, and I know why she wants him to respond to the two parliamentary representatives who have spoken on a matter outside the bill. I won't deny her the reason. I will give her the floor for three minutes by way of derogation, but it closes the matter here. Before giving the floor to Mrs Vaki, however, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Organisation of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and their students and an educational attendant from the 1st Primary School of the Old Psychikos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is also known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the southern theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty members of the KAPI Argyroupolis, fine ladies and their companions. The House welcomes them. In order not to forget it, on behalf of all the Members of this House, to those of the Annas who celebrate, fellow Members and workers of this House, I wish for many years on behalf of all of you. Mrs Vaki has the floor for three minutes, and then we will close by giving the Minister the floor. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u42	I would like to say that it is regrettable at least to use a contract that strengthens and strengthens cultural and educational relations between states to make micro-policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u43	Is the right to speak sad?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u44	You're very welcome. You raised issues from the Parthenon Marbles to the refugee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u45	What can we do? This is the House. Where should we put them? On the way?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u46	You're welcome. I have a right to answer, Mr. Loverde. Let me finish for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u47	Don't do that. Mrs Vaki has listened without reacting both to Mr Tassoula and to Mr Loverdos. Carry on, Mrs. Vakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u48	On the issue of marbles, I will tell you that yesterday we had the Committee on Formatic Affairs - you can get the minutes of the committee - in which we voted to ratify a convention which provides for the protection and return of cultural goods. Now, if you want a statement from the Minister to interpret it as if no one wanted to return the Parthenon marbles, it's yours. As far as the refugee issue is concerned, I have to say that at a time, at a time when, at a time, there are attempts to foster democratic and solidarity with the refugee population, to opposition and micro-particular rhetoric, Mr Loverde, it harms the great patient right now, not only Europe but also the world, democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u49	Good. Thank you for not running out of time. I think the remarks were positive. I am not allowed to make any comment. I would just like for the Minutes of Parliament if the word 'Elginia' of the Parthenon has been said, that the Minister will correct it, because we will not make Elgin and the owner!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u50	It harms democracy, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Loverde, I said that. It is a matter for the Parliamentary Representative to inform the Minister and to make a correction. At this point I would like to inform the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against Members. We are not talking about today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u53	I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u54	As I claimed in my position that there are opposing opinions in Australia, for documentation, I am presenting in the minutes a communication of the "Travel Step".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Kattotis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to describe as a positive event the great acceptance which the Convention had from the vast majority of the parties in this House, which I had already pointed out in the committee itself. However, I will be allowed two, three thoughts and opinions. I am not going to go so far as to the essence of the contract, which we have discussed in detail in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the restoration of the country's international image, the strengthening of our national brand name, goes through the eyes of others, but above all, of those who know closest to Greece, culture, education and beauty. This opportunity to get acquainted with Greece offers the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Australia on the settlement of issues relating to entry visas for the mobility of the young 'Work and Holiday Visa', for which we are here today, much more when this convention allows for experiential knowledge of Greece for the young people of Australia and enables the communication of the Greek community living there with the metropolitan centre. At the same time, through the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding with the Australian Government, we are inaugurating a fixed channel of communication with its principles, investing in our cultural capital and resurrecting our long-term strong bilateral relations. In addition, mobility offers experience and knowledge that contributes to the professional and social integration of citizens in an internationalised and competitive environment. Of course, here I have to say that this contract was signed on 14 May 2014 by the then Minister of Tourism, Mrs Kefaliannis, as well as Australia. I would also like to say that Australia has already signed similar conventions since 1996 with too many countries and we have been late. Of course, it is the result of the initiatives and movements that Australia's counterparts have done since 2011, when the first official discussions began at the initiative of the Greek community of Melbourne and other homogenous organisations. On how this agreement was dealt with, I would like to submit the front page of the New World newspaper on the forthcoming ratification of the convention, which I had done in committee. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as this convention is concerned, I should like to say that we are aiming at strengthening the links between the two countries and seeking the extroversion of young people so that they know the customs of culture and the educational and working environment of the other country, which will lead to the promotion and improvement of mutual understanding between the young people of the two countries. With this Convention we allow our new Australian expatriates to come to Greece for a long time and to tighten their relations with the mother country and the young people to contact the other country, to know the educational and working environment. Ladies and gentlemen, the general assessment of the contract to be ratified, in addition to the specific benefits mentioned above, must be regarded as extremely positive for our national interests, as a new impetus is given to relations between Greece and Australia, especially if it is taken into account by other initiatives such as the Hellenic Initiative programme, which is a paid practice for new Greeks in Australian enterprises, as well as the 'Speak Greek in March' programme, carried out by the Greek communities in Australia, aimed at promoting and encouraging learning. I would like to comment on two points, which were raised by the speakers in particular, who objected and expressed reservations. First of all, for the laws to be applied to those who come for work. Work is the second factor. The first is recreation. It is not allowed all the time to work. Of course within the Convention, as to whether or not they have to comply with the laws of the country there is the following in 2b: ‘The nationals of the other Party who have entered the territory of the other Party having an entry visa for the mobility of young people must comply with the laws and regulations of the other Party’. The second point is that anyone using this visa may go back to 12 months, but it is not allowed to stay in Greece or Australia on a case-by-case basis beyond the allowed period of 12 calendar months on the basis of this visa, because there have been reports saying that this visa can be extended for after the year, so we are making it easier for Greeks to go to work there. Of course, not leaving the Greeks abroad depends on how the reforms and our own policies go. I think that the implementation of policies from now on, the creation of new jobs, the programmes and the development law which is planned and by the respective ministries will enable young people to attempt and work in our own country so that this bleeding of young people does not really exist and that our country is not empty. As regards, of course, the issues that have been raised and which are not my responsibility, the opinions have been heard. It's legitimate that they sound like this. However, I believe that the government itself has the procedures whereby it will respond to both Mr Loverdos and Mr Tasoula on the issues you have raised. Finally, I should like to thank you again very much for the great consensus of the House. I think it is a good start on matters that help our country to get that consensus. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby terminated: ‘Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Australia on regulating issues relating to entry visas for youth mobility (Work and Holiday Visa)’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u58	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u59	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u60	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Australia on the settlement of issues relating to entry visas for youth mobility (Work and Holiday Visa)’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u61	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of this sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u62	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept this point to interrupt the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u63	We are therefore adjourned and rejoining the sitting at 13: 00, on the subject of this House's work: a special agenda, debate and decision on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated and we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Debates and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 43A and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Panagiotis Kammenos and Nikolaos Michaloliakos. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 3-12-15, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Panagiotis Kammenos should not be removed. The report was announced by the competent Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 3-12-15, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that the immunity of Mr Nicholas Michaeliakos should be waived. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity or to the prosecution or prosecution or to the indictment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each fellow Member will list his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call vote as I have described you. The first case concerns Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. The second case concerns Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Oh, no. The second request, is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'yes', that is to say, 'yes' to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the waiver of immunity fills in next to the Member's name and in the 'no' column respectively 'no'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. Each fellow Member will list his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group and sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Then, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues, Anastasia Gara, from SYRIZA and Georgia Martin from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote, the votes will be counted by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the votes, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u65	The House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that the Bureau has received letters, fax numbers or fax Members, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the '1974' training programme, the restoration of the Republic', organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, ten students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th General High School in Hailland. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, there is a request from the colleague Mrs. Nikos Kerameos, as granted her leave of absence abroad for personal reasons on December 14, 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u66	The licence is approved. Have a nice trip. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament are invited on the list. Panagiota Dritsel by SYRIZA and Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Nemea Corinth School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Alexios Tsipras, Christou Manda and Ioannis Theopharyktos, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present, they would vote on the lifting of immunity of MP Nikolaos Michalliakos and on the lifting of immunity of MP Mr Panagiotis Kammenos would vote 'no'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but are not counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, before I announce the result of the vote, there is a request for permission from Parliament's work. MP Argolidas of Democratic Association Mr.Ioannis Maniatis seeks permission to move abroad for the period from 14-12-2015 to 15-12-2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u71	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members. A total of 203 Members voted. On the case of Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, in favour of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NA', they voted 21 Members. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 157 MPs. They voted for 25 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor for the waiver of immunity is therefore rejected. In the case of Mr Nicholas Michaloliakos, in favour of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 195 MPs. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 6 Members voted. They voted for 2 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor for the waiver of immunity was therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-09-S1-commons.u73	With the consent of the House at 14.36 minutes the sitting is closed for Thursday 10 December 2015 at 9.30 a.m. on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
