ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC HORIZATION OF THE BULLETIN PLACE Discussion on the Government's Schedule Declarations. Before I remind you of the procedure that we are going to follow today, I have the honour to announce that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st Koropiou High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, on a point of order, I would remind you that the debate on the Schedule Declarations will take place in accordance with Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure, together with analogous application of Rules 96(2) and 97 which govern the debate on the bills, in accordance with the more specific decisions we have taken unanimously yesterday. So, as we decided unanimously yesterday, there will be a first-class seven-priority speakers, which will include one MEP from each parliamentary group. This is so that all parties can have a first placement before entering the circles of speakers. The MPs notified by the parties about this first circle of speakers are: From SYRIZA are Mr. Dimitris Vitsakis, from New Democracy Mr. George Koumoutsakos, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Kashidiaris, from Potamis Antigoni Lyberakis, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitris Kammenos and from PASOK Mr.Gregorakos. I would also like to inform you that the parties have submitted lists of speakers, as provided for in Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure. These speakers, as set out in the Rules of Procedure and as decided unanimously yesterday, will precede the speakers who will be registered with the electronic system. Those who wish to take part in the debate and their name are not included in the lists of their parties or if their party has not given a list, they will be registered with the electronic system, namely their card, from the start of the speech of the first speaker and until the end of the speech of the seventh speaker, as we unanimously decided yesterday. A single list of Members will then be drawn up in order to respect the proportion of parliamentary power in representing parties with circles of speakers. Each cycle will consist of thirteen MPs, involving five MPs from SYRIZA, three MPs from New Democracy, one MP from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, one MP from the Potami, one MP from the Communist Party of Greece, one MEP from the Independent Greeks and one MEP from PASOK. This is the ratio, according to the fractions and the measure provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The MPs of the League will alternate with the MPs of the Opposition. The turn to follow is: A SYRIZA MEP, a MP from New Democracy, a MP from SYRIZA, a MP from the Golden Dawn, a MP from SYRIZA, a MP from the New Democracy, a MP from SYRIZA, a MP from the Potami, a MP from SYRIZA, a MP from the Communist Party of Greece, a MP from the Independent Greeks, a MP from PASOK and a MP from the New Democracy. The Ministers, as we decided yesterday, will be speaking under the Rules of Procedure for up to eighteen minutes, the Deputy Ministers for Foreign Affairs up to fourteen minutes and the Undersecretaries up to nine minutes. If there is a Minister's place after which a Member of the Council of Ministers is followed, there will be a rotation so that there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that we unanimously decided yesterday that parliamentary representatives could speak for up to twelve minutes in their prototypes, regardless of whether the leader of their party has been given a speech, six minutes in the second and three minutes in the third. I would also remind you that registered speakers have the right to take the floor for seven minutes, without the right to secondary education, as we decided yesterday. I would ask that, in order to avoid any involvement with the listing system on the list of speakers, do not place your card as those you wish to register, only when I tell you that the registration is starting now. For young people and new colleagues, I inform you that as long as there is an indication ‘Start of Registration’ you can also be entered when there is an indication ‘Start of Registration’ the list has been completed. With these introductory words we will now enter the first seven priority speakers. I will give the floor to Mr Dimitris Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u3	Please, Mr Mitsotakis, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, I think it would be useful for the House if you could communicate to us the planning of the talks of the Ministers, the Deputys, to the extent that you have already been notified, even in a few hours' time, for the better organisation of the debate. Also, if you can tell the House whether there will be a lunch break today. We should also take a decision at the end of the day, if we see that many Members have been registered, to limit Members' time, so that they can speak as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to inform Members of the list of speakers and of their speeches, as well as of the news report from the Channel of Parliament. In relation to your request for information on the speeches of the Ministers, it is a very reasonable request that I always have to say - the Members of Parliament were asking for the previous period in vain. The good example requires just to reverse the model. So I would like to tell you that the government has already informed us. The first three ministers to speak are the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Panoussis, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Paradise and the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Mardas. There is also full information on the order of the ministers. You will be notified to prepare your places. Mr. Dimitris Vitsats, speaker from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going directly to the point, stressing very much five points. Point 1 : The last five years in Greece in particular - as an 'experimental animal' - but also throughout Europe, are opposed to two sensible, two policies with very practical results. The first one, which is the applicable one, recovers and implements the SOS scenario of the super-profits of the few, the rescue scenario of the former system that sees the way out through extreme austerity, the dissolution of the social state, the commercialisation of social goods and public property, internal devaluation. The second looks at the way out into the real economy, the commitment to the service of basic social needs and the protection of the environment, the strengthening of social solidarity. We deny that in order to settle public finances and create a new social and economic cohesion, a'strategic' of one and a half million unemployed had to be created, bundled into about three hundred thousand businesses, living without shelter, without access to energy, and fed to social bundles of the municipalities and the Church. We think there is an alternative policy, another way. And he is indicated by our programme, as it is drawn up by the Programming Declarations. On the 25th of January this second political proposal had a historic victory. We intend, with the implementation of our programme, to make it a historic day. Point 2: I will not trouble you with the repetitions. Besides, the Prime Minister spoke in detail yesterday. But I want you to focus on the internal cohesion of our programme. The humanitarian crisis response programme favours the economic relaunch, which in turn strengthens work, in a context of the country's democratic and cultural regeneration. And all this in a single national and social project with a stable European orientation. With this plan, we say clearly who we are. We are with the poor, the unemployed, the new generation, the farmers, the small and medium-sized ones and the small ones. With this plan we reclaim the right of society to plan collectively, to record, process, implement, control and criticise. We are therefore applying a social salvation plan that is firmly in place in the current reality and is evolving ahead of policies that extend to the sector, industry, space and time. We refuse to hand over the design to the interests of over-profit. We refuse to subject social cohesion, economic stability and development to the designs of the 'triangle of sin', which is even trying to take advantage of the global economic crisis meeting with the economic crisis that it has created for many decades. Point 3: Our homeland is a rich place that the "three-round of sin" plunders. And because home is first and foremost people, people are looting at the same time as people's lives. This will change with no matter how much it takes! The party and client state are over. The public who works for private interests is over! At the party of corruption and interlocutory lights are gone! No one, of course, should be afraid of doing his job well. But he must lose his sleep who thinks things change to stay the same. Old habits are cut off, and as we previously called upon society not to become accustomed to poverty, we invite it not to get used to each dirt, to rival it and clean it up. We will not rest if the new role of the citizen is not sought in some dreams, but it will be everyday practice at work, at the place of residence, at the place of education. The expression 'I am asking for the floor' is the basis of democracy. And democracy can be - and it will be - effective both socially and economically. We are looking forward to a Europe of convergence, solidarity, democracy and peace. We're working on it. We are opposed to an alternative draft of radical changes and we are not avoiding, nor leaving, from the field where ideas, values and policies are confronted. We respect the rules of the framework that we are trying to change. It would be a great mistake, however, to assume that this respect is a weakness. For us, the keywords are'solid order', 'decisive', 'new agreement', 'justice' and 'prosperity'. In our vocabulary there is not the word'submission', but - let it be understood - there is not even the word 'bluff'. And we have allies strong: the social need and the new reality, the social and political forces who are increasingly seeing the deadlock and are shouting against austerity. This cry will be heard on Wednesday by a united people and by everyone whose hearts are pulverising the pace of change, throughout Europe, throughout the world. And this outcry, this policy will stand a barrier to projects that jeopardise European cohesion, which undermine extreme right-wing logic and practices and the fascist monster. Point 5: The Government of Social Rescue, but also SYRIZA, did not come to just fight. It came to remain, in order for dignity, democracy, development on the basis of social needs, to remain social cohesion and unity. Hope is here and the future declares its presence in voting for the programme commitments - not declarations - and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vitsa. Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos is called in Stepma from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel very responsible as I take the floor in the Greek Parliament for the first time. The criticality of the circumstances gives us all enormous responsibilities. Now the country's course for the next few years is being judged. Developments can be rapid. It is all our duty to control them, to prevent the worst, to ensure what we have achieved and to build on them. After four years of sacrifice Greece can achieve much more than two and a half years ago. It can be, because the recession has been zeroed and we have been growing. It could be because we achieved surpluses, we ended up with the memorandum and arrived at the next day. It can, because the country has complied with its commitments and our partners are obliged to respond to theirs, to accept a new regulation on public debt and a new reform programme. All of this isn't today. We agreed on them in November 2012. It is the plan that brought the country to the end of the memoranda and the passage to the credit line support, the plan that was coming out of the crisis and led with certainty and security to recovery and uprooting. We will defend what we have achieved with enormous sacrifices, but we will also support decisions in the right direction of a national effort. But it is up to the government to coordinate, at last, its clock with the reality, to seek the best for the country, not for intra-group needs and balances, not to suggest impressions but substance, not to sacrifice confidence in our economy on the altar of outdated ideals, to present, at last, a well-established and costed realism programme rather than populism, to negotiate on the basis of European data rather than regularisations based on game theories, not to be trapped in deadlocks that could lead the country to disaster with Europe. Besides - and pay attention to this - your own Programming Declarations will remain a "language", "cover" of statements if in a few days' time you break them with Europe and lead to a suffocation of the economy, society and the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the result will judge your intentions and not your intentions. Does the government know what it will do on Wednesday at Eurogroup? Does he know what he will do next at the summit? Does he know where he's going next? What is the compromise they would have accepted? What cost would Greece bear? Has he measured the consequences of the break? None of these critical and vital things the Prime Minister mentioned in an hour and a half. In order for the negotiation in Europe to succeed, it needs documented studies and a plan, not to invoke election promises. It wants alliances with the European institutions, not the streets. And yet, the government goes to Brussels with an ally of loneliness. And loneliness may give her a place on the headlines, but it is not good for the interests of the country. Other communication, other substance. Another arrogant attitude, another tough negotiation. But our partners also have obligations. They are under an obligation to behave more as partners and less as lenders and accountants. Europe is our common home and united Europe must not resort to suffocation practices. Ladies and gentlemen, the horizon around us is not clear at all. The country has no time to waste. So we have a duty to move on with a plan, to see ahead, not blindly. It's not a game of improvisation our lives and our future. It's not a rehearsal we live in. It's the hard reality. Nevertheless, the new conflict insists on the election blur. We have heard in the Prime Minister's Programmatic Declaration an account of findings and the launching of unfounded complaints. We have heard genealogies about the big and magnificence for the little ones. We have heard desires, we have heard goals, but not ways that can act on them. We have heard a lot about the ultimate future, but we have spoken about the critical today, talk about everything that can be judged, literally everything. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that for the result you will have responsibilities towards the Greek people, not for your wishes! Since the next election, as we heard in 2010, members of the government discredit the country as bankrupt and corrupt. We hear top executives copying medieval nuns. The memorial to be finished is baptized "bridge". The Memorandum calling for a new contract is called ‘new contract’. The haircut has been demanded for prolongation and credit. The conclusion is clear: Either they give up what they were sharing, promising everything to everyone or taking the country into dramatic adventures. If the first is done, if they abandon populism and finally discover realism, the problem will only be theirs. It will be about their great internal contradictions and dead ends. But if the second happens, if they are lost in deadlocks and caught in economic suffocation traps, the drama will be for the whole country, for all Greeks. This drama is an obligation to prevent not only the New Democracy, but also all the reformist and pro-European political forces who want a strong Greece in a more political, more social and more united Europe. Forty years we have been in New Democracy, and it has been a founding proclamation of our proclamation. This founding declaration highlights clearly the principles and values of constant topicality: that we will defend democracy, justice, social cohesion, collective progress, our national laws, that we will always serve only the true interests of the nation, that we will oppose the divisions so badly accumulated in the country. We have to warn all of this about the fact that it is not enough in Europe to say that it has the people's mandate, because all the governments themselves can invoke it. So don't jeopardize our position in the Eurozone. Don't patronize our homeland. Don't start dismantling everything with huge sacrifices we've achieved. Also, don't dare prescribe '81 transcripts and attempts to reunite. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Antonis Samaras government has raised huge political costs, to prevent the unscrupulous bankruptcy, to restore the country's credibility, to achieve fiscal consolidation, to get the country out of the crisis. So don't expect no one to undermine streets that we opened. Above all, there is the national, social and collective interest for us. We won't have a zero opposition. We're not, and we're not. We will be dynamically present in government control, but fair to it. We will be responsible in this House for supporting any development effort. We will be with the citizens in actions to stimulate employment, to improve everyday life. We'll be here for Greece. However, we cannot give support to the unknown, the enthusiasm, the predicament, the dangerous one. We do not support the heterogeneous coexistence of an ideological Left on the one hand, an ideological Left on the other hand and an undiminished right on the other, which is consciously at risk of the country's European path and, therefore, its security, economy and its prospects. We are not voting for the government's Programmatic Declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris from Golden Dawn is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u10	I would like to start by protesting and denouncing this tragic situation that I am experiencing as an elected MP, as a representative of the third political party in the country, I, a large number of Members of the Golden Dawn and the Chief of the Golden Dawn, who are forced to come to Parliament, to speak by representing four hundred thousand citizens, with handcuffs, automatically sub-machine MP5 with silencing, with lightweight jeeps. This is a wound to democracy. There is no democracy in Greece! The function of the Constitution is ruined! The Minister for Civil Protection is here, Mr Panousis, and I will personally ask that this major issue be dealt with. The Bureau must also be taken over. It is not possible in a country where - to remember Xero's case - Xero gave Xero permission to go to his village without accompanyings, to elected MPs not to be given such permissions and to go out of prisons accompanying all-armed policemen with automatic sub-pilots. This situation is really a disgrace to Greece of 2015, which we say we want to have a progressive government! Also, because I see that Mr. Paraskevi, the new Minister for Justice, is here, at last, something must be done with the body of complaints - not made by the Golden Dawn - for the operation of a vigilant circuit that has unleashed the image of Greek justice and has dragged to prisons elected MPs of the country's third political party. I am specifically talking about complaints by Mr Rupakiotis, the former Minister of Justice, who belongs to the Left, as you know, who specifically talked about political management at the court level, photographing a specific indictmental circuit, which the former Secretary-General of the Government revealed in absolute detail. The current President of the Parliament was also present and said that something needs to be done about these complaints. SYRIZA had initially said that there would be a debate before the day-to-day, and nothing was done at all. And some crimes from the previous government tend to be covered and buried. That's not gonna happen. I would also like to inform you - here is the oxymomile - that in the case of the Baltaku complaints - all confirmed - when he said that phones were dropped, to put us in jail before the video was released, the former Minister of Justice, Mr Athanasios, was here and admitted to a timely question of mine that he called the Head of the Court of First Instance at the time of interrogation of the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn. In any other country, if such a crime was committed, the Minister would go to jail. Sarkozy in France, because his lawyer contacted a judge, was arrested and handcuffed. Here we demand and expect the new government to investigate these complaints, that there should finally be a pre-investigation committee on this matter. I repeat on the Baltaku case that all there is is is that I'm going for interrogation Thursday. Do you know what the charges are? As a matter of fact, I came here to the House Step and told the truth. This is the charge of coming to the Step of the House and I revealed these facts which, instead of sending the wardens to prison, send me into interrogation. So I would ask the new government, the relevant ministers, the Bureau of Parliament to deal with this major issue. There's gonna be more revelations. We will also have other very specific complaints at parliamentary level. I am closing this parable, however, to talk about the developments concerning the majority of the Greek people and about the future of our country. The Golden Dawn, fully respecting its institutional role and popular mandate, as a third political force, has proved in these few days that it will not make a sterile opposition. On the contrary, we will be the national opposition. From the first moment we proved that. When the new government actually announced a reaction to the embargo on Russia, Golden Dawn was the first to support this decision. In fact, the media, those pimps of public life, that we are the tail of SYRIZA. This is a great lie, because it was revealed with the cubism that followed, because in fact with the presence of Mr Kotzias of the Foreign Minister at the Conference of Foreign Ministers, we said "yes" in the embargo against Russia which is affecting Russia, it is affecting Greek interests, it is affecting Greek producers. Sadly, in these few days, we have seen more cucumbers. At the meeting of the Greek Minister of Finance with the famous Symble, the representative of German tachographia, the unborn German tachograph, there was not a single word about debt haircuts. SYRIZA, however, was elected government by demanding a debt cut, telling the Greek people that he would claim a debt cut. Nothing has been said about the abolition of the memorandum. While you have been elected government by saying from here that "we will tear the memorials" and the Minister of Finance spoke to you about maintaining 70% of the memorandum, you said you did not want the Troika. We're totally in agreement. To leave Greece the troika, to leave the representatives of foreign taculty from Greece! But how is it that you do not want the troika today - yesterday rather, but today contacts continue - we already have meetings of Mr Drasakis and Mr Varoufakis with representatives of the international loan sharks, Mr Vizer and Mr Costellos, who is in charge of the European Commission in the troika. How do you want to get the troika out when you bring it back in ten days? Unfortunately, what we have encountered in the last few days from the new government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks is a very charming rhetoric within Greece and, of course, in front of the television lenses, but only for internal consumption, because others say here to our loan sharks. When the Minister of Finance went to Shoeble, he didn't say a word about the mortgage loan! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, I would like a little more time, because in the prison I am in and prepare my speech I have no opportunity of accurately calculating the time. I do not, in other words, have the objective conditions that all of you have here to be prepared and typical of your duties. I'd like a very short time credit, please. The Eurogroup of 16 February is very crucial for the country. The Golden Dawn, as a third political force, reminds you that the people have already spoken, has already spoken and requires the end of the memorandum and subjection. Any retreat, any other agreement that does not include this basic principle, any attempt to continue the Memorandum Policy is in fact a betrayal of the people's mandate! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Every national effort as a response to this policy of international loan sharks that led Greece to a humanitarian crisis will be supported by Golden Dawn. Even if a break is caused, because this is being discussed - I personally do not believe it and I will analyse my thinking - a one-way road from there and beyond is the referendum. To call on the Greek people to decide not whether the Memorandum Policy will continue. That's what he said. He said 'no' in the last elections. One-way is the referendum on whether to remain in the euro or in the drachma. We have already anticipated this and the election. We have said it and said it from here on the Step: Your Government has agreed on the substance of a continuation of the memorandum, which will be called the ECCL line or something else. The Troika will be here, in other words, high supervision, suffocating surveillance, but it will have a different name - let us say 'three-year-old Committee of Institutions' - and it will certainly be just as hard and disastrous. That's what we've been through. Here we shall be, to repeat them once they have been acted upon. As far as the other programming positions are concerned, and because the Prime Minister spoke quite rightly - for a committee on claiming German allowances and mortgage loans, I would like to remind him that the Greek people invoked include the four hundred thousand citizens who voted for the People's Association - Golden Dawn and showed him to a third party and no one has the right to invoke the mandate of the Greek people and to exclude four hundred thousand Greek citizens. Besides, as I said before, it's good to say all this in here. In its first speech, the current President as President of Parliament said that there would be a commission on the rental loan - quite rightly - but that was not the case with your Minister for Finance when he went to Germany. Yesterday we heard Thessaloniki's programme partly going "a walk", invoking the national duty of the citizens to pay HISFIA, while SYRIZA was elected government by saying that it completely abolished HISFIA. You have forgotten the EUR 751 at the moment. You didn't say a word about debt write-off. You didn't say a word about debt control. You did not say a word about the illegal and burdensome debt, about the money we borrowed to pay for the corrupt political power! The government's yesterday's programming declarations are also a reproach for our national issues. The Turks and the Skopje are also entitled to our Cyprus and Macedonia. Golden Dawn highlights its national position: no compromise for our Macedonia, no name that will include, even as a synthetic, the term "Macedonia"! As far as the Cyprus issue - this open wound of Hellenism - is concerned - we say 'no' to the reunification announced by the Prime Minister, we say 'no' to the recognition of Attila, because that is what reunification is. We say the settlers and the occupation army will leave Cyprus. We say 'yes' to the union of free Cyprus and Greece. How can this be done? Through the exclusive economic zones of the two states which are advocating, through the doctrine of the single defence area. Speaking of the exclusive economic zone, neither did the Prime Minister mention this major national issue yesterday. He made reference, of course, to the privileges of the political system. The Golden Dawn from the first day that came to this Chamber demanded the abolition of all the privileges of the political system. I personally have a privilege as a Member right now, to live my life in a two-by-three cell and write to some lousy manuscripts these speeches I come here to do, escorting all-armed policemen. We are not asking to get to this point. We are calling for the dismantling of the provocative privileges the political system currently has. We call for the funding of the parties to be abolished. We have brought a concrete proposal for a law to abolish 80% of the funding of the parties. Golden Dawn is the proof that the parties don't need the funding. We've spent a year and a half now, three elections without funding. We put them in our pocket. Therefore, the parties do not need funding. What do the parties need? Checking their finances. As the IMO entered into the Golden Dawn and made it all "shell and feather" and it turned out to be completely clean, so it must be done with all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u11	I would ask you, Mr President, to be brief, because you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u12	I'm short. You're right. No tolerance for public life pimps! It is a bad image for SYRIZA Members to have taken a stasis at the TV station "MEGA", because there we have an absolute squabble of pimps, i.e. those who have the channels, who have illegally taken the licenses, which have at the same time the tolls, which must finally be stopped by the Greek people. All these conventions must be denounced and we must see again from the outset what money it is to get all those who have swept through Greece and have dissolved the social fabric. It needs to be immediately examined for "SIEMENS", memorandum, PSI, Lagard list, and it needs to be immediately inspected in all the great names that solve the public life of the country. They must also finally return to the seas, which were covered by the previous government with illegal amendments, including the bankers, who had issued these "seawaters" and have not taken the public back and no drachma. Primary production. Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. Hydrocarbons. This is the only way to develop the country. There's no other way. Only if we produce, if we go deep into the extraction of our national wealth, is Greece hoping to breathe. Finally - and I close - the only solution to the Greek problem was the Prime Minister said it is political. I will agree and add that it is geopolitical. Immediately a geostrategic shift is required to Russia. This is the consistent request of the People's Association - Golden Dawn and any similar move in this direction will be supported suddenly. Direct commercial turn in Russia, negotiation on hydrocarbons, defensive agreement, common gymnastics in the Aegean Sea. That is our position, and that is the only way to stop being a protectorate of foreign powers, whether German or American. Thank you and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Cassidy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of "ELDRERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-two students and students and two teachers from the 1st Koropi High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Antigone Lymmerakis from Potami is called in Stepma
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. This is the first time that the Potami, the movement expressing the center of the changes, takes the floor to the Greek Parliament. We built the Potami, to change the country without tearing it down, because we believe we need to make deep and substantial cuts, to get away from the stagnation. All these years we have heard all sides compete in hollow rhetorics, crowns and confrontations with windmills, too intense verbal, but they have had a very sad and same final result: maintaining old structures, perpetuating a customer state, maintenance. It was a self-supported catastrophic cycle that began with a lack of confidence, continued to attach to yesterday and had a permanent phobia for tomorrow. It was the Greek stumbling in a few words. Some people, I think, would expect a left-wing government to put an end to all this, and we certainly hoped that, in our first speech in the House, we could make creative criticisms of new bold, far-reaching changes that he proposed. To say, for example, "Don't go so fast", but deep down we'll be happy and happy with you. But this left and right government does nothing like that. On the one hand, we heard repetitions of electoral generalities, which could be summarised in a phrase: 'Back to 2009 quickly!'. On the other hand, we did not hear the root parts that some naives, like me, would expect. I'll start with what the Prime Minister said. It is an electoral case carbon, without there being how, how, when, what in particular. And one wonders: What is this repetition of general declarations? Is it because maybe he doesn't know exactly what he's gonna do? Is it because he doesn't want to commit himself exactly? Is it because he hasn't cost them? He promises to change a lot without substantially changing anything. He wants to keep the balances, not to displease the guilds, to keep at the same time as a weapon of creative ambiguity in the expressions, such as the New Democracy and the PASOK, in order not to bore you. And now, actually. What didn't the Prime Minister say? Where did the simple analogue and the fairest and representative electoral system go? Where did the Revision of the Constitution go and we don't see it? Where did the separation of State and Church go, ladies and gentlemen? Where did the cohabitation pact go? We have heard nothing about the economy, the big national issue, except the classical wish to combat tax evasion and corruption within everything. The Prime Minister said nothing about substantial reforms and I will be specific and will focus on the great absentee reform from the Programmatic Declarations and, in particular, on the minimum guaranteed income, on social policy. As you know, Greece is the only country in Europe that does not provide for decent aid to them and those who have proved to be in great need. What is happening in the war against poverty is done by the family and especially by women inside the family. The state doesn't help, because it doesn't coordinate the minimum guaranteed income. He didn't do it in the past. He doesn't do it in the present. Unfortunately, it seems that he is not prepared to do so in the future either. SYRIZA often talked about the urgent need for social initiatives to tackle the crisis. However, in the programme of Thessaloniki, and in the Programmatic Declarations of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, which we heard yesterday, we found nothing for the minimum guaranteed income. Instead of adopting a radical intersection in the social state, the government seems to re-evaluate the maintenance and maintenance of today's structures. And he does it despite the fact that the need for a guaranteed income was the permanent inclination of the left criticism to the social policy of Greece. In the preparation of the proposals for guaranteed income in the 1990s, the Renewable Left, and in particular the Institute of Nikos Pouldzas, had taken the lead in the preparation of the proposals for guaranteed income. Since then, we have believed too many people in this wider area that guaranteed income is a key radical breakthrough that would change the face of a customer and inefficient social policy in our country, an initiative that would bring us closer to Europe. Where the family is forced to give itself the battle of extreme poverty, society would also come in a way that would help her. Since we started talking about it in Greece twenty years ago, they have implemented it almost everywhere in Europe. I will not bore you with examples. See only Portugal and Cyprus, which is one of the last importing countries. But this is where we resisted and finally the crisis came and found us as we have always been, with the old-fashioned social state that loads it all on the family and on women. However, since the start of the crisis - let me say - everything that is possible of humanity is done so that we do not obtain a guaranteed income. I would remind you that the need for a social safety net has been highlighted by the first memorandum. It was an unscrupulous obligation of September 2010 that was ignored. With four years' delay, New Democracy and PASOK have turned the minimum guaranteed income into an insignificant pre-election promise, i.e. another pilot allowance in thirteen municipalities, another "guaranteed" drop in water in the sand. Now the SYRIZA - ANEL Government comes and, despite its social rhetoric, gives the guaranteed income the graceful shot by the impulse. The government has the opportunity to do something essential and permanent, to restore one of the institutions that makes us separate from Europe. He has, unfortunately, chosen the path of resumption, also identified here as the Conservation of the New Democracy and the PASOK. But Greece needs social policy. But there is a need for real social policy and not for fragmentary, client-guaranteed safeguards. The minimum guaranteed income, as we have calculated and cost, to cover around four hundred thousand families, will cost about 1.2 billion on an annual basis. These costs are undoubtedly not negligible. The benefit, however, in credibility and above all in justice for our most unfortunate fellow citizens will be much greater. We in the Potami, believe that only reforms will take us off the road. We don't see them as luxury for time of abundance. We believe that if we plan them properly, they can be a lever of exit from the crisis and a way to be more solid in Europe. The government was talking about revolution. Unfortunately, he has served us again a little old PASOK, perhaps with a little more confrontation with Europe. But the river is in the House and we will not let the silence of an awkward left-wing government bury the hope of reforms. For us Europe is our home. It is not for us the role of the problematic partner enclosed in his neighborhood in the Balkans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. I would remind you that the list of speakers will last for three more speakers, so any fellow Members who wish to be listed and who have not put their card should now do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, eleven students and students and two educational attendants from the International School Of Athens (ISA). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. The JRC will not question the Prime Minister's commitment yesterday to negotiating hard with the partners. Of course it negotiates hard, but we need to see why and for what purpose it is negotiating. In fact, the negotiation made by the government, as part of the management of Greece's large state debt, forms part of the more general negotiation between the European Union's urban ranks for the management of the overcompensated states and the overall future of the Eurozone. The ruling class of Italy, France and other highly indebted states wants to liberate more state resources in order to support domestic monopolistic groups and their investments in order to shield their competitiveness. In other words, they call for a reduction in the size of state funding which is currently committed to serving the State debt and for strict conditions for zeroing deficits in the annual budgets to be relaxed. With the support of the United States of America, the Italian and French Governments are putting pressure on the German Government to bear a greater burden on them to accept the joint management of part of the debt of the euro area's highly indebted States. They are, in other words, trying to reduce the gap in growth that is constantly expanding for the benefit of Germany in the context of international competition. The United States' support for pressure on the German Government is about the general strife for the most imperialist centre to take over the next period in Europe. It also concerns the competition of the dollar and the euro which are international reserves. It is therefore not a question of the JRC's choosing the people camp, with the US against Germany or vice versa, to choose between Scylla or Harybdis. Why, what it means to the German centre, we've experienced it. See what it means to the United States? Does it mean - and this is what the US embassy asked for at its meetings with the government? So what did he ask for? Close bilateral and important cooperation on defence and security issues, a significant contribution by Greece to stability in the Mediterranean region and NATO, namely that Greece participates more actively in border re-establishment planning and participation in imperialist raids. It means accepting United States plans to convert Greece into an energy hub. It is no coincidence that it is not called a talk or rather that the TPA pipeline is acceptable, as well as the privatisation of DESFA in the Azeri "SOCAR" as well as the use of hydrocarbons and the acceptance of close energy cooperation by the new government between the Israeli-Cyprus triangle - Greece. Secondly, the issue raised by the US embassy is the establishment and continuation of structural reforms in the context of a prudent fiscal policy, so that Greece can be more attractive to foreign investment. In other words, people will continue to be sacrificed on the altar of competitiveness and profitability of monopolistic capital, because only in this way will new foreign investments be attracted. In this truth, does the SYRIZA Government - ANEL the people's factor bend? That is a big question, which he wants. But, really, does the change in the mixture of government policy being pursued, and at budgetary level, namely in the budget policy of expansion, constitute another policy for the benefit of the people? We in the JRC believe that whatever the outcome of the negotiations will not lead to a substantial improvement in the position of the people's strata. After all, the previous large state debt haircut in Greece through the PSI did not only lead to a relief of the people, but was accompanied by an escalation of the anti-population attack. As long as the objective - and this objective is not called into question by the government - of increasing the profits of monopolies, so will the sacrifices of social needs and rights continue. Because the competitiveness of capital and the recovery of workers' losses do not go hand in hand. The capitalist development path is reversed by popular prosperity, any logic of debt management or fiscal policy, and if chosen. After all, whatever example we look at from the international examples of the expansion of management and monetary relaxation, we will see that the working class does not improve its position. In the United States of America, the weekly wage has not increased since 2000 and not even 46.5 million people, to survive, are part of the feeding programme, while in Japan real wages have been constantly falling and the Japanese economy has entered a new recession. So capitalist growth without an increase in exploitation and cheap labour force and the creation of new areas of high profitability for monopolies cannot exist, no matter what the government does, no matter what the government retires, that competitiveness has nothing to do with the level of wages. Competitiveness is related to labour productivity, which determines the real impact of wages. That is why the relevant anti-grassroots guidelines and commitments to shield competitiveness apply to all Member States of the European Union. The SYRIZA accepts the strategic choices of the European Union. The Government accepts the policy of budgetary discipline, following yesterday's acceptance of the new Stability and Growth Pact for European semesters, supervisory regulations, balanced budgets and automatic restoration mechanisms for any imbalances. This is why, moreover, and will not continue reforms with development laws, which will give new incentives to capital, other forms of privatisation, in the context of the liberalisation of the labour market in order to support, in this way and through state intervention, monopolistic groups, such as in the energy sector, through PPC, which will ensure cheap current in business groups, or through the other form of utilization of the PPA to serve parts of the logistics capital. The same is true of the tax system, which we have heard many times about tax justice, but there has been no discussion about the'scatters' provocative privileges of shipowners. The same is true of the labour and the jungle prevailing in the labour market and in industrial relations. That is why the minimum wage at EUR 751 will also be adopted in time and with compensatory benefits for business groups. In addition, there was no talk about insurance, about the need to increase employers' contributions, but on the contrary, its salvation was referred to the bells, within the framework of a fund for the exploitation of public property, and in this way to justify the use of the natural wealth of the wealth of wealthy production sources of capital. So not only will we not have a relief for the workers, but we will have a management of the extremes of poverty over time, which will be called upon to pay the poorest. Not only will we not have a recovery of the losses, but the people are not going to live on the basis of the satisfaction of the people's needs, on the basis of the level of development of labour productivity, but also on the basis of our country's existing productive wealth. That is why the government demands that the bar be lowered and calls for the people to live in a simple life, that is, on the other side of austerity. In this respect, it is a challenge, in our view, for the people that today's patriotic duty is to put a 'plate' on the implementation of this anti-popular class policy. So the real rival to the people is not the troika, it is the capital, the industrialists, the shipowners and the bankers, as well as the imperialist associations involved in our country, the European Union, NATO and the IMF. Today, there are all the prerequisites, but also the experience of not getting the people trapped in the conflict between the imperialist centres and the competitions of the monopolistic groups. Today, pride and dignity for the people means that they must organise their opposition to the hopeful way out of socialisation of monopolies and liberation from the European Union and NATO, with the people at the wheel of power. Only through this road can the people's sovereignty be guaranteed and guaranteed, but the territorial integrity of our country is guaranteed. So we cannot support or show tolerance to the government. This would be an insult to the JRC's history, it would be an insult to its historic mission, namely the release of man from the shackles of exploitation. That is why the JRC is voting against the SYRIZA and ANEL Programmatic Declarations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. I call to Stepa Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u18	I thank you all. It is the first time that I have the honour, joy and pride, if you like, to address the Greek people but also to honest and respected colleagues. I'll be very brief. I will speak a little technocratically, with mere understandable words, as an economist, to know where we are today and to know all my fellow Members and the Greek people the rules of involvement, as we say in our own language. The Prime Minister yesterday made an analysis of the Programming Declarations and I will dwell on some points of this analysis, which are very important for the next day and for Greece's national independence, and very importantly to know what tools we can go next to our country. One of the main points was the new Bank and the new National Reconstruction and Development Fund. Our proposal is - and with SYRIZA in common - to transform the Deposit Fund into the new Development Bank, not because we like the building, but because technically the Deposit and Loan Fund does not fall under the Basel III rules, its supervisory funds are not controlled. At the same time, in the medium term, a very smart and wicked paragraph has been passed to stop any commercial activity. Practically speaking, the fund means that at any time they can get 1.4 billion cash from the fund of -1.4 billion cash, I repeat! - plus many guarantees and too many beetles, which it has. On this instrument will be based on the Greek KfW - respectively of the German - to develop the primary and secondary sector and, of course, to get out on the markets in the way we need to. We will analyse, I imagine - and the Minister of Finance in the next few days, but we too - how this proposal will be implemented. In the second large part of which we all have a question - and I personally have been in Greece for the last five years - is where the loan contracts concluded by the Greek State with the lenders are. The Greek contracts concluded by the Greek State with the lenders are very specific. It's a transnational, it's three contracts with EFSF and two contracts with the IMF. These conventions are not in the Greek Parliament. Up to the last request we made and approved, the two-month extension, I read: 'Application of a draft second convention amending the main financial facility agreement between the European Fund', etc. Draft convention. We have a draft contract, we don't have a final contract with signatures. I would like the Minister of Finance to take up his duties and, at the end of the main negotiations and Eurogroup, to bring to Parliament the bodies of all the conventions concluded with the international institutions, to know exactly how much we borrowed, what the cost of borrowing is, when the reduction or extension or the moratorium of payments came into force. I'll give you an example. The International Monetary Fund has borrowed funds, SDRs. That is why I would like to say - and I would like to draw attention to this House and the Minister of Finance - and I would like to know and personally check whether the government, when it was borrowed by the IMF, at the same time bought foreign exchange risk compensation contracts with the SDR. Today the SDR to the euro is 0.80. Last year was 0.84. Our difference is 1 billion at the level of the loan. If we have lost that, there are criminal responsibilities for me. If we haven't hedged the exchange rate. The New Democracy Government, by means of the Minister for Development, I think, of Mr Hatzidakis, has also made a fund in Luxembourg. We have tabled a proposal as Independent Greeks for full control of the Fund. This fund is completely useless. If anyone reads the law - I think the n. 4224- will wonder how Greece can send 350m euros to Luxembourg, to Lux Leats, to Mr. Junker's country, who leveraging funds and doing too many legitimate and legally immoral jobs, to lend small and medium-sized enterprises, and there is this possibility in Greece. I must call on the Minister for Development, Mr Stathakis, to see together how this has been set up. I call on the House and the Minister to bring us to Parliament the statutes - not the law. I would like to see the laws governing the relationship between your shareholders, KfW, the French, because we are sending 350 million, the Germans are "air" 100 and have the majority. The next issue is very important: the Minister for Finance will have to make a special negotiation for ANFAs. Do not go into details, it is EUR 3.2 billion, which has suddenly stopped and Mr Draghi has decided not to send us EUR 3.2 billion by 2037. For the Committee on German corrections and the borrowing loan there is a very strange point. The previous government has recommended this committee - just a minute, to find the paper I will put forward and see the President - which says: 'Recommendation, formation and appointment of members of a special committee for identification' - be careful! - "Arrears made by the Greek State for the German corrections" They have set up a committee in which, in its definition, it sets the word 'unfortunate' in its objective. So the previous governments do not believe that there are German allowances? Hasn't blood been spilled? Haven't they taken our gold? Haven't they imposed a forced loan? I put it in the Minutes and I would ask the honourable Member to take care of it so that it can be changed immediately. And I would personally like to know who has put the word 'fortunate'. It's very suspicious! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I agree with Mr Christoforikos' extradition, so that we do not get far. But, directly and legally, people who are better qualified than me must stop and review the compromise agreement with Siemens. We cannot have made a contract to compromise with "SIEMENS", with a company that has paid the universe all over the world, and we assign the lights to the subway and anything else. I don't want SIEMENS to teach me about how I won't get any misery. I mean, he's humiliating the common intelligence we all have. We shall also propose a committee of inquiry for ELSTAT. We also agree on the PSI Committee of Inquiry. There will also be a committee and we will remain on the decision taken by the European Central Bank and the Court of Justice on - and I give it to the Minutes - in the case T-590/10 of Mr BLOOMBERG's application to Mr Trice when he asked for the minutes of Mr Simitis' s s swaps. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But let's not get far. The decision is here and it's all written in Greek. It should be considered, because we have a legitimate interest and not a BLOOMBERG. We'll be able to see from the Minutes how the Greek debt was falsified. I would also remind you that Mr Draghi - you will all look into Google, so that I do not get too far - did the same job as the Santorini Project with Deutsche Bank. I mean, he hid in swaps the Italian debt. The Germans know that and that is why we are probably being blackmailed by Mr Draghi on the question of liquidity. Imagine a Mr Provopoulou blackmailing the Greek state, whether we had our own currency, whether our banks will survive or not. Finally, we have to see the new transatlantic pact that comes, Europe's pact with America. For us - because I have done a penetrating analysis - it must be read very carefully by all the ministries and see the legal and economic consequences it will have in the Greek economy. According to a statement by Mr Stournara, 'business loans of 23 billion are unacceptable'. What are we doing with these, ladies and gentlemen? This is about 23 billion without control. The management of business loans must also be carried out. We will not be looking to give EUR 50 million to increase a pension when EUR 23 billion admits that it is unacceptable to collect. It's "seawater" and the numbers are specific. Madam President, I would like your tolerance in time for a few seconds, to say a few things about the legal framework and the financial framework and the licensing of the collection companies. They've brought the Greeks to the point of chasing them like Rambo in the woods. Every time they pick up a phone, in particular, lawyers have become collectors and collectors illegally. There is no Code of Conduct, there is nothing in that state and the laws must no longer apply. People, both our voters and all Greek citizens, are equal before the law and cannot treat the state as "hunters" to say it politely. I have spoken with the honourable friend Mr Varoufakis and Mr Stathakis about the management of the debt. I will present them in the Minutes of the House, not for honourable Members, but more for this House, to see the official reports with debt restructuring scenarios. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They are all the statements and studies that are currently in place for debt management. The most important thing - which has not been put by anyone - is to enter the 'Paris Club' in the 'Paris Club in Paris'. There is also a report on 'LAZARD', there are fifteen analyses and I have read it all. We must put the 'forgivance' or'relief' of the debt through the 'Paris Club' on the table. As Independent Greeks we have taken a very great responsibility. We have not entered this government - and it applies to me personally - in order to be pleasing to anyone. I hope God and Panagia will help me to be useful. The Greek must be freed from the bonds of the Memorandum. And I would like the opposition not to stand up for 'Blue'. I would like them to study the relevant documents and to make creative opposition and to help this government in its difficult work, namely to really negotiate for the Greek citizen. In conclusion, I should like to say that international creditors are sure that they count on one thing, in the burglary of our internal cohesion, to improve their negotiating process, of course. We will not allow that. Ladies and gentlemen, we naturally support the government and vote for confidence, because we have this obligation in the blood that our ancestors have done, in the knowledge that we have acquired in our schools and in our jobs, to honor and not to be honored by the chair we are getting. Please, whatever we say is to be read by the Members and all the people, so that we know where we are today. We're here to help, not to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. For the information of the House in relation to your remark, Mr Colleague, on the title of the committee, which in fact contains the impossible word 'accident' in relation to the amount of claims, I would like to inform you that the Intergroup on German allowances during the previous period unanimously expressed its protest about that wording following a debate. The information we had was that this wording would be removed. I now invite Mr Leonida Gregorako, on behalf of the PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know and see better than I do these days, our country is being tested. But I would like to wish good success, because things are not easy. And it is not easy because, in all the tour that the Prime Minister has done in Europe, like Mr Varoufakis, we have seen more in front of cameras and more behind cameras. It seemed clear that Greece is in dissatisfaction with the positions of several European governments and the Community institutions, and that we should be very serious and responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, European reality cannot under any circumstances adapt it to our objectives. That would be like wanting to square the circle. The statement by the government and the Prime Minister that "we are a new government and we have a fresh people's mandate" is an argument that the other countries of the European Union are saying so, exactly the same. The negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, are not taking place to confirm the views and positions of one side or another. It's been five years and the others, that is, us. It is also not to obtain political impressions, what has happened these days in the media and in the channels. Let us see even now that negotiation does not mean conflict, it does not mean sterile obsession with previous barren positions. We have a national target. We have all said this here in the House that the national objective is to stay the country in the Eurozone and that cannot be jeopardised, to question it. I have listened very carefully to the Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations. With all the sympathy to the Prime Minister's face and his youth and freshness, but he told us in the past few years and others he told us yesterday. Silence for what's burning. It was the silence statements. It was the reasons of the 1980s, but then there was the drachma and then we had the debt very low at 26%. So Mr Tsipras is starting to be inconsistent with what he said in election because I heard nothing yesterday about the IMF. Nothing, talk, it doesn't sound like that. We'll get out of the memorial when and how? Or do we want to be in the memorial? What he said is a bet and that is not because there is no will, but because there are no objective conditions for these commitments to be made. These objective conditions do not exist. Personally, as I said at the outset, I hope it will be consistent with what he has announced and above all with what he calls the 'humanitarian crisis'. Of course, all the announcements made by the Prime Minister yesterday were made by the state. However, there is a crucial issue concerning the productivity and competitiveness of the Greek economy, which he has said nothing about. I have not heard anything specific, as I have not heard, ladies and gentlemen, about the so-called'markets'. The last time he talked about the markets. Yesterday I heard nothing about buying. I do not know whether the productivity and competitiveness of the economy and access to markets are the right-wing Prime Minister, because for me they are progressive policies, they are modern left-wing policies. It's the reality. The state of affairs of me, the one Mr. Tsipras mentioned yesterday, is a past for the progressive forces of the Left. It is a conservative and anachronistic political choice what the Prime Minister did yesterday. While all of us are trapped in stateism, all we are going to achieve is to replicate the sharp economic and social problems of the previous decades that brought us here today. One left, which you want to say is that you are, and which does not adapt its strategy to the data of globalisation and to the new European reality, is a left seated on yesterday if you do not adapt to them. It is a left in disparity with the new needs and demands of an internationalised world. Unless you don't accept him either. Let us even understand now, ladies and gentlemen, that in the supranational organisation called the 'European Union' and 'Eurozone', the policies of government are the recipes for failure, crisis and bankruptcy. The Prime Minister will now be judged whether he can manage the great deadlocks in which the country has arrived and, of course, he is a partner, and he himself is in the five years of 'no' he said to all. The absolute 'no' does not create a policy of progress from the crisis. The ‘no’ in surveillance, the ‘no’ in evaluation, the ‘no’ in the programme is a dead-end option. By insisting on these options, Mr Tsipras cannot create the conditions for a new agreement with our partners and lenders. Now it's time we're all judged. Not for what we've done in the past, but for what we're going to do now in the future. Negotiation with our partners and our lenders requires clear political and hard consultations, which we do not know, we have not heard. What we talked about, what we didn't discuss, what has come out, what hasn't come out, we don't know anything. We didn't hear any programs. We didn't hear a plan. We didn't hear the method either. Nothing. We will not achieve our goal if we give our hopes to overpatriotic crowns and emotional outrages. Thus, we can gain public sympathy, but we cannot be effective in achieving the objectives we have set ourselves. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, will not become a development path if only the SYRIZA humanitarian programme, as the Prime Minister calls it, is implemented, nor will it achieve a beneficial agreement with our creditors and our partners if common sites are not sought with them. I also do not want - one has said so from previous speakers - to believe that the government is resorting to awakening emotions in order to overcome difficulties. We saw yesterday what we called the so-called indignant citizens. We do not want to see these supposedly indignant citizens with another cloak outside the Constitution again. Because modern history has taught us that with rallying and nationalist populism all we can do is marginalize and lose our fair demands. So I believe that, despite the mistakes made by PASOK in previous years, it has given Mr Tsipras and your government the country upright. He created the conditions for economic revival. And because the act is the only criterion of truth, we will all be tested for the truth that everyone believes, for the truth of his own. This reality cannot be called into question. PASOK, as much as its opponents want to erase his history and his offer, is a party that has offered much to Greek society. The PASOK of change and modernisation made Balkan Greece a European country. Today, outside government responsibility, he has the opportunity to assess his long journey and above all to reiterate a new strategy of progressive forces. We have the ability to win the lost ground. Based on new policies, new ideas and new people, but above all on new powers, PASOK will once again serve its historic role. It is now time for some to show the consistency of words and actions. It's time for some people to show us the credibility index they want to show us how much the government is. I personally understand the difficulties that the government and you, ladies and gentlemen, faces. Policing out of reality, SYRIZA promised a lot. He's made a lot of commitments. I would, however, like to believe that it will be adapted to the European environment for the sake of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. I would like to inform you here that the list of speakers has been completed and that the list of speakers is closed. From now on, the services will be involved in drawing up a single catalogue. The floor is held by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection and the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr. Ioannis Panousis for fourteen minutes, in accordance with the resolution of the House yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is not part of an economy, society, culture, security. Democracy, like the country, is united and will stand up in all areas at the same time and equivalent. Of course, democracy does not grant rights and freedoms to institutions, bodies and individuals that are not subject to democratic and parliamentary control. I now come to matters of my competence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a new context of crime and security. We have very high levels of violence that directly affect human life. Most of all, however, we have a crime which offends the security of citizens and poses a risk to democracy itself. That is why the rule of law - and above all the police and justice - must find out how they will manage this new environment of crime and insecurity, in terms of constitutional and democratic legitimacy. The new form of violence, crime and insecurity creates new roles in the police strategy, which must also take into account social and cultural data, collective consciousness and, of course, the history and rights of the people, and that is why? Because the effective exercise of social control by the police presupposes a minimum of political democracy and legitimacy, but also a minimum of social consensus. The police in a democratic state protects citizens' rights while in an authoritarian state it oppresses citizens. The triangular relationship between the state - police - citizen is therefore, in our view, confronted by the fact that the obligation of police to protect the democratic constitution in the context of constitutional order is a timeless democratic demand. Critical to the question: Can the police, in addition to social control, also be charged with establishing democratic legitimacy, perhaps with ensuring social cohesion? The police as a social function, but also as an institutional function, can aim to protect and regulate the social order, namely the area of the exercise of the rights of all of us? Today things seem to change. The citizens do not only want protection from crime, but also from generalised inflexibility and lawlessness. The police should therefore not only deal with the incidents, but should prevent social events, social tensions before they become criminals. Therefore, identifying the problem and, above all, the causes created by the new police action means scientific policing and community policing. I'll come back. This multidisciplinary cooperation between local institutions, social services, citizens and the police - a square that is not always an easy case - is worth seeing and trying. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to proper administration, which presupposes the appropriateness of action and effectiveness, the parameters remain critical: legality of intervention, the proportionality of measures and the social acceptance of the result. The exact definition of what legal democratic police intervention means, namely a positive response from police and citizens, must be studied in depth. The police, however, need to integrate policing into the community, by preventing and preventing it, by mediation and, above all, by regulating and not suppressing social problems. On the political side it might be desirable to set up a national policing council, which will draw up a general strategy and refer to Parliament. I'll come back to this. On the scientific side, the time has come - I believe - to establish a research institute for the study and analysis of crime and police studies. We must prevent the dynamics of the crime and not run behind it. Nothing, of course, can do without changing the social profile of the Greek police officer. As we cannot have training without teachers, in the same way we cannot have police without police with a high sense of self-esteem, social recognition and guaranteed status. The modern policeman does not play hideout with thieves in the corners of the alana or the court, but he has to face the empire of crime, the so-called Killer capitalismus. In order to have a friend and a protector in the street, in the school and in the business, we must, on the one hand, trust him with a strategic role and not just an executive and, on the other hand, train him properly. This may be the beginning of a new era in the relationship between police and citizens, but also a new era in the right, modern, effective and always within the limits of our Constitution and our civilisation to deal with crime. For us there are no superiors and inferior people, service agents and institutions. There are high-level and small-level executives, but who are all low-paid, everyone deserves recognition of the risk of their profession, and yet everyone must be subject to disciplinary and democratic control. The Greek Police must understand that collective action is not a factor of disruption to public order, but of social function in so far as the police facilitates the exercise of the democratic rights of citizens. Relations between it and the citizens will be improved. Of course, this does not mean that the police will not deal drastically with cases of crime if this is necessary. However, this should be done on a different basis, where the police will not deal with the crowd either as homogeneous or in advance too dangerous. Every protester is not an enemy of the police, and this should be made absolutely clear to the police personnel managing mass demonstrations. Only by adopting such an approach can the relationships of trust between Greek police and Greek society be restored. The Prime Minister yesterday underlined "democracy everywhere", the new doctrine of security, freedom, rights and relations for police-citizens. Symbolic is the change in the title of the NSA to National Rulership Protection Service. However, it is important that he assumes responsibility for foreign security rather than internal police services. Development of the Centre for Security Studies at the Institute for Crime Policy and the establishment of a National Police Council for Police or possibly a Special Permanent Committee of the Parliament. In this context, it will be reassessed and improved the role of police special and on-board forces. We will see them again in the first place: because they were so engraved, because they had done so and how exactly society was finally faced with the police. Establishment of a Judiciary which will be subject to the Ministry of Justice. The dear Minister of Justice knows very well that there is Law 2145/93, twenty-two years ago, who is founding, but there is no presidential decree to operate. Reset the neighborhood officer's institution, pedestrian patrols. Why all this? They need us because the police are basically the protector of the poor. The Occupants and Occupants don't need public police. So, apart from all the other burdens we've loaded on him, he doesn't feel insecurity in the neighborhood, in the square, in the school. Of course, there will be upgrading and modernisation in the training of police officers. We need to review the institutional framework for the organisation of the police. Although, thirty years later, we voted in 2014 for a new law, it has malfunctioning problems. We have to fight corruption, with a change in disciplinary law. We need to make use of the former municipal officers as long as they want to stay. Upgrade the technological support for police and infrastructure work in general. To rethink the crisis, transfer and recruitment procedures with a view to merit. To reassess safety and hygiene issues. We've already released policemen from paradigms. Already five hundred policemen and eighty vehicles were returned, having evaluated only the politicians. We have three and a half thousand more cases of the evaluation of non-political persons. We are sure that in the end we will have over a thousand police officers on the street and not outside of homes. In the firefighting, there's a five-year deadline for firefighting firefighters. There is indeed a new heading. I'll come back to this. We've all cost it. We need to renew the fleet of national air fire-fighting instruments. We need to upgrade the Fire Academy, simplify the procedures for the supply of material, and always have health and safety conditions for businesses. They're all working. At the level of civil protection: strengthening humanitarian operational and operational assistance and addressing emergency needs, promoting voluntary civil protection and self-protection, awareness-raising on issues of population preparation and response and special groups, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that we have had an extreme five days and have not heard - and it is a success of the firefighting - 'Where is the state?' I have also told the police that there will be no political exploitation of its successes. Police hits are police hits. For the police failures, I'll take responsibility. We will study the establishment of the institution of the Police Counselor, according to the standards of the other European countries, and there will be transparent, objective and effective control of alleged cases of racism, inhumane treatment or torture. The first bill will repeal the provisions of Law 4281 and Law 4254 on insurance matters for employees in the Security Body (TEPAS) and will henceforth apply the relevant statutes. We will repeal the Ministerial Decision based on Opinion No 4414 of the Legal Council of State regarding the extension beyond the eighteenth month of the detention of immigrants. I would like to point out that most of the proposals do not have financial costs. The first is institutional intervention. Where, however, a new burden arises, other than already provided for in the budget, it has been fully costed and covered by European funds and the ESDP. I will give you two - three examples. Although the budgets of both police and firefighting are deficits, we will try to cover these "black holes". I will give an example: as regards the functioning of the 'police of the neighborhood' institution, i.e. the two-two-eight policemen with vehicles, with two-wheeled and mobile phones and a cost of EUR 6,600,000, this is already provided for in the budget. I'm going to talk to you about issues relating to vehicles - seized vehicles - because since 2000 it has to buy a vehicle for the police and the fire department. In 2014, we received two hundred three vehicles and we expect to get four hundred this year. From the ESRB, European funding, we received four hundred ninety in 2014 and this year we are waiting to get a hundred fifty and twenty-six of the Operational Programme. We do have two "black holes" in budgets and police and firefighting. And we have strange things. He pays, for example, a military rent for the detention centers or the police pays the airport rent, while the fire extinguisher has saved this story. We have problems, for example, with the five-year-olds. If for two thousand two hundred we have a cost of EUR 11,900,000, for the four thousand - which is a different issue of regulation - we have a cost of EUR 20,200,000. It is about the only problem, along with candy, in view of the period when we need to see it again in the budget. But we have already asked for 300 million for canters and 150 million for police buses. The future is to replace, through administrative restructuring, all this dispersion of buildings where we pay 18 million for the fire brigade and 20 million for the police - 6.5 million of the 20 million are going to the HIAD - and to see the whole story by increasing the capacity of sponsorships. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. Finally, we need to codify police law. It is not possible for multi-fashioned devices to be a secret to certain mandarins. I conclude, with a thought on terrorism: The House was also required in 2002 to discuss the political and social aspects of terrorism, a phenomenon which in our country - the only European country - lasts for over forty years. This cannot only be dealt with criminally. It takes a deeper analysis so that the measures taken are not just police. I would remind you that both France and Italy did so. They discussed the political and social phenomenon and not the specific terrorists. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has a vision. The Ministry has a plan. Police, as workers, want to reconcile with the people. The parties have no reason to agree not to the general strategy. The Greek society shows itself ready to help us to feel safe from crime and shielded by abuse of power. Good power to all of us, with confidence in the institutions of democracy and the elected government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you Mr. Panousis, Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction for the protection of the Citizen. I call on the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mrs Aleka Papariga, to move to Stepma as President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u24	Madam President, when it is time for the Rules of Procedure to be improved, these privileges of the 'former' should be left. 'former President', 'former Head', 'former Prime Minister', 'former President of Parliament', in any event. Mr Panoussis, I have not expected a time when, in any case, the government wants to show that it is in a very progressive and left-wing direction, to include in your Programmatic Declarations a position which I consider to be extremely dangerous. I don't charge her alone to you. It will certainly be a perception of the whole government. So you said the police aren't just about crime and corruption. In view of social cohesion, we must also face up to social tensions. And there, very close, was the term'social cohesion'. Look, I don't feel like having a very detailed and philosophical conversation. But social cohesion does not exist in class society regardless of the state of the movement. Another thing about popular unity, labour unity. "Social cohesion" means class cooperation, means abolishing the strike, the rally, the various forms of class struggle that can evolve with the focus of workers' problems. And the police will oversee that. You know, there is a whole legal arsenal that provides not only for the police's attack, but even for the military in a period of strikes, when, as he says, economic interests are being questioned. Now, we understand that strikes are directed against capitalist employers, capitalist employers, anti-monopoly groups, sectoral strikes or strikes at workplaces. This case law, inspired by the anti-terror law, was passed under the pretext of the Olympic Games. And, of course, while it was voted on the pretext of the Olympic Games, he remained there, in hypnosis, because he dared not any government in any strikes to use this law. But I don't know what's going to happen in the next few years. Because for us it is clean - we do not hide it - that progress, radicalism is related to the development and exacerbation of class struggle. On this occasion, the government says that the people feel they are decent now because there are proud and struggling negotiations. Yes, there is such a feeling to the people, so do we. It is clear, however, to us that popular dignity cannot be matched by any governmental choice, much more by the racing negotiations that you are making in the European Union. People's dignity is independent of how much the people suffer. It does not mean that the poor are inappropriate, because we also hear that the people have lost their dignity because of austerity. No, the people don't lose their dignity because of austerity. He conquers it, recaptures it to the extent that he realizes that what is produced and what exists in this place belongs to him and has to take it, he has to make the prospect of getting it. In this way the people conquer their dignity. He cannot conquer his dignity by either filling the squares blindly or filling the squares as a government applauder. Here I would like to give a parentheses. Uh, these mobilisations aren't spontaneous. When there's a class struggle, a mass movement, there's the spontaneous one. Alas, if one movement is based only on the results of one party's or another's action. It's not really massive. We say that in case we take the lead. The spontaneous does not exist when sms are sent to the phones, it signes a specific party and says "we fill the squares". What's spontaneous? It's not. We're not hiding. When mobilizations are made, we are banning banners and we are saying below 'KKE'. We're not saying it was done spontaneously to applaud and admire the JRC. In any case, old customs with new forms. We won't accuse you of doing shit. You don't. Your programme was pre-electionally clean. We had described it as an anti-Semitism, anti-Semitism, social democrat in crisis and effort, the way out for capital, for capitalists, investors, etc. Of course, you have surrounded it with some slogans that cultivated a pink cloud, slogans of hope, slogans of popular deception. Now you stripped it from the slogans, but you consistently fight your schedule. Now, with regard to who will take the lead in development: big capital? Of course, you are right and the New Democracy is wrong to blame you for being detained. It's just, you in your management mix, you understand, with a sensitivity, state intervention. State intervention is needed in the context of the crisis because it needs to regulate the distribution of the chasoura or the new profitability between the monopolistic groups. For example, it will not make us any impression if you increase the state intervention in the PPA and share the shares in more capitalists instead of taking two, taking three or increasing the fees for the Azeri gas pipeline by something. These things happen. Such marginal changes with the help of state intervention can be achieved. It does not, however, change your policy, which is what we have said too many times. I would like to turn to one point: the government's programming declarations were very poor - I will not say about the European Union, and Nikos Karathanasopoulos said so, and I have no time to repeat them - the NATO strategy in the south-eastern Mediterranean, in the Maghreb region, in the Middle East, in Southeast Europe. We have only heard that the humanitarian missions made by NATO and the European Union's military arm did not work. I mean, they were good, they were humanitarian, but they didn't bring results. Is that the problem? Wasn't it imperialist? Weren't they aggressive, blackmailing, terrorist and military? The European Union - it says - needs to restore the principles of its establishment. These principles have been respected so far. With these principles, it took the lead in the dismantling of Yugoslavia, with these European troops today - it does not matter whether France has made a decision or whether the European Union has given its wish - they are leading the ever deepest penetration in Africa, possibly for humanitarian and cultural reasons. It can be done for that. In any case, this policy, beyond the European Union, which is classly anti-linguistic and anti-virtual, is absolutely dangerous. You think that if you rely on France, Italy and the United States, you will get more than the New Democracy would get. Usually, such governments, when going to either one’s or another’s backs, become pawn governments, regardless of their choice. Tell me: All the history of the 20th century has or has no government - pawns? No colonies, as you say, but governments - pawns. In this direction you are. Mr Kammenos cried for the two dead pilots who died unfairly in Madrid because they - he says - fell under the duty of defending the country's defence. I don't know that the country's defense is in Madrid. I know it's in the Aegean, on the country's known border. Is the defense in Madrid? Has he gone to defend Greece in Madrid or has he gone to train for attacks in Africa? Anyway, why shouldn't Obama help you? Did you tell him that you don't want Souda, Aktio and Araxos, which we know are making Greece a bridge even against the Palestinians, that the Israelis and other forces attacking the territorial waters are equipped through them? I conclude by saying that I was very indignant this morning when Manolis Glezos came out and said that the Tsipra speech is the letter of Zacharianid in 1940. The least I can say is that "the muscle puts her husband on the same fate as those who do." I don't have anything with the mussel or the agents, but that's what came to my mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u25	But with Glezo...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u26	No, he put Zachariadis with the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Pappiga.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u28	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u29	He requested a brief intervention, as was due under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the Protection of Citizens, Mr Panoussis. Mr. Panussi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Makrain me and the government, Ms. Pappigga, the involvement of the police in social movements and struggles for democracy. Macran! I will read to you exactly what I said: "The Greek Police must understand that collective action is not a factor of disruption to public order, but a factor of social function. To the extent that the police facilitate the exercise of the democratic rights of citizens..." - spatially facilitates them, it does not facilitate them in terms of giving them permission - "the relationship between it and the citizens can be substantially improved." As far as social cohesion is concerned, in my opinion, it is a framework of relations and arrangements which does not devastate political action, but which does not allow the dissolution of the individual structures of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Panussi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u32	Madam President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u33	Here you go, Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u34	I am referring to that part - I have heard it - which speaks of disorder, lawlessness, social tensions. We are not talking about crime, we are not talking about other things, we are not talking about provocations, we are not talking about burning, burning... and so on. We're not talking about such cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the list of speakers given by the parties. I call to Stepma Mr. Vassilis Hadjilambru from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u36	Madam President, I would like to clarify on a point of order, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Hadjilambrou, with your permission, although I have given you the floor, because the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative is asking for the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u38	Very soon, Madam President. I was just under the impression that when he intervened with the Minister of Government, he would follow a colleague from the opposition. Can you clarify whether this will actually be the case during the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u39	It's true. What's your question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u40	Shouldn't he be a member of the Officership to the extent that the Minister spoke?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Panousis spoke and Mrs. Papagiga followed. She's a member of the Opposition, Ms. Pappigiga.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u42	He did not speak in this capacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u43	I didn't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u44	I am clear, Madam President. Shouldn't it be preceded by a Member of the Officerial Representation after each Minister's speech? I felt that was what you said yesterday as a rule in the discussion procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u45	After the speech of each Minister, if a member of the Co-population is next, the order will be changed in order to change. In other words, what the Rules of Procedure do not allow is for the Minister to speak and then a Member of the Co-population. Is that understandable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u46	I have not had that impression, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u47	Here, Mr. Hatzilabrou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, we have entered a new period. They've changed a lot in the country in a few days. There is a government that is proclaiming that it will defend the public interest against what we have lived for five and a half years: the framework of creditors, the framework of the troika to organise social life. We're all looking for roles here. Even for the way in which they will need to make opposition useful, acute and ill-considered if necessary, opposition parties should look for a role. Why? The rapporteur said so. Based on the results, you will be judged. On the same criteria, we will be judged. The results were judged by the Greek people. He did not consider ideological parameters. He judged results and not intentions. Your intentions were to take us to growth. The results were social ruins, they were one and a half million unemployed. These are the results. You've been judged for them. We will be judged on the results, but not on the fifteen days. In the fifteen days, however, we gave samples of writing. When they did not take account of us in the Russian resolution, we said 'we were not properly asked.' It's a sign of writing. We gave samples of writing when we went out and said that the account is not coming out and that austerity cannot be the future of the new generation, it cannot be the future of society. What did we hide? What else did we say? These are examples of the writing of a government which wants to mobilise Parliament differently, to apply a different spirit and attitude to society, to example in its way and to mobilise people's forces, because it is the only factor in supporting it. And if others were the factors supporting a government like this, a government of salvation of the country. This is understood by the man who was in front of the issue of auctioning. December passed and you did not give auction suspension for 2015, but waited for the email he said, "Liberation of auctions". The world knew when it voted that it was finding a government of support. Supporting what? Minimalities. Why? Do we take down the bar? Oh, no. The cubit for us is too high. Making a country stand on its feet and not just a geographical area means other attitudes to geopolitical, other attitudes to Europeans and especially to other attitudes of people, Parliament and government in their relationship. We are pressured by the Members of Parliament who have become government MPs from demanding desperate people. I say to all my colleagues: 'Convert it to a political position in the world, change the situation for all children, not for someone'. The new Republic's rapporteur said: 'And do not touch the children!'. What was the intention of touching employees who did their job well? But take note of something: Reprogramming and reprogramming the public means something, there will be private contracts with public authorities, where the public where it has clauses and which has requested guarantee letters will be able to use them. Not even a public relationship with specific private individuals was in favour of the public. The government's orientation was specific. With regard to redirection and change, dozens of changes are described. Our anxiety is if all of this contributes to a total change in the country. Small changes do not mean a total change. That is what Parliament must do. Parliament must change its style of responding with lines and continue to do so. We will be in another process as a Parliament, so that we can actually legislate in connection with both direct action with the people. Remember that the committees anticipate the relationship with the people, anticipate the relationship with the institutions, anticipate the relationship with the mass movements. The main decisions of the past five years were taken by legislative acts and this procedure was not allowed, or in the form of urgency or in the form of the amendment. Is it a bit of a change in morality in Parliament? So that means another relationship between Parliament. I invite you to another role, colleagues. Process your own opinions. But what are you going to tell us? That we badly give hope? I saw you swinging your heads when it was said there wouldn't be a man without power. You felt like you should have done it. You're saying you weren't allowed. You said we're not more sensitive than you. The 'act' you were saying earlier, the results. There are people with zero income, people with no power, no food. We were telling you to tell these minimums, to become a'social society' again, to make no sense of this feeling that it is perpetuated by some and that you do not take into account the minimum social needs at all. We bring them back to the forefront. We know that the one who will claim them is our people. We know it can change the bar much. As far as production reconstruction is concerned, the defence colleagues will be speaking after that. They will say that they cannot stray our own factories and that there are people, that there are armaments bills and that they are not connected here and that they are all misery and markets. Eighty-four of the AO contracts are in the D.A. We don't know what their course is. We want to change our country. That's what we're all invited to, whatever ward we're coming from. Everyone's gonna show their exact way. I know it's a start. The people who listen to us are not trusting us. He's with us as much as he really feels that dignity guides our actions, as long as he feels that the general interest is really what determines the government's policy. We have a promise of yesterday's statement. We will try, MPs and people, to do the change of measures for our country, to become a real country, and not to be a disgraceful thing for anyone who enters here and orders policies. This is where the policies will be produced! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Hatzilabrou. I invite Mr Christos Stakoura from New Democracy to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the government's programming declarations are being read and negotiations with partners and lenders have begun. Therefore, the criticality of the moments imposes on all of us patriotic conscience, attitude of responsibility, wisdom, temper and realism. Ladies and gentlemen, in June 2012 the government that received the country's mandate was found in a particularly volatile internal, European and global environment. Today, now, the new government is taking over in a much more stable environment. Then, in 2012, the economic policy framework within which we were able to operate was well defined and fully inflexible, since the results from its implementation were out of scope. Today, the new government is now receiving the implementation of the economic programme within objectives and is starting to gain levels of freedom. Then the government had three choices for the country: The first was to continue the notebook within the upcoming tunnel in which they were located. The second was to retreat and the third was to move uncircumcisedly ahead. We chose the way forward by speeding up to avoid adventures. I believe that this was and is the right national choice. A choice that brought the country, with great sacrifices of the citizens, just before the definitive exit from the tunnel. This option in the field of the economy has started to yield. The country has faced its high-time twins of deficits. Structural changes have been carried out. Long-term internal and external imbalances have been addressed. The economy after six years of recession began to grow again. Indeed, high unemployment, although marginally, disappears. In particular, in public finances over the last three years, we have consistently promoted the necessary fiscal consolidation, adaptation and discipline, creating, as the Prime Minister admitted yesterday, the necessary treaty for our national sovereignty. We have reduced the public's dues to the private sector by 70%. We have implemented targeted initiatives to rationalise public spending and to the political system since the beginning, from 2012. We reconstructed the mechanisms for controlling public money management. We have modernised the process of awarding pensions by the government. We've established the advance payment of the pension. We made use of ponding resources, such as inactive deposits, public-benefit assets, commentary inheritances. We have settled the question of concentration on the Bank of Greece and the use of money from criminal activities against the public. For the first time, we dealt with the question of quantification of the Greek State's claims by German redress and loan. The conclusion has been completed and it has been handed over. It has been done with methodicity, with systematic, serious, responsibleness, and this has been recognised in this Chamber by SYRIZA colleagues. Therefore, with collective and hard work, we have brought positive and measurable results. Step by step we dismantled the country from the stagnation. Now, although the country has a very high public debt, as it had since the late 1980s, it is not bankrupt, as the Minister of Finance claimed. It is, of course, still in a fragile balance, and it still has pathogens that we will have to deal with. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government has four choices: the first is to move out of vegetative and endogenous constraints so that the objective set can be achieved. The second is to shift the target by placing it within the field of possible solutions. The third is to attempt a combination of the two precedents, and the fourth is to abandon the resolution of the problem, to transform it into another unsatisfactory problem in which it will try to solve another police system. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will manage to apply one of the first three options, because the fourth is, at best, subject to high uncertainty for the country. In the first three versions, unlike what SYRIZA did when it was a Civic Opposition, we will support initiatives that we appreciate will be beneficial to the country. In particular - and because you spoke of examples of writing - we will support further strengthening the sustainability of public debt in realistic ways and techniques that are practicable, ensuring the achievement of sustainable primary surpluses, reducing the tax burden of citizens and hitting tax evasion, improving the quality of public finances, increasing investments and strengthening exports by implementing critical structural reforms, promoting the deprivation program and exploiting public property. To date, the new government seems to have no clear road map for the country. It lacks any development initiative from its proposals and seems to seek time for landing in reality. For example, it passes from the abolition of the memorandum to the necessary implementation of 60% to 70% of the reforms included in the programme and from the haircut of most of the nominal value of the debt in its regulation. And of course, as the first action, the Treasury recruited a financial advisor on government debt management and financial management issues, which, relatively recently, SYRIZA took some time through relevant parliamentary questions. These applications, although they are examples of extreme political inconsistency, I welcome them. This is because I believe that we must all be on the same bed, because there is no easy way of a decent path for our country, for sustainable development, for the welfare of all citizens. The path we need to follow is determined by the diffusion and consolidation of a creative system, by the development of social culture and political composition to achieve collectively acceptable objectives, by the development and implementation of a structured national plan for institutional and productive reconstruction, by the preparation and implementation of modern policies compatible with the national and European project, and by the honest, hard, effective and qualitative work of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, the role of the New Democracy is once again decisive. The parade, on its forty-year-old path, has proved to be a force of responsibility, credibility, stability, real progress and perspective. It has responded creatively to the role that the citizens each time they are assigned to it. That is what we will do today, with responsibility, wisdom and realism. We will objectively evaluate the results of the government's efforts on the real field. After all, the effort to create a strong Greece, which will act with dignity on the European and world stage, must be continuous and collective. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, because the ambiguities and contradictions in the positions you make are constant and great, and there is also a lack of a structured plan, resulting in high turbulence and great uncertainty about the country's course, I do not vote for your Government's confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. I call to Stepma Ms. Olga Gerovalis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time a two-week government has managed to completely overthrow the political scene in our country. This is the first time that, from the day after the election, people are not expecting to see what the government will do and how it will do. Instead, it surrounds it with confidence, goes down the street and supports its steps. He's not watching her. It embraces and promotes it, even those who did not choose it by their vote, because it is the first time in recent years that the people have felt decent and proud. And all of this, because our government makes it self-evident, because it remains faithful and unresolved in its election commitments and is thus being made a lever for individual dignity, a body of popular trust and a guarantor of democracy. I remind you that since the May 2012 elections, SYRIZA has committed itself to alleviating the victims of the crisis and the memorial policy, stabilising the economy, preventing even more massive and greater economic destruction and instituting a sense of security and hope. Since then these programme authorities have been busy and consistently specialised, educated and enriched in a great debate that we have opened all this time with Greek society. These were crystallized in the programme of Thessaloniki, in its five pillars we are now passing through the announcements in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, these three days we have presented an integrated plan, a national plan for the relaunch of the economy, the productive reconstruction of the country and the recovery of social cohesion. It is known that the road is not easy. On the contrary, we find strong opponents both within the country and abroad. We are already facing and will be facing other methods, threats and extortion. But we're ready. But above all we and the Greek people are determined, as are the peoples of Europe, who realize that developments in Greece will prescribe their own future. This time, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a alteration of parties in power, as has been the case in many years. Here, ladies and gentlemen, two worthy systems conflict. One has man at its centre and the needs of many, and the other crushes man, defending the interests of the few and the powerful. In the recent elections, the anthropocentric bourgeois system of the Left has won, sending a message of overthrowing to the peoples of Europe. It is no coincidence that all glances worldwide are on us in a small country, but it sends out a very strong message that people are not trapped in artificial destructive one-ways and are not crushed by supranational economic ghosts. Government ministers will specialise in their positions in the government's action plan, immediate measures and long-term planning. A comprehensive and comprehensive framework will be provided for the next moves of the government towards and addressing the humanitarian crisis, as well as for productive reconstruction. Apart from the political or party position of each of us, however, a very serious reason to believe that the declarations by the Government and the Ministers are not 'flying' I have lived in the last few days. In the last few days, the government, during its first hours, was called upon to manage the great crisis caused by the heavy rainfall of last week in many parts of Greece and gave a sample of writing. My law, Arta, was declared in an emergency. Houses, farmed areas, flooded villages were evacuated, poultry, livestock and apiculture plants were destroyed. Plants and craft installations have suffered serious damage. We had a loss of livestock, stored feed, as well as the destruction of a large part of agricultural production. Infrastructural in the region, like biological cleansing, has also been damaged. There have been too many landslides. Destroy image. The mobilisation of the state machine, the fire brigade, the police and services was immediate and effective and prevented the worst, with the first task of protecting citizens and not mourning human lives. A meeting of the Ministers under the Prime Minister immediately took place to ensure rapid coordination. On the spot, in Arta, the Chief of the Fire Corps arrived quickly, the relevant ministers, in order to have a personal perception of the situation, and the procedures for recording damage began immediately. Of course, our task now is, after the registration has been completed, to define the flood areas and then to restore the damages and provide compensation to the affected. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of an integrated civil protection plan, the fragmentation of responsibilities in many ministries and agencies is an additional rival when you are called upon to manage a crisis with time-consuming responsibilities for the prevention of disasters and the construction of flooding projects. All this, my county brought him in very bad condition. I am talking about my prefecture - because these did not happen in the rest of the country - because I have an own perception and once again the need not to privatise PPC and not to sell the dams, including, of course, Purnari I and II, which is the dam in the prefecture, which certainly did not play the role of anti-military work at that time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. I would also like to refer to a monument symbol in Epirus, in Jumerkas, which we mourned in this catastrophe, the historic single-bed bridge of the Plateau that collapsed. We lost a part of our historical, emotional and cultural identity. The Minister for Culture has immediately committed himself to the rapid restoration, which is estimated to be possible. It is also very important - and I would like to mention it - that is very touching by both citizens and institutions for both studies and economic participation. In conclusion, I want to say something that is well known to all of us, but I think it should be said. Public persons are judged on a daily and constantly basis by commitments and post-elections. My party, SYRIZA, was electionally committed and proclaimed to all tones that it will restore dignity and restore the hopes of the Greek people. Our government has already begun to do the hopes of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. I call on the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Nicos Paradropoulos, to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if justice has a general task, that is social peace. Justice means that the city, according to the aristotle verb, means that social conflicts are not abolished, but personalised problems are corrected, wildness is prevented and peace is promoted, as far as possible. This so important work of justice faces many problems, other fixeds and others associated with modern crisis situations. In its constant problems, we have infrastructural weaknesses and I will also mention two problems as examples, which you know very well. The Greek society knows them, the House knows them. Decades full know that efforts are constantly being made to deal with them and yet they are always there. I mean slowing down the administration of justice, the functioning of the courts and the congestion of prisons. Repeated correction efforts have been made. I know a success in the past, in the period '93-95. It will definitely be studied. Of course, we also have the problems associated with the economic crisis, which are a burden on infrastructure shortages. They are also linked to the social area, since fewer and fewer people can promote their conditions of life by legal means, so they are tempted to resort to opportunities that illegality often gives. What I will mention below in the framework of the programme of the Ministry of Justice will in principle be based on some of the principles I propose. The Constitution will stand essentially at the top of the hierarchy of the rules of law. The practice of forwarding a memorandum, following a law and the Constitution to remain in the third place or to be sidelined, does not have a place in the politics and work of justice. Moreover, defending the Greek Constitution is at the same time defending the common constitutional traditions of Europe, which constitute primary Union law. Justice in its formation will be worthwhile and democratic, as will be analysed below. In the face of crime, there is no place for a zero tolerance policy, no matter how well the term is. Justice will be strict against guilty persons for serious crimes and lenient tolerant of petty offenders. Criminal justice is not punishing the mind, but guilty acts that have been committed. There will be equal treatment against the mind. Emphasis will be placed on crime prevention and reintegration, while prisons should be human, not only because of the need to respect human rights, but also because crime is reproduced. A leading institutional issue in the field of justice is certainly the beginning of the procedures for the revision of the Constitution. If this start-up, which is of course a central issue, is decided, it will certainly be combined with a democratic and in-depth dialogue with political forces, institutions and social movements, and there will also be broad consultation with the citizens. In the main direction it will have the major guarantee of the rule of law and the welfare state, and important chapters of the review will also cover the functioning of the House and the organisation and functioning of justice, government work and, in any case, the criminal responsibility of the ministers. In relation to the individual chapters of projects planned, first of all, in terms of the functioning of justice, the current system of justice administration is receptive to improvement, so that it is both worthwhile and democratic. It is important to upgrade the self-employed of the courts and the role of their chambers. The change will be based on the proposals made by the institutions of justice, particularly judges, prosecutors and competent administrative officials in the field of justice, with hearing and scientific associations at all events. I would point out that officials of justice are being dealt with and, in any case, are, among other things, lawyers, notaries, judges and rangers, whose opinion will also be heard very carefully on their own issues, but also on the more general issues of justice. In general, there will be a search for reforms to be synchronised with changes in infrastructure, which should be able to support them. Our involvement in the European framework of institutions and especially in the Council of Ministers of Justice of the European Union in the formulation of common policies will primarily guarantee human rights. Also, the adaptation of Greek legislation to international contractual texts or directives will proceed on the basis of the country's contractual obligations, but also on the basis of a weighting of the social needs and, above all, of course, of our Constitution. A review of the terms of operation of the National School of Judges will take place, in particular by promoting institutions for the training of judges, with emphasis on racism, xenophobia and drugs. Measures to speed up the administration of justice will be promoted, which will not undermine the guarantees of rationality. This will be done in the context of the code reform, so that it does not cause systemic problems and is effective. Of course, there will always be an attempt to cover the empty organic positions of judges and judges. Combating corruption and crimes in general: It will be served by the functioning of justice to the extent of its competence and in cooperation with other relevant ministries and authorities. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, cases of economic corruption - Lagard, Liechtenstein and any available data - they will be investigated and promoted, as will claims of damages and mortgages by executing judicial decisions. There is an important advance at the moment to produce new codes. There will be an attempt to revise the existing plans on the basis of the principles that I have mentioned. At the moment, however, I can mention the following: The Sanctions Code Plan is currently more suited to the new circumstances and will be promoted as a priority, of course, after a short processing process. The draft Code of Civil Procedure includes, inter alia, arrangements for proof, deadlines and forced execution, seizures and auctions, which provide for speeds of execution of social and procedural hardships. These will be reviewed in the context of a comprehensive review, after strong responses from scientific associations and associations have been recorded for the content of this plan. The draft Code of Criminal Procedure includes useful reforms, but the current criminal procedure as a whole also includes arrangements such as those concerning the one-member criminal courts, which need to be reviewed in the context of a comprehensive review. The promotion of the plan of the Criminal Code - also important work - may be the result of careful consideration of the more general practices and sometimes chainy effects of certain reforms of the criminal system, such as those for the abolition of financial penalties, for example. There will be a reduction in the costs of access to justice, expenditure which prohibits the recourse of the weak and sometimes the average citizen to it. They have, of course, been criticised not only by national but also by domestic bodies. As far as infrastructure improvement is concerned, the first thing that can be said is that an important project is already under way for the electronic interconnection of justice structures and services, which will be supported and promoted as far as its response to the needs of justice is concerned. I am going through the chapter of the anti-crime policy and the penitentiary system. Even symbolically, let me first say that minor prisons will be effectively abolished. More specifically, the imposition of criminal incarceration on minors of 15 to eighteen years of age will be drastically restricted to provide for homicide crimes only. Convicted, I imagine, that there will not be or will be measured in one hand's fingers, so they will be able to be held in civilised conditions in a safe space by adult prisoners and there will be no need for particular prisons for this charge. The second measure is that there will be an effort - after a study which is selective, but without enthusiastic - to dismantle felonies to severely punished delinquents. Many of the attempts to decongest prisons and the criminal system in general have in the past been based on decriminalisations. They did not pay back, and it makes sense that they have not done so, because the decolonisations concern slightly generally crimes, which in any case do not really lead to prison. On the contrary, over the last 15 years, we have had a sudden drop in felony injuries, so that convicts can always lead to prisons and intensify the phenomenon of conspiracy in prisons. This attempt to revise will be made in the context of the revision of the Criminal Code, so that there will be no discrimination. The abolition of type III penitentiaries will proceed. The recently introduced institution is problematic in many respects. Firstly, it changes the sentence qualitatively, without this change always relying on a judgment, which means that we are in disparity with what was judged by the court as a fair recompense, as a fair penalty. Moreover, the conditions for entering the C-type penitentiary were so wide that the majority of detainees and deprivations, for example the right to communication, were threatened with an appeal to fundamental human rights. The abolition, of course, does not mean that there cannot be wards with increased security measures in various penitentiaries. The burden will not apply to guarantees of human rights which remain intact, but to safeguarding and, of course, to enable the conditions of detention to be upgraded to the rest of the prisoners. In any case, the existence of special stores - partitions in terms of security is something that has always existed in Greek prisons. The conditions for medical treatment of detainees will be ensured as a priority and the opportunities for their training will be strengthened. In consultation with the prosecutors, it will be necessary to adopt measures which will lead to pity in the exercise of prosecutions. Prosecutors of conciliation will be promoted, but serious crimes will not be involved. As far as the penitentiary system is concerned, the increase in the number of staff is a priority. After all, it is already on track in the national programme and has been costed. At the moment, under conditions of excessive crowding of detainees leading to lifelong conditions, there are empty wings and shops available, blanks, due to lack of staff. The resolution of the problems relating to human dignity will certainly have an absolute priority. The way out of disarmament and, indeed, in anti-criminal terms, the mobilisation of alternative decommissioning measures, already provided for in existing legislation, such as monitoring a therapeutic structure, rehabilitation outside prison and, in any case, which are not exploited. It will certainly be sought in cooperation with the Minister for Health to integrate the penitentiary structures of the penitentiary system into the ERC. In the human rights chapter, there will also be innovations, such as ensuring justified conditions during the provocation and arrest of citizens in cooperation with the Ministry of Civil Protection, such as the legislation on the Cohabitation Pact, which will be amended, so that it will also involve the homosexual couples, in accordance with the international obligation following the relevant condemnation. Although it is recent, the law on racism and xenophobia will be revised to cover both racist activity and not just racist speech. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think I'll be done in a minute, Madam President. The Statistical Office will also be attempting to upgrade. I arrive at the end and would like to reiterate that on any issue it will arise, the first step towards addressing it will be dialogue. Dialogue will take place with everyone, eminent and obscure, with suspects, guilty men, hoodmen, with everyone. Because whenever there is no dialogue, violence is neglecting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister of Transparency and Human Rights. I think he also answered some of the rhetoric questions that have been raised earlier. And now I give the floor to Mr Galeo Georgios from the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, with great interest I have been following the Prime Minister's schedule statements and I have seen many things that I have read a few months ago on our website. Of course, I saw them once again that there is a great difference: the way in which SYRIZA wants to implement them and the way in which we believe they will be implemented. I appreciate the Professor, Mr Varoufakis, the Minister, who has studied abroad, as I have done. I think that it is not based on the two measures that you said, which were the most detailed of all, namely the abolition of the car in the Parliamentary car and the reductions in the staff of Maximos, in order to implement the one hundred-day programme. The other measures were about. Of course, these measures are correct and must be done. The difference is that, apart from some euphoria in our people, perhaps even restoring the sense of law, they do not serve anything. Of course, he also used other events, such as bridges or bridges, as he said, which of course has an expiry date, if I am not mistaken. The next part, which said that it will finally be able to balance budgets and so on, is the smallest surpluses. Gentlemen, in order for you to implement the Thessaloniki programme, you yourself calculated EUR 11 billion. I won't tell you it's more. I'm making more of it, but I'm gonna leave you to what you're saying. The smaller surpluses will bring you two to three billion - and not more - a year. The rest of the way you're going to cover it up? I would like an answer to that. Of course, I have to tell SYRIZA that before he even took over the government he made a very basic statement for me. He found that austerity leads nowhere. This was also noted by the US Government, when it began to give billions to enable it to cope with the crisis it had. Germany did the same when it had a crisis and even violated the Maastricht criteria. The only one who doesn't understand it in here that austerity leads nowhere is the ex-government. I hear many times where I sit "What will SYRIZA do and how will SYRIZA do it?". Gentlemen, I don't know if and how SYRIZA will do it. What I know to tell you is that you brought SYRIZA to government up here and no one else. I've heard from you and about growth. But what I have missed is the word 'production'. Is there any economist who believes there will be growth without production? I don't know him. I'd like you to introduce him to me. Of course, you said some things about public administration, that you will try to develop the way that so far is not right, so that you can reassure it and make some better services. That's right. But there is one thing: everything usually starts from a start. All humanity progressed as follows: First, primary production, livestock fishing and agriculture, secondly, industry and thirdly, services. You start from the end. We'll see your results. I want to say something else, which I was very worried about. You referred to the sale of public property and you did very well. Public property must not be sold out, but the Prime Minister left a "bug" as usual in the Greek Parliament. He said 'yes, but we will look at each case in particular'. So what are you gonna do? Instead of selling all the airports together - the secondary airports - as New Democracy would have done, will you sell them one - one? Is that your target? I would like a clarification. If you don't sell them, good for you. After that, I would like to refer to something else. I hear here all the time about some primary surplus and some primary surpluses. Because I'm an economist and I know, the primary surplus is a first step, but it's not a substance. No business is interested in whether it will have profits before paying interest on the funds it owes or no business is interested in the turnover it has, but is only interested in the profit or loss. And because some gentlemen seem to be making just a waste, that's why they're interested in the cigarettes and the rest. Finally, SYRIZA's program gave a little joy to the Greek people, who expects a lot. I would like to remind people of the old wise people's proverb: where you hear many cherries and a small basket.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Galeo. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "1974: The restoration of democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 57th General School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I now invite the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Mardas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I mention what I am going to do, I will give you some information on the 2014 budget, which we will announce tomorrow, just to have a first picture of exactly what we receive. Regular revenues in 2014 showed a decrease of around EUR 1 billion. Because of some reasons we do not know, the country was deprived of EUR 1 billion by the ESRB, that is, we lost Community funds. We'll see about that. This is probably due to procedural reasons, for reasons of bureaucracy, because when something has been done and we do not take it, it means that something is due to us and not to some others. As far as the primary surplus is concerned, while the budget was considered to be 5.3 billion, this seems to close to 2.9 billion. As far as the overall government budget deficit is concerned, i.e. all the bodies subject to the State budget, this seems to be closed to 4.4 billion. I say 'it looks' because there are only a few days left so that we have the definitive results, so that we will bear in mind the 4.4 billion, which is about 2.5% of GDP. What are we going to do and what are we going to do? It seeks better supervision of public expenditure, which is one responsibility, which belongs to us by 100%, and which seeks to strengthen the monitoring procedure for the implementation of the budget of all the bodies of the government. I will give you some examples later. It seeks to manage the cash surpluses of all the general government bodies more effectively, so that we have greater comfort when we need more money, as well as to strengthen the capacity of cash management and the management of public debt by the Public Debt Management Agency that you understand we are in constant cooperation. As far as wages are concerned, we are seeking to review the institutional framework of the single wage system and, in particular, we will see again the twenty payrolls, which we have in our hands and we will try to limit the injustices and weaknesses of this system, which touches too little people, and we are talking about all public officials. It is also intended to review the institutional framework on costs for the movement of public officials, so as not to deal with phenomena, as we previously had, where a Minister moved eleven people to Brussels to a Council of Ministers only to announce that the Acropolis Museum is opening up. Also, although the time has been reduced by which pensioners are satisfied, with another software and other techniques, we will be seeking to further limit this time, so that there is no great gap between the submission of a pensioner's application and the overall performance of his pension. We are "the wallet of the state", as we usually say, and you understand that with the General Secretariat of Income we are the two sides of a person. We are already working - and you will see the results of the cooperation in a very short time - with the General Secretariat of Revenue and within this cooperation in order to regulate some of the issues we have already introduced bodies considered to be advisors to the state, such as chambers and, in particular, the Economic Chamber of Greece. As far as revenue and expenditure are concerned, we need to be in constant contact with all the ministries, but a large part of the targets with regard to expenditure belong to us and another large part of the revenue again belongs to us, because you understand that without objectives it is impossible to run not just one state, but neither one business nor one household. As far as the expenditure side is concerned, I would, for example, like to point out the following, which is linked to the waste that is still in existence and is undergoing the expenditure side, particularly in places where we were lucky to have to deal with in the past, so we are bringing ready work to the Ministry and, more generally, to the ministries. There is room for limiting waste. I will give you a simple example: If you enter the Ministry of Health Prices Observatory, you will find four years after the operation of this Observatory that there are material prices that the hospitals buy, which are ten to twenty times more expensive than the wholesale market prices. I am not talking about products originating in China, comparison is not made with such products, but I am referring to products originating in Greece and the other countries - members of the European Union. You understand that ten and twenty times more expensive products in this period are a very great luxury to waste money. Once again, we have done research, but it is useful in forming our policy - it appears that there is a waste - and that is certainly not just we, it has also been announced by other bodies - as far as the money spent by the municipalities is concerned. We are already preparing a procedure on this, which will apply to competitions of less than EUR 60,000. We will replace these unspeakable procedures of the rough tenders that are allegedly importing competition into the market and see that through manual tenders municipalities buy products at twice the price that is on the market. You see me and I see you and you know where I'm talking. The process of the electronic directory will be introduced. It may be a technical term that you do not understand, but this will make it very easy for the municipalities to work, save money, and if the municipalities do not implement this process they will not have any money on the part of the state budget. As far as contracts are concerned, there is a legal framework there, which proposes a wide-ranging use of different types. We will focus on the most modern tendering procedures, which can save too much money and limit waste. Also, there are other samples of waste, which must be treated. For example, I refer to the building rented by the "Enterprise Greece", which is located somewhere in the center of Athens. Totally we pay for this building of 400,000 euros for rents and commons. This is where officials from two bodies are located. One of these bodies is the Greek External Trade Organisation. The Greek Foreign Trade Organization has even a very modern building, which is located in Ilioupoli and is its own property. Well, it could have been the «Invest in Greece», which is the second entity with the APR, who is known to have settled in this building in Ilioupoli, so that we do not pay the smallest rent, and because the building was big enough it could also be installed the DUG that the previous government thought to transfer there, so we would save 400,000 euros. I'm only giving you one example. Moreover, in the context of a mess that I can say exists in the building of Ilioupoli there was the only Institute of Packaging in the country. All those who wanted to certify their packaging came, not only from Greece, but also from the Balkans and gave their packages for certification and saved money. This Institute has been abandoned - I think that equipment has not been robbed - and as a result Greek producers wanting to certify their products to go to neighbouring countries, to pay, to lose money, and to earn some other countries money from an institute that took money from the European Commission and I can tell you that it was one of the most modern ones in Europe. With regard to the revenue side, you understand that some objectives need to be set and sources of revenue that have not been touched before. It may be that some of you have attended some studies that we have done on this subject. As a university student, I'm talking about. There is the smuggling of fuel, which we have dealt with extensively. We consider that, according to third parties' estimates, one of them is Mr Sourlas, who had taken a close look at the issue, is that we can save taxes of EUR 1 billion. We are ready, on this subject, and along with the objectives we will set ourselves, we will help seven ministries to take the necessary steps to change the legislation that we have, which we are prepared to implement quickly, to limit this scourge. We'll do the same with the smuggling of cigarettes where things are a little simpler. There the loss of taxes, again according to assessments by institutions involved in this matter, is of the order of EUR 800 million. Of course, there remains the blockade, which no one has touched until now, except on occasion. There we have some estimates of the ESS, of the National Confederation of Greek Trade, which we consider to be overrated, because they consider the curfew in the country to be of 20 billion euros. We think that these assessments are too high. But even 5 billion will be, only VAT will be calculated to figure out what we can gain. Here too, some changes can be made. Some may, of course, say that poor families, who sell various products, are going to the peoples. Let them sell these products in a process which will also give the state some taxes and sell them a little more expensive than they are now selling them. It'll be at a lower price again. We cannot, however, ignore small and medium-sized enterprises, which pay rent and tax and have workers and ultimately represent a source of revenue and a source of wealth here in this country, in the name of a trademark that has caused us so many problems for many years. As I told you, we set targets and where we have some means we will implement them so that we can walk the work of the government faster, considering that we are in a war situation. That is why some things need to be done as quickly as possible and we all need to help our colleagues and other ministries as possible. We are also waiting for you if you have some solutions that can help us in our work, give them to us to implement them. The Chamber of Finance has already given us a proposal on a specific subject. We incorporated it into the solution which will be heard in the near future and which relates to revenue. The well-known Global Competitiveness Report of the 2014-2015 period - although it also mentioned earlier periods - emphasises that the cost of bureaucracy in our country is around EUR 14 billion. In fact, not only this, but other studies also deal with this issue and the difference is between EUR 10 billion and EUR 14 billion. You understand what it means to lose EUR 14 billion of expenditure. We do not have a particular competence here, but you understand that everything goes through our hands for signature, everything that is related to regulations relating to economic issues. We can help to make legislation simpler and more operational and I give you an example. This whole package you see, apart from the first page, is all the arrangements that are linked to the Ministry of Health's public procurement system. That is why only a simple law was needed, and that is impossible to monitor and the most professional businessman involved in public procurement. This has to stop. That costs us EUR 14 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. I invite Mr. Theodore Fortsakis from New Democracy to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the many and interesting things we have heard since the morning about the economy, debt, major social problems, you will allow me to turn your attention to a more specific, clearer issue, which is the question of education. Of course, education is also linked to finances, since we have to admit it without rotation that its first problem is sub-financing today. However, it is not just financial, the dimension of education that is of interest. There is also the institutional dimension and there is the dimension of mentality. I note that the Prime Minister in his programme statements spoke a little about education. It has not been mentioned at all in the various election commitments we have heard and in particular in the abolition of the various memoranda of provisions relating to education. I also note that he has announced the launch of a dialogue and, in fact, within four years and actually announced a national consultation. We find that this consultation is absolutely essential and, as we have said about all the issues that will come to Parliament, we will also be positive in our participation in this consultation, but also in the formulation of proposals that will be constructive. I only really hope that this dialogue will proceed and that it will not be a pretext for dialogue that will be of interest to the trade unions in particular. I would also remind you that there is now a clear legislative framework that, at the end of the first four years of implementation of the so-called Diamantopoulou, allows us to assess the results we will have recorded until then, to find out which problems there are and then to reform the legislation in such a way as to meet the needs. So we could stay in this context and attempt this kind of institutional reform. I also note that the only measure announced by the Prime Minister on the measures to be taken on education - and I am thinking of starting with the issues of higher education and then coming to the rest - is the abolition of the institution's board. This is, in fact, a very negative development. I would remind you that the institution's board is the cornerstone of modernising the institutional framework of the Higher Education Institutions. We may have had problems implementing this institution to date - some problems, we cannot deny it - but we should probably try to resolve them and not try to abolish this excellent institution that exists in all the universities abroad. It is the institution which implements the external audit, does what the Ministry of Education has done before and, of course, it is progress that the establishment of the institution's board vis-à-vis what the Ministry of Education has done before. It is the institution that implements accountability, extroversion, and it is also the institution that guarantees compliance with the lawfulness of the University. I would remind you that half the Foundation's Board of Directors is elected by university professors and are professors of the University, and the other half is made up of members from outside, chosen by university teachers. It is therefore a democratic and elected body. I would also remind you that the best Greek teachers abroad are presently taking part in the Foundation Councils today, the most important of them, who are transferring their experience and which often come most of the time without even getting their tickets, and of course without pay. It is very important and the role they play during the elections of the rectoral and secular authorities, because their intervention, the pre-selection of three candidates who are then voted on by the members of the universities, the teachers, is to ensure that the transaction, which had become our universities in the situation we know, is avoided. It would be a catastrophic mistake to return the election of the rectal and secular authorities to student and administrative associations, as was the case before. I would remind you that students and administrative staff are well represented in the Senate and have the opportunity to take part in the debate and in decisions on their issues. Parliament must understand that universities have long been a man of law. How would you look today if the doors suddenly opened and entered here a crowd of young people who would ask you out of the Chamber to use it for a convention of their own? How would you like to go to the President's office tomorrow morning by a group of students or administrative officials and ask her to stop her work and adopt the decisions they want to impose? How would you like to follow preconvulsions, insults and even gestures? This is the day-to-day reality in universities, and whoever does not understand it, does not understand how our universities operate today and it is absolutely necessary to take care to get the universities back to legality. What happened three days ago at the University of Athens, where again a bunch of students and administrators entered the Senate, dismantled it, expelled the senators and then forced the rector to make decisions in their own name, showing the fate in which we have come. It is absolutely necessary to realise that this kind of behaviour must be stopped, because the dismantling of public universities precedes the dismantling of the country. I would also like to say that I wondered because in the Prime Minister's Programming Statements we did not hear any positive measures on the reconstruction and relaunching of universities. We have not heard any new ideas which will allow us to raise the universities where we have to get them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, we could have many such ideas. The idea of a university pole for the reconstruction of university division, the concept of framework contracts, which we could adopt to encourage the universities to achieve objectives, the concept of abandoning the collective distribution of cognitive objects, so that the degrees can give not just the departments, but the schools, were matters that I expected to hear and I hope that the Minister of Education will include them in the dialogue that will begin. I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. I shall no longer refer to what I have been thinking about middle schooling and the schools of the first grade of education and the kindergartens. I would just like to stress that we are often listening to the concept of equal education. I would like to stress that we need to return our education - and the supreme and the middle - to the concept of excellence. This means that, firstly, every idea of equal education should be abandoned. We will have to return to the experimental schools of excellence, not to enter these schools in a compensatory way, and the war in private education will have to cease, because it is the right of every citizen to choose the type of education he wishes to receive. I fear that what we have heard about education from the Programming Declarations, but also what we have understood from the election commitments, give the slogan for our education'superiorly backwards' and that is a great risk to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. I call to Stepma Mr. Konstantinos Tsukala from SYRIZA. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that the next ministers, scheduled to speak, are Mr Varoufakis, Minister of Finance, Mr Ismailos, Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Dritsas, Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and Mr Xanthos, Deputy Minister of Health and Social Security. I say this so that the House knows what the programme is from now on. Mr. Tsukala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, austerity, impoverishment, redistribution of resources to the detriment of the weak. The recipe is known, perhaps common. Although it leads to a humanitarian disaster and to a productive dismantling, it appears as a one-way path. Incapacitated in ever increasing contradictions and contradictions people mislead or, at least, faint. In this respect, the advent of the SYRIZA Government is a cut. For the first time after twenty years a developed West country appears to be practically questioning the dominant ideological automation. For the first time, fantasy and will are inspired by what is not yet there. Aphne make their appearance of new fields of action, new agendas, new physical wishes, new ways to understand what is rational, what it means reasonable, what it means to be allowed. The intake of politics as the art of the practicable is rapidly shifted. And this is particularly the case within an increasingly awkward Europe, a Europe which may not dare to awaken itself from its future, is content with the manipulation of its present. I would remind you that the creation of a United Europe after World War II was founded on the belief that independent European peoples can build their future together on common values. Humanity all seemed to enter orbit collective existence and solidarity coexistence. Everything looked open and effective. A new European people seemed to be beginning to appear. Although there were contradictions between the concept of the people, the nation and the state that had to join a common one, the dream remained open. But the hopes of the peoples have quickly been disproved. Before it was completed, the dream was undermined, maybe he was degenerated. Gradely, European awareness has been subjected to neoliberal logic. Day after day, homogenisation procedures were weakened. The creation of monetary union has not been combined with economic, fiscal and political integration. Diversification in debts, interest rates, productivity and tax regimes resulted in the continuous transfer of funds from the weak to the strong. Everywhere social states are deregulation, inequality is exacerbated, everywhere the poor become poorer, and the richer ones are richer. The dominance of supranational funds is entangled in politics in the one-ways we all know. So, in the context of this, all governments are under suffocating pressure and leadership is dragged into economic and technocratic totalitarianism. Like, not many people are rushing to announce to all tons, there is no alternative. The story of the sovereign, living peoples is over, the future seems to belong to the dominant lifeless numbers. This is exactly where the universalist importance of the fight against austerity, impoverishment, injustice and market power lies. And history wanted us to be in the lead of this race. That is why the new government's responsibility is very great. The future of Greece, Europe and, perhaps, the world, is linked to the outcome of this struggle. Having been in the eye of the cyclone, we are now the eye of hope. The impacts of the risk are unforeseen. If ideological and political choices are not radically reconstructed, the prospects are grim and deadlocked. Already today - we know - the crisis has led to the spectacular rise of extreme right, dark and anti-European isolations. Already today, for more and more Europeans, faith in the common European project is being engulfed. Even if they do not pursue it, even if they would like to avoid it, neoliberal choices will lead to the explosion or even the dismantling of European political culture. At the same time, the democratic formation of European societies is also threatened. Of course, history does not repeat itself. We must not forget, however, that Nazism has bloomed exactly where people have appeared consumable, where European values have been misinterpreted, where what we call 'austerity' at the time was inaugurated. We are not entitled, then, to be reassured. Once Europe starts to move at multiple speeds, once we are able to speak - even - of a South against the North, once well-established executives appear, the dream of integration of the people is losing its meaning. When institutional realities are exhausted in the reproduction of regulations, the course of things is subject to arbitrary automation. And then everything can happen. All of it! Even the worst! In this sense, the fight against austerity goes beyond its immediate humanitarian and economic content. It is perhaps beyond the demand for national dignity. It's much more than that. It is a struggle to restart history, a struggle to safeguard democratic legitimacy, a struggle to respect the fundamental status of people as political animals, a struggle to restore the future. We must fight this fight unreservedly. We have, for our part, the right reason, moral justice and historical need. And we are faced with a stubborn obsession with the agreed ones, which is not an argument. Let us remember that all the liberal legal classes recognise that agreements that are excessively bound to freedom and those resulting from the exploitation of the other's need are automatically void. And we are talking in the name of essential justice, in the name of inalienable values. So we don't retreat. We're not blackmailing anyone. Our choice can't be and it's not the break. But we are simply making the right point and pervading our historic law. He had come to our multipathic country to act as a lever of historical twists. But it's not the first time. I will be allowed to recall that against the cosmopolitan Alliance of European Monarchies, the '21 Revolution has made a decisive contribution to returning the ideas of the French Revolution. At that time, the fate of the struggling Greeks, at the edge of Europe, had led the entire Western world to return to the forgotten liberal demands for civil freedom, national independence and self-determination. Something similar - and I'm ending - is happening today. The universal resonance of the Greek event is characteristic. Against the new 'Sera Alliance' of speculators, the manifestations of support are multiplying. Half a million people who had flooded Puerta Del Sol a few days ago by squeezing Greek flags, it shows that the coercion that until recently appeared unmovable is no longer what we thought. The possibility of new prospects is ahead of us. That is exactly what the new incident is all about. As our Spanish friends say, "We can!" And we'll be able to! And in front of this cosmohist dream we must all be present. For the first time in recent years, the National Representation can now hear the voice of the Greek people and other peoples. At these junctures we must speak, but we must also make a decision in common, as far as possible. Maybe, after too many years, we should remember that we were all there together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Tsukala. I call on the Minister of Finance, Mr Yani Varoufakis. Allow me, in the meantime, to express my great satisfaction as President of the House, which since the morning the government has been filled with and that the government is essentially represented and not substantially. It is a new example - a model that the House expects to follow throughout our term of office.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in a normal country, the first speech of the Minister of Finance in the context of the tabling and discussing of the programme statements relates to the financial planning of four years. But we don't live in a normal country. Like the state budget, which my predecessor was forced to present, it was an exercise of no substance, as all the data were in the air, in view of a non-agreement between the previous government and the lenders, this would happen today, if I had presented to the House a four-year planning plan for the last four years, when, as is well known, we are in the middle of a difficult negotiation, the result of which will determine all the parameters of the budget, not only for this year but for the rest of the years. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, in his recent talks with foreign officials, told them that he is thinking about originalising, doing what he promised the Greek people. It'll allow me to copy him. I am thinking, too, of starting, coming to Parliament, Madam President, and honestly speaking about the economic situation in the country. Madam President, you have my commitment that the information of the people about our economy will begin here. I respect the press, the media, the Internet, but Parliament is important. First here, then in the middle. I apologise for not being present in the last few hours, but you know, these days preparing for Wednesday is in favour of everything. I think I have your understanding. But let's talk openly. Our Government, like the previous one, is under suffocating pressure, under threats that are incompatible with European ideals. A pressure to accept a programme which, unlike previous governments, was elected to question it as to its logic. I want to tell you something simple. If it was a bitter, healing medicine, which pressures us to swallow for our own good, I would suggest that we swallow it. If I thought that our retreat and acceptance of the memorial "run" programme, which in essence remains the same since 2010, at some point even difficult, even with pain, would get Greece out of the crisis, I would suggest that we move on, retreat, without dogmatism and egoism. But I don't believe it. At this point I would like to say to the opposition that, regardless of our disagreements, my personal conviction is that our European partners have been unwilling to your government. I would like to say that the failure of the previous three governments, not just of the previous government, to catch their goals, is not due to lack of competence in implementing the programme. It is because, as John Maynard Kanes said about the Treaty of Versailles: "the strong ones imposed on the defeated conditions that they had no right to impose, and at the same time the loser accepted and had no right to accept, because it was impossible to fulfil." Thus, with the first Memorandum in May 2010, with the second one at the beginning of 2012, and with its amendment at the end of 2012. As much as it is true that the previous governments have slipped into the reforms, especially in the face of what I call'mutualism', the truth is that this adjustment programme was doomed to fail, whoever implemented it. Even its successes, such as the transition to a primary surplus, strengthened deflation and strengthened a ruthless macroeconomic dynamic that undermined even good efforts. The reason was simple. Since 2008, when the International Financial System collapsed at Wall Street and a year later Europe has entered the deep recession, it was for some of us that the Greek state would cease to be able to refinance its large public debt, to say without euphemism. The Greek State went bankrupt in 2010. A problem, unfortunately, of bankruptcy was dealt with as if it were a liquidity problem. This is how the biggest loan was given to history in the bankrupt state of the Eurozone, under terms that shrunk incomes, of which both old and new loans had to be repaid. It did not have to be an economist to see that this policy could not have a happy ending. It did not have to be an economist to understand that the feasts and festivals in May 2010 for the major loan that they gave us were based on a toxic fantasy that would lead Greece to mathematical accuracy in stone years and Europe at the completion, given that our'rescue' in introductorys, our memorandum, was essentially the model for dealing with the crisis elsewhere, so that the crisis would expand from Greece to the bond markets first and then through intervention - the firefighting, Mr. Draghi, in the summer of 2012, this crisis would make a metastase, as cancer, and hit the productive tissue of the country, not just of the country, but of the whole of Europe, resulting in the frustration that is today destroying the future competitiveness of Europe. The great hope of the before rulers and the troika was that the reforms would be the ones to trigger the self-supported crisis, debt, recession and investment. But what have escaped them is that the reforms, especially when its priorities are wrong and when macroparasitism is left to its silence and are aimed only at some selected forms of microparasitism, are rejected by a society in despair as a foreign body. When the triangle of the sin of manufacturers, cartels, banks, the media is left intact, while the workers and the small and medium-sized ones lose their ground under their feet and the unbelievable establishment shows them the finger, saying "we eat them," the reform case has been lost. Especially when the list of reforms has not been born here, but has come by e-mail or fax from Washington from the International Monetary Fund. In order not to tire you, the end of the crisis will not come if we say another 'yes' to the programme being implemented. How nice it would be if the medicine were bitter, not healing. We'd take it without a deal, and we'd have our heads in peace. We could not run to Brussels at any moment and go back to our ministries. Unfortunately, the so-called medicine, ladies and gentlemen, is toxic. And worst of all, the physician knows that. He just has undertakings to keep giving it to us, even though he knows and himself admits that he's wrong, he doesn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea that a country, without substantial bank credit, with its productive tissue collapsed, with workers who are impoverished, unemployed, unpaid, with an unreasonable public debt, will be able to get away from darkness, as a result of a primary surplus of 4.5% over the next few years, this idea makes any serious economist around the world to move the head in despair. Everyone knows that getting out of the crisis with such commitments and under such conditions is not meant. Even the troika knows. They admit it as long as the microphones are closed. They don't admit it when the microphones open. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for what is said behind closed doors and when microphones are closed, to be said in the European public debate. As long as this bilingualism, which exacerbates the great crisis of the country and the great deflation of the Eurozone, is the only winners of Europe, the enemies of democracy, those who invest in hatred and intolerance. Many wonder: Why this bilingualism? Why this obsession with failed policies? Even neoliberal bankers from Wall Street or City of London agree. They judge the policy in which the European Union insists, unscrupulous and disastrous. The reason is simple: for years they misled their Members and people, telling them that the Memorandum was a sign of European solidarity in their lazy Greeks, in the Spanish, in the Portuguese, in the Irish and in the region. The truth, of course, was different. With regard to the first memorandum, it was an act of solidarity, but solidarity with the Banks of Northern Europe, where it resulted in 90% of the euros we received. According to BIS, the international, if you like, of the central banks of the West, the first memorandum allowed the banks of Germany and France to get rid of hundreds of billions of Greek debt at their nominal value, while its market value had decreased by 81%. That is what we mean by'socialism exclusively for bankers'. That was why - if you remember - in 2010-2011 the phrase 'debt restructuring' was considered national treason. But when this cynic transfer of bank losses was completed and these losses were carried over to the shoulders of the poorest taxpayers, not only Greece but also Europe, then we suddenly had debt restructuring, which we called PSI. It was a huge 'cut' that hit the insurance funds, the private bond holders, the banks of Cyprus and, of course, again the Greek taxpayer, who was borrowed by our partners, in favour of the Greek banks this time. Today, five years later, the crisis that began in Wall Street in 2008, which devastated Greece, the cleanest part of the Eurozone architecture, this same crisis has become a metastasy and has gone everywhere. It has penetrated people's negative expectations across Europe, strengthening deflation. The European Central Bank - badly lying - has a goal in accordance with its statute: inflation slightly less than 2% and avoid deflation. The European Central Bank - like all of us - has failed to do so. It has lost control of monetary policy. He's caught in the brutal trap of negative inflation. I have tired of all this for one reason: to explain why, instead of taking the easy path to the agreement, with what we are pressing for, we need a new debate on the substance of the problem. Because the policies that require us to swallow are part of the problem and not of the real medicine, not just for us, but for the whole of Europe. Finally, someone must say 'no'. The clergy again fell in small Greece to say this 'no'. It seems our fate has it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the negotiations that have already begun, we are coming with a single request: to give us the opportunity to present our views, our proposals. On the other hand, from the first moment we were elected, before we were sworn as MPs, we were put in the throat, saying, "whether you sign or...". Our firm response, where we have been, and where we have spoken, whether here or in Europe, outside Greece, is simple: here we have two conflicting principles. Respectful, both. On the one hand, there is the continuation of the state, the commitment that the previous governments have accepted for the current programme. That commitment is respected. On the other hand, however, there is also a new popular mandate to question the logic of this programme. This must also be respected, unless we agree that in a country which is in a programme in Europe the elections should be abolished. So I ask a crisis question for all of us: How can these two authorities marry? Isn't that, after all, democracy itself? Marrying conflicting principles. Our proposal is this: neither will we break the current programme nor will you demand its blind implementation, as if there were no elections. As serious companies do, smart contractors, when changing data agree that there will be a transitional period, a bridge between contracts, between the existing agreement and a new one that will ensure sufficient time for both parties to hold discussions and consultations that will produce a mutually beneficial, new agreement. That is what we are asking for agreement now, a bridge between the Memorandum of Understanding and a new 'Symbol', as we say, between Greece and Europe, which will put the country on the path of reconstruction and enable Europe to regain credibility towards all its peoples. What do we undertake to do during these few months of the bridge? We will not, ladies and gentlemen, make any move to derail the budget, any move that will reduce the primary surplus of 2015 from the level at which it closed, around 1.5%. We will table and put forward deep reforms in cooperation with the OECD, whose Secretary-General, Mr Angel Gouria, comes to Athens tomorrow with a view to helping us - he and his organisation - to the excellent planning of reforms and the transparent and effective monitoring of their implementation. In these reforms we will add about 70% of the reforms or commitments that exist in the existing memorandum, commitments with which, as wise people, we have no objection, since of course 30%, which we consider unacceptable is either suspended or removed. We propose, in cooperation with our partners and with the European Commission, that we draw up together the plan to combat the humanitarian crisis that has arisen as a result of the European policies of refusal and the failures of the Greek governments and the Greek society. Is it over? Troika ending, as our lenders themselves have already accepted! What do we mean 'troika' to be clear? I do not mean the three institutions to which Greece belongs, namely the International Monetary Fund to which we belong from Breton Woods, the European Central Bank which is our central bank or the European Commission to which we are the European Union. What do we mean by the word 'troika'? We mean the step of technocrats who come with colonial behavior in Greece and who are not authorized to discuss the philosophy of the program with us. This is over. This is our proposal for the bridge agreement that will allow us to proceed with a serious review of our agreement with our lenders, with our partners, in terms of macro-dynamic analysis, primary surpluses, debt restructuring, and the deep reforms that will follow in the agreement that will come next. Are we asking for a lot? I think we're asking for self-evident. Our people's mandate does not give us the right to make our heads. We have eighteen other mandates from other democratic countries. One right gives us, to ask to be heard, to be given a few weeks to submit our views and from there on our mandate has the same value and strength, strength and legal status as theirs. As I said to my French counterpart, Mr Sapen, it is time to return to a basic principle of Jean Monet, at the beginning that if we come to the negotiating table and sit on opposite sides of the table and everyone starts to say what he thought would say, the chances of failure are great. But if we all sit together on the same side of the table and put the problem across, the chances of resolving and agreeing are maximized. With this philosophy we went to Paris, Frankfurt, Berlin, Rome, and with that philosophy we will be coming to the Eurogroup on Wednesday. Our aim is the European perspective and interest of the European average, not of the Greek average, not of the Slovak average, not of the German average. Because the interest of the Greek average is also in the interest of the European average. On staff - and so I will close - you should know that because I will be closed, as the fellow Members who have done this know, and have been in those incredibly unpleasant Brussels halls, where you have been closed alone for too many hours, I will come to this Chamber with the following thoughts: Firstly, I will think that I represent not only 40% of the people who voted for us, but also 60% who did not vote for us. I will keep in mind, on the one hand, the touching exhortations of the world not to do behind our national and European duty to find a solution. I will remember the agony of Constantine Karamanlis to put and keep Greece in the European family. I will remember at the same time the hard but useful criticism of the Communist Party of Greece for a cartel Europe that considers democracy decorative and tolerable, only to the extent that elections do not change anything. Above all, however, I will remember the lesson that Andreas Papandreou taught us, which some forgot, that "yes, man" does not respect him either. At the same time, I guarantee that I will try to say 'yes' to every honest and reasonable proposal that does not deepen the crisis, which does not give it any further impetus. Neither yes, man, nor no, man. Just European citizens who know how to defend Europe's interests, standing up against policies that may be majority in Europe today, but which are brutally affecting Europe and democracy. Finally, while we are closed in those rooms, I would like to believe that there will be no Greek soul, there will be no one in Parliament or outside Parliament who, as the black marketmen of occupation prayed, will say 'Westa, Rommel'. I take the view that we will have you and everyone with us, and I commit - and I say this to you - as Minister of Finance of a rugged economy that we will try to rectify all of us together, that in this Chamber from me there will never be any disquiet or controversy with any colleague, particularly the Controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u65	We thank the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, for his speech, but also for his parliamentary commitment to inform him of the economic situation first of all in Parliament. It is no coincidence that the first parliamentary minister to speak is also the first to speak. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "Electronics VENIZELOS" Hall and after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and students and seven teachers from the 2nd High School Leros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides]] Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Mitsotakis has requested the floor. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, it is precedent for the other speeches to be made. Here, Mr Mitsotakis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Minister for Finance, the government's programming positions, as presented by the Prime Minister, will not be of particular interest in further discussion if somehow this difficult negotiation has not been concluded to which the country has entered. From the outset, I would like to say to you and to the House, but also to the Greek citizens, that you are coming in this negotiation with Parliament's support, with the support of course of Officerial Response, in order to achieve a solution that is nationally beneficial, which can bring the country back to a development path, without jeopardising the European acquis for which great leaders have been fighting before us. I want to be quite clear and clear: we have absolutely no intention, Minister of Finance, to see you as a 'left parenthesis'. No intention, because if this happens, it will mean that the negotiations have collapsed and that the worst scenario for the country has been confirmed. This is something that I can assure you that no one in this Chamber wants. I am pleased that you, too, have seen that the real negotiation is a difficult matter. The negotiation takes place behind closed doors, and it is sometimes with speakers you have publicly renounced, because I understand that you have had the opportunity to meet with Mr Tomsen and Mr Vizer and Mr Costellos, in other words with the representatives of the troika with whom we were speaking. You can see that these discussions are not easy at all and that they require substantial realism and responsibility which does not always respond and is not always in line with the political speech, which is articulated with great ease of opposition or possibly even after the advent of power. I see in your words a turn in political realism. I welcome this shift in political realism. I am not sure that I saw it in the Prime Minister's speech yesterday. But I am pleased to note that, after your position today, we can say 'yes, there is here an institutional, memorable majority', once you accept 70% of the reforms of the existing memorandum. But I'll come to that later. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister was right when he said that the House expresses popular sovereignty. But the parliament must also exercise leadership and a good leader is the one who can balance at all times between his principles, but also between the requirements of political realism. It is a great leader who sometimes rises up against the demands of public opinion and can see the national interest, beyond emotional outbursts of the moment. That's what Eleftherios Venizelos did. He went against the demands of the public and imposed a review rather than a drafting parliament. Of course Constantine Karamanlis - to whom you referred - did so when he insisted on putting Greece into the European Union, in the EEC of that time, at the same time as the country was vigilant by the slogan 'EEC and NATO in the same trade union'. And at this level of circumstances we must stand and stand by you today. What matters above all is Greece always in Europe. That is the key post, that is the non-negotiable post, in which I believe that almost everyone in this Chamber is in agreement. I look at the Chamber and I see several new colleagues of our generation. Besides, the Prime Minister belongs to our generation. This generation - you know - has a lot of good, but it also has a disadvantage. In our generation we lack the experience of Greece outside Europe. And I am not only talking about the indiscriminate memories that we may have of what the Greek drachma meant, what it meant to wait in the tails together with citizens from third world countries. What we have secured above all is a geopolitical stable, the'safe port' of Europe in which Constantine Karamanlis put us. That's exactly what they secured us. And the European leaders who have fought precisely for this European ideal, which I am sure, Mr Minister, that you believe, too, have been forced to reconcile with the'street stitch' of the European suit. And they did this because they had met wars, they had experienced famines, they had experienced ethnic divisions, and I am sure they did not want to live again and we do not want to relive them. I therefore call on you as the country's main negotiator at this critical juncture to complete this adaptation to political realism, which you have started and not stayed posture. Besides, you are well aware that time is suffocating. There is still room for an honest solution, which will allow us to get away from the memorials and austerity, but without jeopardising the country's European course. You said you needed time to be able to present your program. But I must point out to my fellow Members that you were the ones who caused the early elections. You were the ones who accelerated political time. And come today to ask you for time to present your plan, it shows what we also told you in the election, that you are not finally ready to rule. If you want time, Minister - and we really need him today, because the next ten days will be extremely critical - you have nothing but to ask for the existing programme to be extended to ensure the time necessary to present your own reform initiatives. You know, too, and I imagine that you have seen it from the tour you have made in European countries, that we do not have as a country the allies we would expect. You know that well and you mentioned the fact that sometimes, yes, things are said behind closed doors, which should not be said publicly. Indeed, I think it is unpleasant and it is not good for the Italian Minister for Finance to come out today and empty you on the ground. It is not just you, but the country, because you have actually revealed some things, which may have been said behind closed doors. They are not, Minister of Finance, so the alliances in Europe are not built. It is also clear that the South alliance, in which SYRIZA colleagues look forward to having collapsed, has also collapsed. It just doesn't exist. The hardest critics of the SYRIZA toughline today are Portugal, Spain, Ireland, countries that went through the memorandum. There are unfortunately no allies in Europe today in this policy that you want to develop. And I want it to be clear. You have indeed received a mandate from the Greek people. The command was to reach a better deal. You have not, however, been authorised to drive the country into a collision orbit with Europe. The negotiation must respect the rules, correlations and procedures in Europe. We cannot, under any circumstances, invest in the rupture. And because there has been a lot of talk in this Chamber, and from the Prime Minister, on the Constitution, and we have all been vowed to believe in the Constitution, I would like to remind you and to remind colleagues that there is also Article 28 of the Constitution, which provides the possibility, under conditions, of granting national sovereignty to supranational institutions. Don't miss that little detail. We are part of a European family and popular sovereignty is exercised within the limits that our participation in Europe wants. We, Minister, therefore, support this effort on the absolute condition that you will not jeopardise the country's European course. So, can we agree today also here in a framework that is mutually acceptable and which can be the basis for a genuine negotiation? Yeah, I think we can agree. In my view, this framework must have three pillars. It is a framework which I believe is good for the country. It leaves the austerity policies behind, without returning to the age of deficits, and of course it promotes reforms with a national figure that is, first of all, a need for the country. So who are these three pillars of this framework in which we could agree? First, debt settlement and not derecognition of nominal value. Debt settlement. And it is important that there is already a transition to the rhetoric of the government, at least SYRIZA - I am not sure of the views of the Independent Greeks on this point - from nominal debt deletion to an indirect haircut, with an extension of the repayment period and a reduction in interest rates, so that we can end up with an indirect debt write-off, which can facilitate cash flows over the next few years. This is a pillar in which we can invest. You can, however, press on this perspective, precisely because the previous government, this party, the New Democracy, succeeded with great sacrifices by the citizens, to achieve primary surpluses, which you have invoked today. Because if there were no primary surpluses, there would be no agreement in November 2012, which allows us to discuss this indirect debt haircut today. So step on an achievement of the previous government. You do well and press on this achievement, but it is good sometimes when you talk about a rugged economy to recognise and that the rectification of public finances, which was achieved with great sacrifices by Greek citizens, was a success throughout the country and therefore a success on which you can invest. The second pillar of a possible agreement is the smaller primary surpluses. Yes, I agree with you, and I think many economists also agree that it is practically impossible for an economy that is slowly coming back on course of recovery to produce primary surpluses of 4.5%. And you will have to negotiate smaller primary surpluses of 1.5% -2%, which will be able to free you from budgetary resources to policy. And of course, there are ideological differences. We would prefer these surpluses to return them to the citizens, through a reduction in taxes, while you may choose something different. In any case, however, the objective of achieving smaller budgetary surpluses is possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will ask for two or three minutes of my dentistry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u67	There will be tolerance, as was the case with previous speakers. It's not deducted from your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much. But the central prerequisite for you to achieve these two objectives, Minister, is to agree and agree as a country in a consistent and coherent reform programme. I must point out that what you said today, that 70% of the reform of the memorandum is in the right direction - you did not say it for the first time, you said it in Germany too - I hear it very positive. It's really like that. And we must finally get away from populism in this Chamber and say some great truths. What is the memorandum, ladies and gentlemen? The memorandum is not just a loan contract. It is also a framework of regulation and reform, a road map of changes which we in this country should have implemented. And yes, we should never implement them under the bolt of some foreign creditors. And we ourselves should assume the responsibility of promoting these reforms. The question I raise, however, is this: did Mr Tsipras speak yesterday in this direction? Has it moved in the direction of promoting a convincing account of reforms, which can be the third pillar of this agreement that we can shape with Europe? I'm afraid not. I hope I'm wrong. I repeat to you: I hope I am wrong, but with the "block" of the important reforms carried out by the previous government, we are not on the right track. I shall have the opportunity to refer to the proposals for public administration, which were made by both the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible, who are moving in the completely wrong direction from that, which I am referring to. Therefore, we should be able to agree at last to put aside the wooden election speech and reach an agreement in a framework of reforms, which are absolutely essential. Some agree without asterisks and footnotes, such as combating tax evasion, a fair and sustainable insurance system. But I wonder how we will achieve this fair and sustainable insurance system. Supporting the weak. Yes, support for the weak, but I did not hear a single word about the minimum guaranteed income from the Prime Minister yesterday, which is the most important tool we have today for real social policy. So put forward, Minister, an essential framework for reforms. We're not going to agree on everything. There are considerable ideological differences between us. But we can agree on a key pillar. And above all, do not start with the logic that you receive a country that is rugged. No, it's not a broken country. And if you can negotiate today, you can negotiate, because you are stepping on the successes of the previous government. I wish you could reach a better deal, so that we too can finally be free as a country. Free with or without tie, with one, two, three "n", or as you want to write your own name. We are free to exercise national policy at last, to be truly sovereign! However, if we are to be able to achieve this, you must come to this debate with a very specific context, leaving aside the extreme krone which, unfortunately, has been heard so far in this Chamber. If you do this, seventy - six New Democracy MPs will give you their support. But if you do not, even if - the non-sexual - you drive the country into great adventures, the responsibility will be entirely yours. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. However, I should like to express the hope that the seventy-seven Members of the New Democracy will also be visible from the Chair because this is unfortunately not the case in the last few hours. Now I would like to remind you, since there has been a reference to the Constitution, what Article 28 of the Constitution says. I think it is useful for everyone and for the debate: ‘1. The generally acknowledged rules of international law, as well as international conventions, since their ratification by law and entry into force under the terms of each of them, form an integral part of the domestic Greek law and prevail from any other law. The application of international law and international conventions to foreigners is always subject to reciprocity. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. In order to serve a great national interest and to promote cooperation with other States, it may be recognised, by treaty or agreement, to the institutions of international organisations provided for in the Constitution. A three-fifths majority of the total number of Members is required to vote in favour of this treaty or agreement. 3. Greece shall freely, by means of a law passed by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, restrict the exercise of its national sovereignty, as long as it is dictated by a great national interest, do not affect human rights and the foundations of the democratic culture and shall be made on the basis of the principles of equality and reciprocity." I would simply remind you that the overall Memorandum has passed without such provisions, i.e. without ratification of signature agreements, with legislative acts and, of course, without the procedure laid down in Article 28 of the Constitution. I have to clarify this in order to remove any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u70	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u71	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u72	I do not want to go into the essence of your remarks. However, I would like to reflect on the fact that you have made this intervention. You should understand that you are the President of Parliament and that your role is not to comment on the position of Members, of Parliamentary Representatives or of Ministers. I imagine that you understand that and you will perform your duties as President of Parliament, with the necessary integrity that the Constitution itself imposes. I listened carefully to your speech, which you made at the time of taking up your duties. It was a politically charged speech. I think everyone recognises the right, especially in your first, maiden speech, to express opinions which have these strong political features. I would ask you, however, on behalf of the Vice-President not to use the presidency's privilege of intervening in the debate, which, in my view, goes beyond the framework of the Presidency of the Parliament, in which you were elected by a large majority and with the votes of the Officerial Representation and my own personally, and that is why we wish you every success. Because so far I believe that we can have a very good cooperation on matters of keeping the Rules of Procedure, for which I am absolutely sure you will be strict, I would ask you to either limit them or make use of the Rules of Procedure, which allows you, when you want to make political intervention, to leave the seat and to speak as a mere MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u73	Mr Mitsotakis, thank you for your remarks. It is in the duties of the President of Parliament to ensure the free expression of the Members' opinion and the observance of the Constitution. I believe that the reminder of the provision of the Constitution, of Article 28, and the explicit assurance that this will be fully respected falls within the competences recognised by the Rules and the Constitution, but of course you have the right to express your criticism. Alas, if we get the review done. Now you will allow me to give the floor to the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u74	Colleagues and colleagues, the personal and collective responsibility of the groups that support the current government, and we are coming to a substantial debate on the real programming declarations of this new government. But you will allow me to make a first comment, because obviously the election period is still fresh and we have not forgotten. The right criticism to SYRIZA, on the part of creditors, and on the part of most of the parties to the opposition, is that it remains firm in its election commitments, committed to the requirements of democracy and the vote of the Greek people. I think, however, and I believe that this is not the case for the Police Vice-Population Party, which is still committed to the logic of 'I have said'. I am explaining: I think that when the dominant demand is from the New Democracy, the predominant argument is that the 'boneba' comes or in any case that the country is leading to great adventures, today we hear that one of the first proposals put forward to the new government is to incorporate the minimum guaranteed income into its programme. How is this done, ladies and gentlemen, when the previous memorial storm, the grand and barbaric social policy sent out two hundred thousand young people from that country to compulsory immigration and when one and a half million citizens are not simply deprived of the minimum income, but are they deprived of their constitutional right to work, public education and public health? Therefore, the Greek people have not accepted lobotomy and thankfully we are still at a moment and at a historic juncture that requires the people to be the great guarantor of this government's pre-election and post-election commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few things about the new political leadership in the Ministry of National Defence and some of the proposals that we believe can be put into orbit in the next period and which have no particular cost, but I would say that some of them and have zero costs and are radical in their character and in the positive result that we need. I think that when the Greek people hear the term 'equipments', it creeps out. And it creeps out well, because in Postmopolitanism, from 1974 to 2010, Greece has spent a total of half an annual GDP on imports of weapons systems. At regular intervals, the issue of military supplies, particularly as regards mediation and the personal benefit of some, and operators and persons, within and outside Greece, arises from expensive imports of weapons. One could say that what has been done and done in this country has been read, analysed, but perhaps we have not seen all the light and the whole moon. There's still a dark side. We do not want to remind ourselves that a former Minister is in prison and another party leader today is in an investigation into these issues. However, apart from the scandalous dimension, which is mediatic - but we are not media, we are a Parliament and we must analyse, teach and produce institutions and shields of a moral, social and legal nature, in order to protect the interests of the Greek people - the whole issue of arms import remains in obscurity. That is why we have a duty to move forward in large areas, not only in parliamentary areas, but also in institutional frameworks which will enable the Armed Forces to do what they do today to protect the territorial integrity of the country and democracy. But it is of great importance, dear friends and friends, to find out what is of particular importance and why public debt today has been the main cause of the economic crisis, but also the main weapon of our lenders. Because of them, there is a very large proportion of the accumulated debt in Transpoliticism for the import of weapons systems. During the period of government debt accumulation from Migration until 2010, according to the International Institute for Research in Stockholm - fully documented - our country introduced weapons systems mainly from three allies, of total value without interest, as I said before, half of annual GDP at steady 1990 prices. Most of the public debt corresponds to expenditure on these weapons systems and interest accumulated in order to serve these markets. We probably had the same defensive armour as 1/4 of the money spent and spent by the Greek people and paid with blood and tears, especially in the last four years. I think it is of particular value to stress that this new government and the new political leadership at the Ministry of National Defence prioritises the social role of the Armed Forces in conditions of poverty and humanitarian crisis of the Greek people. That is why the great and effective health infrastructure available to the Armed Forces and part of this infrastructure must be placed in the most vulnerable social groups, those who today do not have the opportunity, cannot dream or vision that they can visit a doctor at the nearest hospital. However, we have contributed and there is social policy. We will not close the predecessors and the previous governments. Of course, both in the natural disasters and these days in Evros, in the flooding and in what happened in Arta, reported by Ms. Gerovasi, there were ready units to assist, the Municipal Engineering Order in Iannina and the 4th Army Body. Day after night for three days, our soldiers have been working on fire by digging larger dams and preventing overflowing to overcome the catastrophe we had with the evacuation of two villages. We therefore consider that the issue of defence is a dominant issue today in the humanitarian crisis, and that is why the uniforms, staff themselves, human resources within the Armed Forces, and this is part of the Greek people, which has accepted in recent years up to 43% of the wages and pensions for retired people. Therefore, the decision of the CSR cannot be - and I say it directly, without populism - an executioner directly, even though the judicial decision says so. It matters how we speak with all the actors, with all the staff, with the leadership from top to bottom, in order to heal the injuries, always respecting the decision of the court within a reasonable period of time. Of course, the great adventure of our country is to break the size of lenders, the size of debt, the size of liberalism and inextricably privatization and neoliberal policy, which leads all and more layers of youth and people in that country to enter unemployment on a permanent basis. The second issue we consider to be very important is the defence industry. There are seven state factories scattered throughout the country, which have expensive machinery, with know-how. However, when we moved on to these horizontal procedures of voluntary workers, it was never taken into account who are leaving, leaving and prevailing customer logic and customer relationship. The result is to run orders today, which are necessary for the public revenues of our country and state, but cannot be executed because we have machinery, but we do not have human resources. This is a huge problem, so that we can execute these orders that run and are very important, not because they have to make revenue, but because if these orders are not executed on time, they will be lost customers and will not be easily found again, while we have the ability to attract more and more clients to the defence industry, apart from the domestic need of the Armed Forces for the Armed Forces, through armed and military diplomacy. The embassies of our country do not have, most of them, military followers and should have them, so that they can promote international diplomacy and the issues of attracting clients to the defence industry, because this really is a great reconstruction of a productive model in heavy industry, which is, of course, defence systems. Coordination also needs joint projects between military schools and public universities, so as to continue the osmosis and process of greater efficiency in graduates, not only here in Greece, but also in foreigners who have been considerably reduced. It is not only value added in money and at economic cost, but it is also the ambassadors of our country who, when they come to these schools, go back to their homelands equipped, not simply trained and acquainted with the Greek soul and hospitality. In conclusion, I will mention two points that I think are very important: It is very important that the return to the HICP of these minimal assets that have left the Armed Forces. It's not much. However, they must be repaid for one basic reason, because this huge property of the Armed Forces must be placed in conditions of poverty and humanitarian crisis in a synergy, particularly in the large urban centres that have abandoned camps, along with the local authorities, together with the institutions, together with public health and public education, not only for immigrants, who deserve what they deserve, but also for Greek citizens, who are now growing and becoming more and more intolerable. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] Therefore, this property must be put into synergy with local government and institutions. I'll talk about the transfer, and I'll hang up with it. Is it not a rhetorical question: will the chains of the political system break if the "switch" as the youth says? Will you feel, ladies and gentlemen, free from this customer relationship, which has created huge problems in the rationalisation of our soldiers in the territory, or will we remain on the logic that Athens, Thessaloniki, Larissa and the Peloponnese will have a staff of over 200% -300% and will we go to the border regions with much smaller staffing rates? That's not all. It is not only about youth, which should not be led to such procedures, to such logically, but should be able to do so. That is why we will implement a pilot scheme, in cooperation with the relevant parliamentary committee, where all parties will be able to participate in this pilot scheme, which will include everyone's social and economic situation, so as to examine it, pass through a system that is fully transparent and which the parliamentary committee will be able to monitor and, if necessary, punish those who have violated it. It is very important that we move away from this customer structure and logic, which only harms the mindset of our people, the mindset of youth, but also creates enormous problems of effectiveness in the Armed Forces. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I ask for a minute, Madam President, and I shall be done. So if you ask me what the odds are and what the statistical percentages you would give to achieve this, I would give you a reply, if necessary, little. But our political will is 100%, and it must be the whole political system and this House, so that we can move on to this unbelievable path. Ladies and gentlemen, because the term 'Europe' is heard - and it is not just a geographical term, as Europe is a field of geopolitical, class and social interests, expressed in political and political relations - not to speak abstractly. There is no possibility of a bridge between the government and the opposition. This is certain, because the vision and faithful implementation of the memorandum by the older governments cannot be married, cannot be harmonised, cannot be in common and in common with the visions of this people, with the commitments of this government, which must continue unequivocally on the road to restore the dignity of this country, national and popular sovereignty and the real democracy. Many writers and philosophers were invited. Finally, I would appeal to Edward Galiano when he was asked by a farmer to some extent what Utopia is. He said to him: "I don't know if I'm going to answer you and you're going to understand me, but it's important to look forward, walk unbelievably and look at the sun high in the sky." So far we've gone back and forth, and that can't be Utopia or vision. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are choosing this people to stand up, to stand vigorously on the side of that river with all the peoples of Europe, who have not yet heard their loudest voice. We're at the beginning, but this river will run out and no villages will be evacuated, but neoliberalism will be evacuated from the valley that gave birth to him in Berlin. Be sure of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Quiet. I invite Mr. Panagiotis Kartasoulis from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Prime Minister's Programmatic Statements, a significant part of his references to changes in governance and, in particular, public administration have taken place. However, while references to the necessity of reform, the corresponding references to their content and, in particular, their way of implementing and monitoring them, were extremely pitiful. They were reminiscent of the general announcements of strengthening the rule of law and combating the bureaucracy we have heard that it has been repeated for decades and, of course, has not taken place. The Prime Minister's announcements were more reminiscent of the triumphant wishes announced by the New Democracy and the PASOK, the parties that produced and established the client state. It is not enough to diffuse measures and general references to cover the lack of a project. How can the party's decoupling of the state be achieved, i.e. the pathogen that led public administration to paralysis, the destruction of resources and the rule of law in misery? Potami, however, will not oppose announcements without content, replacing slogans with other slogans. We opposition will only do with substantiated proposals that respond to real problems. And here we are immediately what we mean: The Prime Minister said he would restore the prestige of the rule of law, which in previous government was severely eaten by extraordinary legislative procedures through legislative acts. The point is correct, and we welcome it. We will be here, but we will monitor its implementation. Of course, we will not tolerate the repetition of legislative acronyms with whole bills hiding, stumbling and provoking many times, under one single article. We hope that the government will respect the principles of good legislation, which only upgrade the rule of law. There was also a reference to the institutional reconstruction of the State, whose content is again equivalent to its barbaric title. As an example, the structure of the new government, which has fewer ministries than the previous ones, has been mentioned. That's right. There is a nominal reduction in ministries and an effort to match them to policy areas. But again the good news stops in the first word. Forty-two Ministers and - look, please - Deputy Ministers, i.e. normal ministers, are conspiring under ten ministries. What is the difference with the practice of previous governments, where under Ministries with imaginable names were the entire Ministries concealed? We have not heard a single word about the tabaker, namely the twenty-three thousand regulatory powers which make up the labyrinth in which Minotaur lives and reigns. How will they be reduced? What's the plan? What's the timeline? Instead, we have heard about new organograms by the ministries and sub-ministries within the next six months which will make the ministries operational and not artificially attached. We'll wait for it. It was mentioned by the Prime Minister that the 30% reduction in the staff of the Grand Maximos was made. We welcome it as a symbolic move to rationalise and curb waste. However, we have heard nothing about the thousands of six hundred and thirty-five legal entities governed by public law financed by the State budget, without any monitoring and evaluation of their work. How many of sixty-three legal persons for education and how many of the three hundred legal persons for health produce work justifying the continuation of their existence and their funding? The Prime Minister has also referred to public administration staff issues. Concentrated on the reoccupation of cleaners and school guards. That's right and fair. But let us also keep the footnote're-institutionalisation of those who have been justified', that is to say, re-insertion for those who have been made redundant, who declare their dismissal unconstitutional decisions to be unconstitutional. If that is what the government means, then the fired have a long way to go, since the first final decision has not yet been adopted. However, there was not a single reference to a new system for the promotion of public administration's human capital, only general references to a new system of evaluation and selection of directors. Potami has presented a comprehensive plan to highlight the excellent public administration, in which we propose linking the evaluation with position profiles and with a modern record, the supervision of which must guarantee an independent authority of the type APA. Only then can the umbilical cord of the state and the party be cut off, so alone can the reward of the excellent and punishment of the fewer, through a new disciplinary law, which has also been announced. We need a new vision that will stimulate the people of administration, a vision that will be able to bridge the artificial division that has been cultivated in large parts of the Greek society between 'bad' public officials and 'good' private sector officials. For this public administration, systematic efforts and sufficient resources are needed. We need to learn from others, from our European partners, who have been practicing us in our reform efforts for decades. That is why an unspeakable European orientation is required, which is not at all evident in the SYRIZA Government's Programmatic Declarations with the declared anti-European anti-Europeanists of the Independent Greeks. Potami states that it is unnecessarily necessary for the country's European orientation. He will strive to lead Greece to strengthen democratisation and the credibility of the institutions of the European Union. We want Greece to be actively involved in the European process. It is not the role of a partner who is enclosed in his Balkan microcosm. Greece is the heart of Europe and will remain so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Cartassouli. I would like to inform my colleagues that the list of speakers is ready. As I told you and this morning, the list would be ready at 16.00 p.m. The time is 15.50 ́, so you have him at your disposal and a little earlier. You can, seeing the directory, be scheduled for the afternoon session and the next. In the meantime, I would like to ask that we agree to allow more fellow Members to speak in this first part of the debate, to extend our sitting until 17.00 p.m. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u78	The House unanimously agreed. Mr. Christos Mandas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, we live in moments of history, we live hours that condense the desire of millions of people and not only in our country, for dignity, justice and solidarity, for the demand that people be above the profits, the demand for overthrowing the disastrous austerity, the struggle to break the neoliberal capitalist model of development, which threatens our standard of living and not only. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I can't go on like this. I'd beg my colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Mada, it's my job and I'm sorry. I would ask all my fellow Members to sit in their seats, not to have a turbulence and a fuss during the speaking time. Likewise, I would ask that there be quiet in the Chair. Mr. Mada, I'm fixing your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u81	The list isn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u82	That is why I said that you will all have the list during the interruption in order to be scheduled. All those who are going to speak are informed by their parties because they are on the lists the parties have handed over. Those who are registered with their card are those who have not been informed by their parties and therefore you do not need to stress that you may speak in the next hour. You'll have the comfort of programming, seeing the list. Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u83	I'm still where I stopped. So the struggle to break the neoliberal capitalist model of development, which threatens not only our standard of living, not only public wealth and the environment, but also human values themselves, such as from the era of Enlightenment and manipulation, where land was established. All this and many others together, which are not easily reflected in words, are already in the heart and soul of millions of people who smile and are moved, who protest and demand, as another air, another wind is breathing in the country and the peoples of all of Europe. Allow me at this point to make a small comment on what was mainly heard by the Civic Opposition. Some people wonder here what the Memorandum is and do that they do not understand and move us and do not understand that they do lobbying in the elites of the lenders and the elites of Europe. They do not understand that they are doing what they are doing to rejoice or mean that they are happy, because, he says, the South alliance collapsed and hypocritically they do not see that people's time is coming in both Spain and Portugal and Ireland and everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, the moments are critical and this is a common place. But, just on this common place, two radically different policies now emerge. We have lived for one thing, with dramatic consequences for the country, for young people, for the world of work, for social goods, for democracy, of course not for those who have increased their billions in this crisis. The other is the one that unfolds through the government's programming announcements, but also with the already experienced little time experience of governance with the dominant left seal. So we keep our word and that is our great strength. We do not say artificially: 'Let us abandon our commitments or break and throw the country on the rocks'. We say negotiation, tough negotiation, we say yes to the long path of overthrowing this situation as it has been, not only in our country, but also in Europe. For us, social goods, such as health and education, are an unnegotiable priority. For our Government these are dominant fields of human dignity. That is why our plan does not provide for uninsured careless and literary illiterates. No, of course, because we are more sensitive at individual level, nor because we can simply morally manage public resources, but precisely because we have a radically different conception of social goods as non-negotiable values and at the same time integrate them into another concept of productive reconstruction and the productive model that we will build. It is not just a more rational approach to abolishing, for example, the issue bank as an obligation to impose a specific form of examination, which has brought out misconduct. It is at the same time, and above all, respect for the need for our adolescents, girls and boys, for a framework of freedom, even if not only at the level of time, which is the necessary, the scope of freedom, that is to say, for the full development of young people. It is not just a more rational approach to providing, for example, mental health services in the place of each citizen of that country, to have a system in which services will have a specific geographical and population area of responsibility. At the same time, and above all, another concept of an approach at community level, for one thing Community care and prevention, with emphasis on children and adolescents. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the right to our side. Law is with the world of work, with the poor and despised, with their peoples of Europe. Law gives us strength, determination, cooling, correct assessment of correlation, but also the necessary momentum to succeed. And we'll make it! With these words I support and vote for the government's Programmatic Declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Mada. I invite the Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Mr. Theodore Dritsa. You have the floor for fourteen minutes, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have undertaken in times of crisis a Ministry that has threefold responsibility: to set up final plans and also to check their implementation for the development of all maritime sectors, to develop policies for islands and to exercise political supervision at the multilevel and difficult work of the Port Authority - Greek Coast Guard. This ministry needs to change. In our country, shipping as a whole and in all its sectors must not only be promoted, of course, as the flagship of the economy, but the productive activity that is exploiting to the fullest extent possible and gaining the invaluable supply of workers, while at the same time contributing to the maximisation of social benefits. In the new landscape, in the new great change anticipated by Greek society in and from historical government change, it is our obligation to change much. Three major issues, however, are of immediate priority. The first is the drastic reduction in the unemployment of seafarers and the requalification of the seafarer's profession. We have already announced at the delivery and receipt ceremony of the Ministry our invitation in every direction for a new, strong and sustainable agreement that will create jobs for Greek seafarers, particularly in the waterfront, on the coastline and on the tourist boats. A lot of solutions can be considered. However, a sound agreement cannot be a stable condition for collective bargaining. The second is the termination of the unpaid work of seafarers, a phenomenon which mainly concerns the coastline and even appears on vessels operating on a public-support basis. At the meeting with the representatives of the Vessel Union, we have taken the assurance that at the latest by Easter there will be no seafarer unpaid. We are already studying combined measures to miss this phenomenon. But we already have a problem and the Piraeus - Kythera - Antikytheros connection line is threatened by such a cause. They must all take their responsibilities. We'll take them. The third is the smooth and regular conduct of all scheduled routes and the minimisation of cases of non-implementation by any reason. We have already decided to carry out technical checks so that very soon the Ministry will have a full picture of the timely prevention of defects that are escaping ships. This is a practice that had been successfully implemented in the past and had been interrupted in recent years. At the same time, we aim at this first phase of planning in the reopening of high-definition lines, which have been interrupted for several reasons, such as trying to reconnect Ithaca and Kefalonia with Patras. Our policy, of course, does not end here. In fact, we must - and that is what we will do - include what has been said and much more in a medium-term planning in all areas of the Ministry's responsibility. For this medium - long-term planning I will refer to critical areas: firstly, shipping podium is undoubtedly the most dynamic sector of Greek shipping activity. The fact that this is an internationalised activity does not at all reduce the advantages that the Greek flag ensures. We want the Greek flag strong in global shipping. However, it is clearly a one-sided decline in the contribution of the Greek state and of the Greek society, especially seafarers, to this dynamism. Especially today, in the conditions of the economic and social destruction that our people are experiencing, there is an urgent need to increase the return of armaments to Greek society. This return must include, above all, strengthening employment, as mentioned above, but also expanding on other issues. We have already announced our commitment to stop privatising the PPA and the Thessaloniki Port Authority and guaranteeing the public character of the ports of the country. The debate on the development of the public port industry in the direction of the country's productive reconstruction has already begun so that through a generalised consultation ports can become strategic axes in the new period. Where we have already established the exploitation of ports or of marina by private individuals, the four prerequisites are: firstly, the safeguarding of labour rights; secondly, the protection of the environment; thirdly, the safeguarding of small and medium-sized enterprises in this production activity, with a view to increasing added value and social benefit; and fourthly, transparency. The integration of major ports into the Trans-European Transport Network, the exploitation of workers and their experience in this process, the effective connection of ports with local communities and their involvement in management and control of their operation are some of the prerequisites for the overall project. The deliberate depreciation of public ports over a number of years, with the aim of privatising them, has caused explosive and urgent problems. There are ports, particularly Heraklion, Volos and Thessaloniki, which, due to the lack of staff of critical specialists, are threatened with collapse. All port agencies will be called upon to put this issue first, much more so that its solution will improve both productive activity and profitability. In the same direction, we will also be moving towards supporting and reorganising the Navigation Agency, which also brings revenues, of course, as a critical public service. It is also a critical issue for the large ports, and above all Piraeus, that the installation of a ship power system is also a crucial issue, so that the operating costs for the vessels on the coast are reduced and environmental protection is strengthened. Finally, an urgent matter for the operation of ports is the management of ship waste, by eliminating the phenomena of opaque monopolistic practices, which also bears the costs of operating ships, and environmental protection becomes non-existent, but at the same time unacceptable phenomena of interoperable and corruption are being created. Already, after the attempt at corruption at the Port Authority of Corfu, we are going on to review all the waste management contracts in all the ports of the country. Of course, the existing institutional framework will also be reviewed. Our design also includes the public navigation network and the reform of the institutional framework. An important tool will be the public maritime transport operator, an objective that we set for consultation. The island links with waterplanes will also add new possibilities for the development of the islands and not only. Secondly, seafaring with guaranteed rights, reduced compositions, operational contracts, the safety ship and many other neoliberal cuts or even memorandum inventions lead to depreciation of work and have no development benefits, as has already been demonstrated. Thirdly, public structures to find maritime work will be supported to effectively hit the brokerage exploitation circuits. Fourthly, the recruitment of seafarers is a definitive past. Fifthly, modernising the maritime trade union movement is an overtime demand. Sixth, the objective is to guarantee, redesign and enhance public free maritime education on the basis of modern requirements, to exploit trained training staff and to support substantially the particular contribution of seafarers, to extend maritime education and to inferior crews, to support student living conditions. Seventh, guarantee pensions and health care for seafarers and their families. NAT must be able to collect the insurance contributions due. It needs modernization and staffing. It has other problems, both institutional and regulatory. We'll see them in the next space. Eighth, the Natus House can and must have a separate place in the primary care system, ensuring the priority service of seafarers. The public body of the ship repair industry is a difficult task, but it is extremely necessary. The large shipyards want a great reorganization. The Shipbuilding Zone in Perama and the smaller shipyards cannot survive and develop unless they are integrated into a centralised design. All of this refers to our overall view as the Ministry of Economy - formerly developed - and that is why one ministry complements the other under one general supervision, which we can organise general strategies. The aim is to strengthen short sea shipping, support professional tourist boats, generalised upgrading of island policy by the activation of the Institute and Council of Island Policy, the application of the Isle of Insularity clause to important legislation, the generalisation of the responsibility of the Ministry throughout the island and not just in the Aegean, with a series of targeted combined interventions. Sustainable maritime connections and island intercom are a constant priority. In particular, for small islands, a crucial issue is also their integrated public water supply and the provision of health and education services. For the new Greece to be born, islanders must stay on their islands. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I shall make a special reference to the Hellenic Coast Guard. We are aiming at upgrading its social mission, ensuring its democratic functioning and the realisation of its members. Our aim is to redesign the organisation and operation of the Hellenic Coast Guard - Greek Coast Guard to deal effectively with the current challenges, regarding organised crime, smuggling, tax evasion, maritime safety, protection of the sea environment, control of sea borders, research and rescue at sea and others. All this requires serious effort and serious involvement with time-consuming issues, overripe, which remain unsolved. Legal system for classification, education, retraining, hierarchy, developments and crises. This issue is very important for a democratic body that has to carry out such a mission. Introduction of executives to productive schools in a democratic, fair and non-discriminatory manner. Practices that have given rise to many complaints about the diabetic of examinations in the past, I hope that they will actually be a past and we will try in every way and commit ourselves in this direction. The upgrading of education and retraining, the writing of modern writings on productive schools - which I would like to inform you that they do not even exist - are high-compensation investments in line with modern needs. There are still a number of other issues. In our view, it is also necessary to support the representatives of the Port Authority in a variety of ways, and one of these is the maintenance of the Relief Fund, which is not charged with the state budget, and of course directly the granting of the necessary extension by 30-6-2015, in order to achieve the ultimate objective of abolishing Article 220 of the Treaty. 4281/2014 and to restore the functioning of a assistance and support that there is no reason to be abolished. Care to ensure that there is no surprise, no overthrow of family planning and much more. In front of us is a step forward, we will face it. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for all these plans - and many others - to be implemented, of course - and the necessary reform measures, we need a different Ministry of Shipping and the Aegean, without irrationalism, without imperialism, without confusing roles and responsibilities. The planning services of all maritime sectors must be gradually and, after a serious study and consultation of the Ministry's political structures, with the upgraded use of both the civil staff and the representatives of the Port Authority with invaluable expertise and experience. In this direction, our programming objectives are: Upgrading the role of the Ministry's civil staff. The creation of new functional organograms. The development of necessary tools for the development of the NSRP by strengthening the staffing and certification of the relevant management. Institutional and operational interventions to control ships, to ensure the safety of human life at sea and to prevent accidents, to protect the marine environment. Special care for the staffing and upgrading of the Maritime Inspection and the exploitation of e-government capabilities in critical commercial maritime operating areas. It is not possible to proceed directly to such shallow interventions. However, these are designs that will be in place right now, so that they can be studied at the right time. All of this relates to the management and register of registered vessels, the management of shipping operations, the issue of ship certificates required for departure and harmonisation with international regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have completed the presentation of the main programming positions for the Ministry of Shipping and the Aegean. From now on, on the basis of this framework, and in difficult circumstances and in cooperation with all those involved in shipping and the Ministry, we are starting to try to solve problems and remove chronic diseases. Our commitment is to work for a democratic ministry and for a policy of navigation and insularity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Katsotis, I would like to inform you that the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, Mrs Fotio, will shortly speak from the government. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Election by the JRC, inter alia, said of the new SYRIZA Government: ‘The Memorandums and the Loan Convention will not abolish them, but will be renegotiated, in compliance with the commitments under the European Union institutional framework, the memorandums on lasting, permanent surveillance’. We have said that SYRIZA will be led to a new agreement, that is to say a new memorandum, no matter what it will be called. It will probably be called a ‘new contract’. Debt acknowledges it - we said - and will negotiate the way in which the people will pay for it. We were just saying that what the workers lost in the crisis is not going to bring it back. It will only give some crustaceans to those who have a family income under 800 euros, namely those who are in extreme poverty. The anti-American, anti-American framework will leave it intact, at the same time as it promises monopolies and capital tax exemptions and a favourable environment for their profits and investments. We said that it would respect budgetary stability and remain faithful to the balanced budgets, i.e. to austerity as well as so-called expenditure on education, health, welfare, etc. In the first few days of the year, we have many statements by the Prime Minister and the Ministers, but also the Programming Declarations, which confirm all of this. SYRIZA also campaigned the motto "And Europe is changing". The European Union, which is leading the people of Europe, does not change, regardless of the management mix that SYRIZA is carrying out, because it is precisely an organisation of capitalists and cannot be prologue. It was created, created and updated by capitalists to serve, shield their sovereignty, strengthen their competitiveness, their profits. It's hostile to the workers, the populace. And your policy, moving within the walls, will be objectively anti-popular. The European Union's Europe 2020 strategy has set itself the objective of supporting, by all means, the European monopolies - to be profitable and competitive in relation to American, Chinese, Russian and others - with measures that hit labour rights. This objective is served by a number of mechanisms, including the so-called 'new economic governance', the Stability Pact, the European Semester. The coup d'état is committed to implementing this framework, which provides for dangerous anti-grassroots measures and tough systematic checks. The Spring Council in March adopts guidelines and assesses the progress of the Member States. In April each Member State shall submit a stability programme. In May - June, the programme was checked and compliance recommendations were issued, and government budgets were then formed and controlled, based on the cut in wages, pensions, social services funds, the abolition of labour security rights, the strengthening of capital. This is the mechanism of ongoing surveillance. These are the lasting memorials that conflict is trying to hide. But the people have to know them and take their measures, oppose them without losing any time. In this anti-lingual context, the government is moving. The negotiation, however it may be, is not about the people's needs. The motto 'end the austerity' is not about the workers, the people. It concerns business groups, the lack of liquidity in the market, the channelling of money to businesses through banks and the State, in order to support investments which in the current circumstances are difficult to achieve. It has nothing to do with this austerity with that of workers, the popular layers in their pockets, their inability to meet their basic needs. International capitalist organizations are currently speaking against austerity policy. For the working class, the folk layers, a mere life. That is what the Minister of Finance said, as, of course, the Prime Minister said in the Programming Declarations. The working class, the poor people's layers under the power of capital, have always been few, despite the unstoppable wealth they have produced. The bourgeois class, which was about the wealth produced by the workers, lived and continued to live in the child. For them, the lengthy life will continue. On the basis of the European Union's decisions on reforms, strengthening competitiveness, creating the friendly environment, investment and the line of life are also being adapted to the election announcements of convergence. He said that SYRIZA’s announcements of EUR 751 lead neither directly nor legally to the restoration of the minimum wage to the level that applied until 2012. The Programming Statements show that the minimum wage to EUR 751 will be paid gradually by 2016. And this through the BSE, SETE and GSE negotiations. It will not, in other words, be done by a law, as you were saying in the election. As with a law, a reduction to EUR 586 and EUR 511 respectively was made. Efforts are predominant in industrial relations, temporary poorly paid jobs, the awkwardness of the rental of workers and slave trade offices, partial and rotational employment, the one-day contract, a few hours, which specifically break young people and women, the generalized apprenticeship in each contract, every protocol of agreement and the apprenticeship agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Madam President. For what you denounced loudly before the elections, there has now been no talk. Sectoral collective bargaining has not been signed in many branches and, of course, the jungle of individual contracts of employment is dominated by associations of people. They're not in the Programming Declarations either. The government is preparing to renew programmes, continue to support business groups. They are programmes that cover real unemployment. The difference with the statements is that the programmes will be extended from five to nine or eleven months. Not a word has been said to increase the unemployment benefit and the grant time. Not a word, of course, to abolish all these decisions that reduce the subsidy for seasonal workers, particularly to tourism. Today one of the ten unemployed is subsidized. The problem of unemployment, of course, is a big issue and cannot be solved in this system, in this form of organization of the economy. The Government follows the same practice in the social security system. What happened, he says, with the robbery of the reserves. There's just going to be an investigation, like the Prime Minister said here. Those who have been removed from pensioners are invited to forget about them. What will be given is the Christmas gift for those who get up to 700 euros. What did the Minister of Finance say? "For those who take 300 euros, what is it to give another 300 euros?" So this is the essence of the insurance that the government will shape in the next period. To be happy with the workers and pensioners who will not do the worst, the Prime Minister says. We won't apply the mail Hardouvelis. But that's why the pensioners, the workers, the people who were on the streets all the previous years? To avoid applying Hardouvel's mail or to replace the major losses they have had over the previous years? Finally, we say that the JRC will give all its powers so that the struggles against real power, the real adversary, which are monopolies and their authority, can bring the people to their knees. The dividing line is ‘monopoly or people’. We cannot be with monopolies and people. That can't be. The system doesn't change. It does not become more human through the changes of governments. The JRC submits a number of demands put forward by the trade unions. And, of course, with proposals for a law, it will reintroduce all these issues concerning the unemployed, the collective agreements, the minimum wage, social security and labour relations. For the time being, we are tabling these proposals on the Minutes and of course we are voting against the government's programming statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Although the ministers are entitled to speak whenever they request, it is my request to the government that one of the two ministers who have been announced speak. Mr. Xanthos and Mrs. Fotou have been announced. I would ask that she speak during this period, until we have interrupted, only Mrs Fotou and Mr Xanthos should speak after the interruption, so that we can give the opportunity to hear more Members. I would ask Mr Katanas Harisios to come to Stepma from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that I have stood in this sacred position of the Greek Parliament and I must admit that the sense of honour but, above all, the responsibility lies with me. The debate on a government's programme statements has always marked a new start for the country. But today is not just another beginning of another government, as we at least knew today. From the time the first memorandum was passed and the country was immersed in a prolonged crisis, the government's recommendation with its programming declarations gained some other meaning, since our country was tested with the range of bankruptcy. However, continuity, as we all understand, is a difficult one. The Independent Greeks agree that the future of Greece lies within the European family, but we want an equal role. Our wish is for the European Union to defend the nations - states and their solidarity. That is why the government, with the moves it has already taken, defends not only the interests of our country, but also the interests of other European Union countries in a similar position, such as the countries of the European South. We support the clear negotiating mandate given by the Greek people in the elections on 25 January. Number of economists from all the lengths and backs of the earth admitted that the Greek debt cannot be served. It has not only been numerically increased to EUR 315 billion, it has also reached unthinkable levels in relation to GDP, at 176%. The austerity that has been imposed on us has strangled the country's real economy. In order to bring about long-term growth, we need a simple, stable, fair tax system for at least ten years with constitutional safeguards. Especially for entrepreneurship, the Independent Greeks have as a priority the radical reform of business conditions, focusing on new businesses. Our proposal is to create an ecosystem for the promotion of newly-born businesses, not only in the field of technology and IT, but in the whole business environment. Thanks to this ecosystem we will prevent young entrepreneurs from leaving abroad, a trend that deprives Greece not only of the economic benefits, but above all the cradle of our young scientists. At the same time, however, we will make Greece a popular destination for foreign businesses who want to exploit the well-trained and competitive human resources produced by Greek universities. This ecosystem will give incentives to newly-born enterprises throughout Greece, focusing mainly on remote areas - incentives not only economic but also functionally - promoting cooperation between newly-born enterprises, extroversion, but also the exploitation of cutting edge technologies in a reliable environment. At the same time, through the interconnection of the Greek universities with the newly-born businesses, the problem of youth unemployment will be addressed in its roots and youth entrepreneurship will be promoted throughout the country's lengths and backs. Our priority in the trade sector is to simplify and facilitate trade between companies across and out of the border. By exploiting the potential of modern technology, we are proposing to create a digital service of a stopover for all trade, eliminating bureaucracy and gray processes that afflict commercial companies. The aim is to remove commercial companies from customer relations with the State and, by exploiting the possibilities offered by technology, to focus on their real goal, to produce a project. At the same time, thanks to purely electronic transactions, tax evasion will be eliminated and VAT yield automaticised, which will allow for tax and other incentives for healthy businesses. At the same time, through this system, commercial enterprises will gain direct and transparent access to sources of financing, drawing the necessary liquidity, both for their survival and for their expansion within and outside the borders. Faithful in our principles and in our founding declaration we Independent Greeks will support every effort to ensure the decent and human living of all Greeks, as our Constitution protects. Finally, I must assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are neither fascists nor anti-Europeans, contrary to others, who are dependent on interests in the Independent Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Katana. I ask Mrs. Fofi Gennimata from PASOK to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make an initial assumption. All of us, despite the different approaches, agree that our country is in a historic turning point. The critical objective today is to finalise the crisis with safe steps, to further improve the conditions for repayment of public debt and, of course, to effectively address the pathogens of the state and the productive model that brought us here. To this end, it is worth achieving the greatest possible national understanding. For future historians, I believe that the period of postmultiple will be completed by the closure of this cycle. That is why we support the government's negotiation abroad, but a negotiation which is difficult to involve in the government of an anti-European party. PASOK was and remains a patriotic party, with a clear European orientation. We proved it in practice. We do not wish the disaster to come. On the contrary, we hope for the best possible result. A few days after his election, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras took care to assure our European partners that his government would not take any unilateral action. Regardless of the style of Ministers' announcements - in the past others have torn apart, while they have never managed to find one billion of the 18 billion equivalents of the three Zappies - what matters is the result. In any case, this government will be judged by itself: not by the way in which it negotiates, but by its outcome, if it succeeds, that is to say, in having better results than the previous government has secured or started and would certainly be done if the elections were not announced. And not to play with words, the memorandum ended in December. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government must succeed in committing our partners to a lesser primary surplus, achieving new parametric changes in debt, prolonging terminations and a grace period, defending the application of the precautionary credit line, and, finally, the troika must leave because we have heard absolutely nothing about it so far. We expect you to achieve at least everything that was already under way. That is why a two-month extension was agreed and not a six-month extension. You have to explain to the Greek Parliament what you mean when you talk about a bridge programme, with which consequences, in what direction, in what funding and commitments. You haven't told us anything at all. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said the government will be judged by the citizens. Only a few days have passed since the elections and the announcements are far from the main election announcements of SYRIZA. The deletion of debt, the cancellation with an article of all law enforcement, the restoration of incomes at the pre-crisis levels and the Thessaloniki program are already in the time of history. Instead, we have heard fragmentary benefits, without a clear timetable, without guaranteed funding and allegedly restoring injustices in words, without any specific plan. I would really like to express my disappointment at the fact that a Government of the radical Left does not have to present a development plan for the place, which will respond to the concerns of young people for employment. We have also heard nothing about tourism, culture, rural development and the primary sector. I would like to remind you - because it was heard yesterday - that when Andreas Papandreou said in 1981 it was time to hand over power to the people, because that is where he comes from, the PASOK governments created the middle class and moved to sectors and rifts in the state, particularly with an emphasis on decentralisation by self-government. Your Programming Statements show no intention of strengthening self-government. You have not dared to talk about tax decentralisation, which will ensure tools for social and development policy in the municipalities and regions of the country. In the field of education in the 1980s, the objective was the democratization of universities. In previous years, we have tried to improve distortions in the management system. Today, the aim is to connect the university to production, you insist on changes in terms of the past. You have been awarded the Generation Solidarity Fund and you have renamed it to a National Rich and Social Security Fund. There is already! It's institutionalized. You are talking about restoring injustices and you are confined to a vague reference, in perpetual, in food, housing and electricity. What are you going to do with the minimum guaranteed income? Will you abolish it and lead to further degradation of the quality of life of these people? Where? Some ghetto? With what resources will you support those who are today experiencing exclusion? You have to give specific answers. Since when will the tax-free limit of EUR 12 000 apply to whom? Who will be charged with the cost of the new system that will replace ENPIA? Because of course you spoke about the abolition of the ENPIA. Today the abolition was replaced by a new real estate tax. You should inform the Greek Parliament of how to collect this EUR 3.3 billion tax, as the target obviously does not change. How will this money be collected? Who's gonna pay for this change? The Halandri? The Argirupolis? The Metamorphosis? Because what we understand is that you're going to break the middle class. I could say too much, but I don't have time. You promised a lot. We'll be here to remind you of them. This government's Programmatic Declarations were a landscape in the mist. Nonetheless, ours is not at all. We support the government's negotiation abroad. After all, we have been talking about a national negotiating team since 2012, and I say this, because many in this Chamber, when we were fighting, have been demoralising us from the stands. A government, however, which is taking over at this juncture must have a realistic negotiating proposal and an integrated plan for the future of the country. Unfortunately, this is not the result of the Programmatic Declarations by the members of the government that we have heard, but of the uncoordinated post-elections. Now is the time to judge for difficult works and not by easy words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. As it is Parliament's first sessions and it makes sense for a number of Members to be confused, I would like to remind you that the extra-parliamentary ministers are sitting at the headquarters of the government. Mr. Thanasis Petrakos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, some must think that the Greek people have suffered lobotomy. The representatives of PASOK cannot come out on the stage - who have thrown the country on the rocks, destroyed the Greek economy and society, destroyed the middle-class - and indulge the SYRIZA for his policy and programme commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, then, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras’ programming commitments have shown that this government has come to faithfully serve the people’s mandate. That is why 75% of the Greek people support the government and it is unprecedented after elections. For the first time after five years of harsh memoranda of politicians, tens of thousands of citizens have been spontaneously expelled - and I stress it - in the streets and squares to express their support for the government of their country. That is why, on Wednesday, February 11th, the people will flood the Constitution and the squares of all major cities in order to send a palal message against austerity, because austerity concerns workers and not entrepreneurs, against the memoranda and in favour of democracy and the advancement. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament must also write its own story. All Members must therefore be proud of the first publications in the international press. After the Prime Minister's programme commitments last night, they said: 'The newspaper 'The GUARDIAN': 'Tsipras puts the poor and the unemployed as a priority towards the creditors'. The CNN also points out: "The Greek Prime Minister intends to respect his election commitments." Yes, the new government came to change political customs. She came to keep her election promises. He came to break the tradition that the election promises remained empty. The new government is not going to disprove the people. The programme commitments are the programme with which we called for the Greek people's vote. It is a coherent programme which can bring the country and the people out of the deep economic disaster to which the Memorandum and Memorandum governments have led him over the past five years. It is a programme that can lead the people to productive reconstruction. The key areas for productive reconstruction are banking and energy. That is why the amendment of the CFS law announced by the Prime Minister, so that the public can fully exercise its rights to systemic banks, the regulation of red loans and dues, but above all the establishment of a public development bank, to finance small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers, are necessary for the relaunch of the economy, for the reconstruction of the productive sectors of the economy and above all of the rural economy. The rural world cannot cultivate, because it has stopped all funding for farmers, since the PASOK and the New Democracy have also given a banner from the top of Mr Sala the Agricultural Bank. Public control, therefore, in systemic banks and the creation of a public development bank can give farmers the necessary liquidity. This together with the reduction in production costs and the establishment of national and sectoral policies on basic agricultural products are the alpha for the regeneration of the rural economy. The government of SYRIZA will proceed, as the Prime Minister has promised, to set up a national policy on extra virgin olive oil, which is the number one Greek product, so that Greek olive producers are actually compensated for their trouble. The Prime Minister has also pledged to our prefecture that he will take all necessary steps to ensure that all the oil of Messinia is PDO. Ladies and gentlemen, an important factor, which can strengthen not only agricultural but also industrial production, but also any production activity, is the reduction of energy costs, as the Minister for Production has announced. A prerequisite for reducing energy costs is the existence of a strong, public energy pillar and, above all, a strong, public PPC, which the governments have destroyed with their policies over the last fifteen years. This is why the new government immediately announced the cancellation of the privatisation of IPTO and the "little" PPC and the reintroduction of 17% of PPC's shares, as well as 35% of ELPE's shares, so that the public can exercise the rights deriving from the ownership regime to PPC and ELPE. In the electricity field, things are now marginal, as costs have been expelled to unthinkable heights. Hundreds of thousands of households are in extreme poverty and have remained without access to electricity, Madame PASOK spokesman. What remains of the country's heavy industry is kneeled by the deadly combination of economic recession and high energy costs. The failure of the electricity market results, first of all, from the failure of the energy planning of the last fifteen years, with the distorting, irresponsible and overlapping economic interests allegedly open up the market, a design that was essentially a tool for supporting tachographs, private investment and, indeed, with indirect or direct subsidy from public money. Ten billion has been allocated over the last fifteen years. Let's remember. Ladies and gentlemen, on Tuesday night each and every member of the National Representation must consider and give a positive vote of confidence to the new government of Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. He needs to think about those words he wrote on the Internet last night, a free professional, Sotiris, who said: "HIS HISH had made me very difficult. The 26% tax from the first euro led me not to be able to support my three children. It was a terrible situation I'd arrived at. Today, the Prime Minister's Programming Declarations saved me. They saved my children from seeing their father in a state that would be stigmatized for the rest of their lives. Within the week that comes with the first revenues I will pay the delayed dose of ENPIA." It is worth putting back on this government. Yeah, it's worth putting the whole House back on that government. It is worth putting all the Greek people in this government on Wednesday, all the citizens of this country, in order to loudly hear our country's cry for dignity in a common language with all the peoples of Europe, so that they can hear it, together with Yanis Varoufakis, in a room in Brussels. However, none of them, who threw Greece on the rocks from PASOK and New Democracy, are entitled to make suggestions today, because the memorial and implementing laws are the turmoil in the neck of the Greek economy and society and the new government of the country will take it out of the neck of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Petrakos. I call to the Step Mr. Cryazides. He is the last speaker to speak. It will be followed by Mrs Theanoo Fotio, with whom we will be adjourning, which will be the last Deputy Minister. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our people in the election campaign on 25 January, persuaded by SYRIZA's splendid and endless announcements, has chosen a new governance for our country, in which I wish good success for the good of our country and nation. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the wishes are not enough to achieve the government's work. It's not enough hope and promises to run the country. It is not enough to strike the back, to continue statements and credentials that you give the people, by expressing their words, rightfully or unjustly, on the part of all complaining citizens. The time has already come when the thick words must be done and, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, the rounding, abundance and abstractions began. In other words, 'good morning' is already seen by a mismatch of words, works and actions, first of all with all the debt issues and the rescue programme. The SYRIZA's pre-election post for debt write-off, for international auditing, for an international conference, in order to reduce it, in any case, went for a walk. Instead, as we have all seen yesterday, the new government is blowing and putting an antimony and abstractly contrary to the programme in question. It is sliding under the circumstances to request an extension not just of a programme but of the current memorandum. Was that, gentlemen of SYRIZA, your election position? Is that why the Greek people chose you? To ask for an extension of a bad memorandum, which you have reported on every occasion? The memorial of the recession and the destruction of the place? As long as, of course, if you're trying to change his name, identity, and I don't know what else, it's still part of the rescue program that you were accusing of on the night. It will be of great interest for the Greek people to see the anti-immemorial party of SYRIZA requesting, approving and voting for an extension of a memorial with the contents of which, as today and recently, we have been informed, through the mouth of the Minister of Finance, contains 67% regulations and reforms with which you agree. The Minister for Finance pointed out here that there were successes from the outgoing government, such as the primary surplus. "We will not tear anything apart," the Minister of Economy said. Of course, for 30%, this remnant, 'we will ask for suspension or some removal of this data'. These, gentlemen of the government, why didn't you tell the Greek people? Why, gentlemen of SYRIZA, did you not speak the language of the truth, but did you let her serve after the elections? Really, why didn't you vote for any of the reforms of the previous government, since they are 70% correct? I believe that there is a major political issue and you must account for the people. Because the people were touched by your own words, which prove to be hollow before you even get a vote of confidence. Because the people did not choose New Democracy, which would eventually end the memorandum on 28-2-2015, but SYRIZA, to overthrow it with "good morning", with an article, as you said. Is that, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the overthrow? Is the re-establishment of foreign surveillance mechanisms even through an environment of hard conflict with partners? Honestly, I am amazed at your conversion, which resembles these subtle Russian ballet pirates. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody says that the government has bad intentions. No politician, I appreciate, who is in here, has bad intentions. On the contrary, we are all struggling and interested in the well-known national interest. However, the moves you make are particularly amateur and appropriate to an excellent report of ideas. They are therefore inapplicable and empty content. They are, of course, temporary satisfaction with the anger of the people, but none at all. They are being edited and advertised for the people's sake with the corresponding media projection, but unfortunately they are far from the harsh reality of the crisis and the management command you have received from the electorate. You cannot oppose being in the government as the real reality awaits you. A reality that obliges you to be realistically commanded by a country in crisis, a country which, like those that you are evangelizing, has led it here, threatening it to go further than where it started in 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, populism is an incurable disease, a disease of our political system, which must have an end to the good of our country. The logic of giving him too has given me a bar, of breaking the public coral, of sharing money from the misery of our people must end once and for all. As a matter of fact, you will end 'before you call three', because none of our European partners will finance benefits. None of the Europeans will lend a country that does not comply with European rules. No one is going to finance a government to give birth to new debts, to get money to make them available, to get the money and sacrifice them on the altar of election promises, so that it can be consistent with what it has said, so that it can guard the people's vote. Gentlemen of the government, you must enter the field of reason and politically feasible. Developments at European level must concern us. The total refusal of our partners to accept the proposals - although we would all like them to be accepted - proves a great deal. It demonstrates above all that it may not have been treacherous, dominating, bavragoritic, the previous government, as your officials like and even today the Minister of Economy to mention and describe the past government. The outgoing government was not ultimately a government of national cutbacks, as you describe it with various "world" surnames, but a government committed to realism and to the feasibility, a government that may have made mistakes, but which never played the country in the dice. Mistakes have been made, as I have said, but these mistakes have not cost the country and, above all, they have not made it unresolved in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the country must function completely institutionally. Cheap stimulation and open offense to partners must stop, they must have an end. The 'go back' of Mrs Merkel, Mr Shoeble''s 'go back' and the other election rallys must be in the past because they are good or bad. I wish, of course, we didn't need them, but unfortunately we do. I must say, of course, that we went from the 'go back' to the intellectual Dr. Symble, which shows that you are finally adapting to reality. The same is apparent in principle of accepting the objective of achieving at least primaryly balanced budgets, which gives rise to a greedy hope that perhaps the extreme impulse will pass. You are actually entering the logic, the political feasibility, which, if it is the case, should be welcomed, not only by saying hello, but also by supporting it with our vote in bills that will move into a reformist orbit. Everything that is beneficial to the country, as the New Democracy has officially stated, will benefit from the recognition and acceptance of Officer Response and I personally. I now come to an issue that touches most on the issue of the Greek Police. You have received a police force worthy, functional and efficient, and so you must keep it. Abolition or deterioration of policing structures which exist for the sake of normality and social peace will not allow them by the police world and society. Police are not a knit cloth cut and sewn by the beam. It is an independent institution of the state, and so it must remain. In this context, I will not allow thousands of fellow citizens, from my past capacity, to appear to be dismantling, rehabilitating or degrading this institution, which is self-determination. You have a duty and responsibility, Minister, as an academic teacher and lawyer, to ensure that the Greek police are worthy, but also not to allow policies or other practices to intimidate those that we have seen in the past and from where they come from. The Citizens' Counsel is an institution, which the President-in-Office presently present did not adopt, and the opposition and current government did not vote. I am sure that, in the context described above, the new political leadership of the Ministry will work in a spirit of mutual trust and respect with the physical leadership of the Greek Police and the Greek police for the good of the body and our country. Of course, the change of labels does not mean changing the content and, of course, nothing was heard about the government's compliance with the decision of the Council of State on refunds in respect of the mandates retroactively. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end with one wish alone: to have wisdom and logic for the good of our country. Otherwise, I am very afraid that developments will be rapid and the one who will be called upon to pay for the marble will again be the Greek people, in whose name you were called to rule for better days, which are not at present seen. Unfortunately, it is not visible and the horizon is very dark. I cannot vote for the Programming Declarations, I cannot give a vote of confidence, because the content is unknown, it is not specific what has been mentioned so far. We will obviously be waiting after Wednesday for the contents, but then the vote will have already been taken. I think, however, that in this case too, you do not apply what you were saying in the election, there is no correlation between words and works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEVERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the 1st Elementary School of Paramithias Thesprotia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on Mrs Theano Fotio in Step, with which we will close, Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity. Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the policies of austerity, the memorials imposed in our country, have created an unprecedented situation. Who? Greece, a European country, at a time of peace, is experiencing the results of a war! The results of this undeclared war are the humanitarian crisis. What does a humanitarian crisis mean? It means two and a half million families living below the poverty line. They do not, in other words, have, since you spoke about the minimum guaranteed income, nor EUR 500 a month to live four people. They are unable to pay for electricity, water, housing, malnutrition, no medical care, cannot be moved to search for work, the unemployed beings and you. The parallel collapse of the social state has extended the characteristics of the humanitarian crisis and left the vulnerable social strata, which are multiplying rapidly, unprotectedly to experience desperation and despair. The humanitarian crisis, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is the extreme expression of unemployment, disinvestment and internal devaluation. The humanitarian crisis Greece is experiencing is the scary face of the memorials. What are our partners saying these days in the meetings, Mr Varoufakis, our President and Prime Minister of the country? They are told that the humanitarian crisis in Greece is a reproach for the European process, to which they would like to help, the partners say. But under what condition? On condition that we continue the policies of austerity, memoranda and primary surpluses to serve a debt, which everyone knows will not be paid. That is exactly the point of irrationality, that is the horrifying hypocrisy. The Greeks don't ask for masses. A job they're asking for. They ask for their dignity, the dignity of work and not the guilt of charity. That is what our Government is negotiating today, that will negotiate there on Wednesday, that is to say a plan that will deliver over the next few years the possibility of work and reintegrating the victims of the humanitarian crisis actively into society - not benefits. But now, given this situation, the first objective of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity is of course to tackle the humanitarian crisis with an integrated grid of emergency interventions, as described in the first pillar of our programme in the IGC, in order to protect the victims of the crisis and, at the same time, to activate and participate in a new social awareness of solidarity, participation and collective organisation. We don't want to give them a plate of food. We want them to be involved in this story. To participate and to organise collectively. The victims of the crisis are not a part of our society, who seek charity. We want them from the first moment, now, active citizens, who are involved in all this effort, who are involved in this task, so that our country can emerge from the crisis at the same time. So we are going to deal with what you know, which all the Greek people know, that is to say, the need for electricity and for the diet of thousands of abundant families. Indicatively we say three hundred thousand and say that, for example, it remains to be proved. We've started a great effort to find this. For you have not told us who they are to date. You didn't tell us. We will address housing needs with apartments for abominable families and say, again, for thirty thousand families. We will provide a special travel card for public transport to long-term unemployed people and those living below the poverty line and, at the same time, there will be the other three measures that complement these four: restoration of the Christmas gift as a third pension to those receiving pensions of up to EUR 700, free medical care for uninsured unemployed and, finally, abolishing the equalisation of excise duty on heating and driving and, of course, subsidising heating. What do these seven measures require for them to be done? How do we plan on planning them? Firstly, coordination of the relevant ministries of Labour, Health, Productive Reconstruction, Education, Development and Economy. Fortunately we have a small shape and we can work together. Secondly, recording the real needs and direct identification of the beneficiaries. This is the extremely difficult, ladies and gentlemen, and colleagues. In other words, rapid imprinting and mapping of the present situation at regional and local level should be carried out. Thirdly, the regions, the municipalities, the Church of Greece, the civil society organisations, accredited and informal, are our natural allies and our immediate partners, who will seek to coordinate to identify every family that really needs. Our aim is to establish an umbrella of networks of social solidarity at local and regional level of all the above components, which will cooperate with procedures for effective consultation and participation of citizens, taking advantage of them and not taking advantage of them. We want cooperation with the solidarity movements that are developing in these years of the crisis in Greece. Their development by slogan: "Nobody alone in the crisis, restoring the number of suicides," created new cells of social formation, democracy and self-management. In these cells of a new model of social formation active, fascism and racism do not enter. We therefore want the great experience of all these networks, which have acquired a shocking know-how of poverty. They can feed the world from nothing. We have a great know-how at the moment of poverty, registered and certified through us and our experience, not by seals. They are seeds and hybrids of a new social formation. This experience we want to integrate into our policies, as well as actions that the people themselves created to cope with the crisis, displaying huge reserves of imagination, courage, dignity, solidarity. We are inspired by these new models and will encourage them at this stage in every way. Today, movements of solidarity and collectiveness from across Europe come to study and strengthen these unprecedented actions of the Greek people. You are aware of the social hospitals, which are spread throughout Greece, and which are made up of large groups of doctors, nurses and fellow citizens, who are voluntaryly serving thousands of destitute and insecure fellow citizens. We believe that all these actions bring to today the thread of historical memory, when the people, that is, rise to survive, as they did in possession, as the EAM did. The first pillar, therefore, of our programme is to ensure basic living conditions for all residents who are victims of the humanitarian crisis and to participate in the social process. We will immediately mobilise the public social protection system. We will make use of and accelerate all the opportunities available to us by Community funds, the national strategy for social inclusion, the European Fund for the Deprived, the FEAD. We will, as already foreseen, review the 2014-2020 EPA, namely the Partnership Agreement, the new ESDP, at the level of planning and specialisation. All actions, heating, power, training, work, consultancy, etc. are directed at the poor and excluded and are linked to the objective of integration through work, as are the regional operational programmes from the NSRP drawn up in the regions which are currently awaiting specialisation of our policies, the government, and which you have not done. To address the lack of housing, we will reconstitute and broaden the role of the Labour Residence Agency in a Social Residence Organization and use empty apartments and commenting on public property for this. In particular, we will focus on dealing with child poverty, aged zero to seventeen years, which has risen sharply in the years of implementation of the Memorandum policies, touching the 36% shameful one, which is one of the highest in Europe. We cannot hear every one of the media that a child fainted in the classroom. That is why we call on schools to contribute to recording and identifying all these cases. We call on teachers and parents to join in, to record all cases in the first place. Of course, we do not intend to waste a single euro on black holes. The most critical thing is to find the real beneficiaries of this aid quickly. It is a fact and we are well aware that the deeper poverty is and therefore the need for social protection, the more ineffective intervention has been to date. You can't find the real poor guy. We want to deal with this omnipotent deficiency. The Greek people must understand today, from this House, that poverty is not a shame, that the Greek is not guilty because he is unemployed! We ask him with dignity and pride to be involved in dealing with the humanitarian crisis. The second objective of our Ministry is to build a national system of social solidarity resulting from major institutional reforms for the reconstruction of social welfare and public policies to tackle poverty and social exclusion. In other words, a new Welfare Agency will be set up. That's what I just said. We want to move towards a global approach to the issues raised by the global crisis, social and political. We want the issues of the humanitarian crisis to be linked as soon as possible to the right of everyone to work and through it to return to human dignity and to participate in the radical reorganisation of Greek society and European societies, in every way available, making the most of the Public Expenditure Programme on Social Welfare, with a substantial revision of the NRP - PES codes. By mobilising everyone we will rebuild a new state of social welfare and solidarity. Our contribution in this direction is the launch of a major reform, reconstruction and strengthening of the social welfare sector and public policies to tackle poverty and social exclusion. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Just a minute, Madam President. We will pay particular attention to disabled people. It's 10% of the population in our country. The disability is a complex and complex situation. Reality is difficult, hard and often tragic. Their basic rights are being violated and challenged and we will proceed to the following immediate measures: First, the issue of an invalidity card in the form of an identity card, which will be used for the legal claim of each of the AIFs. Secondly, payment of the social benefits of the HEIs at a fixed, monthly, fixed date for all Greece. Thirdly, work security and stability for all workers in the prosperous structures and special education. We will take institutional action to pay the unpaid workers who have been unpaid for many months. Social welfare and structures are kept by the patriotism of workers, who are unpaid. We will establish the periodic evaluation and monitoring of structures and services aimed at all these vulnerable categories. We will move on to the establishment of professional workshops on the employment of small and medium-sized enterprises and the privileged absorption of their products. Finally, we are committed to exploiting public real estate through the NSRP in cooperation with the LAGs for shelters for disabled people. The construction of a single national system of social solidarity - what I have announced - is required to tackle, what situation, ladies and gentlemen? A dazzling, multi-standard and extremely dispersed and fragmented welfare system. Entities are fragmented in public and private legal persons, in NGOs, in some six hundred certified volunteers and other informal organisations. They have merged, shrinked, reduced the funds provided to them, and many times the workers in them remain unpaid, as I said before. We'll put an end to this. On the other hand, huge is the untapped assets of all these institutions that manage large donations. All this needs comprehensive regulation. At the same time, we will establish effective mechanisms for continuous recording of needs and for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of policies implemented. Our aim is to create institutions for the exercise of social control by society itself. That's what we want. In other words, we want to give every citizen the assurance that he will not be alone - not today, in the crisis or tomorrow - and that he will be able to contribute with dignity to the great task of productive reconstruction in the country, which we are starting now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. I thank all my fellow Members for the presence and the productive exchange of views. I propose that we interrupt the sitting for one hour, now it is 17.20', and come back at 18.20'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u99	Repeated adjournment. Before I give the floor to Mr Xanthos, who was kind enough to serve Parliament's work and to speak this afternoon instead of this morning, I would like in the name of transparency that has to govern Parliament's operation, to make a statement to both Members and to Parliament's workers. I found that documents, dated February 6 and 7, 2015, have been issued and circulated by several Heads of Administrations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u100	What kind of object did they have?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u101	Since these documents have not been issued on a President-in-Office's mandate, and since it has become quite clear to the relevant officials and the Secretary-General that all the consequences of issuing irresponsible documents must be removed, I must inform the House and, of course, I guarantee you that this Parliament will, from now on, operate in rules of transparency, with rules of legality to which all of us must comply, particularly those who have the responsibility of workers and those who are responsible for managing economic resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u102	With what object, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u103	I'll let you know, because I'm waiting to be briefed. Mr Andreas Xanthos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago the citizens voted for a very important step towards the democratic emancipation of Greek society. Political change in the country gave a vital breath of national dignity to the people of a country affected economically, socially and politically. These days, the government of Greece, with its weapon, unprecedented support for society inside, the vast front against austerity in Europe and the enormous international interest in developments in Greece, will give to the end the battle to defend the interests of Greece. Our negotiating power lies in the huge stock of political credibility that has a government without commitments and dependencies on diversity of interests and with a fresh popular mandate to cancel the Memorandum, change priorities, social relief and reconstruction of the state economy and institutions, but at the same time also to restore the sense of law and political ethos in the country. By exploiting this valuable political chapter of collective self-confidence and hope, which has been rekindled in society, with determination, seriousness, studied steps, with strategic intransigence and tactical flexibility, we are sure to achieve it. The Memorandum has already seriously and unequally harmed the health of the citizens. The drastic reduction in public spending has caused dissolutionary effects in the health system, making the daily lives of workers and patients grim. In the past few years, we have not only had a management of less resources due to budgetary narrowness, but a conscious choice of shrinking public care and extending the vital space for private business. So the ESS today presents a picture of a bombed landscape literally: clinical, sections and units with the daily stress of functional collapse, personnel exhausted working and economic, tragic shortages of material and resources, insecurity, despair and unconsciousness of patients. Today, easy access to the doctor, even the prescribing of drugs have become a daily problem for too many people in stubbornness or rather precisely because of the monumental changes. Health poverty, exclusion and inequality in care and social care have eroded fundamental human and social rights in our country. This is unacceptable for a country in Europe and is a strong moral and political argument in the debt negotiation. That is why there is no room for continuing the same recipe and, obviously, we are not bound by the Memorandum of Understanding nor by the policy of austerity in public health expenditure, which is already at 4.5% of GDP, far below the safety limits of any serious health system. We are fully aware of the difficulties but also of the responsibility to ensure with nails and teeth and always in cooperation with doctors and other workers the survival of the ESS and the dignity of the patients. Our primary concern is to relieve society, which has suffered an unbearable burden on health, to overthrow any institutional and operational exclusion from access to reliable health care and to implement a reconstruction plan for the ESS and eradicate its timeless pathogens and distortions. It is our top political commitment and priority that insurance for all uninsured people, without exceptions, in medical surveillance, examinations, medications and hospitalization that they need. This will be done through a radical revision of the institutional framework and of the joint ministerial decisions on the care of uninsured persons. It is very important, however, that there should also be a burden relief on the daily lives of insured patients, such as the immediate abolition of the EUR 5 ticket to hospitals and health centres, the rapid cancellation of the EUR 1 communiqué per prescription and the gradual reduction of the cost of purchasing medicines. At the same time, however, an emergency plan needs to be put in place to support and strengthen the public health system with human resources. We accelerate and complete the recruitment procedures of all categories that are pending at the moment and promote a gradual coverage plan with permanent jobs of all emergency needs in primary care, hospitals and the EAW, especially in the province and in the arid island areas. With respect to the time-consuming provision of doctors and staff, we will ensure in every way that there is no unpaid overtime in the health system and that there is no observance of the state's minimum obligations. We ensure, with the necessary recruitments of doctors and nurses, the operation of all ICUs and the development of new beds, in order to eliminate the waiting list for intensive hospitalization. We are speeding up the procedures for strengthening the old fleet of the ambulances in the EMCDDA and for resolving the crucial issue of the digital upgrading of their telecommunications system. In mental health we ensure the sustainability of all units and, at the same time, the renegotiation of the terms and schedules of the Andor-Lyquoque Pact for the completion of psychiatric reform, without jeopardising continuity in the care of patients with integrated services, primary care and social care structures and always with respect for the rights of mental patients. We maintain the existing facilities for prevention and treatment of dependency, with the first aim of gradually zeroing the list for inclusion in substitution programmes. Apart from the relief of patients and ensuring the survival of the ERC, what is needed is overall reconstruction and reform in the health sector, with interventions - areas in primary care, public health, medicine, system management, the treatment of waste and corruption and the exploitation of the disease. In primary care, which should be a key pillar of the ESS, we promote a new model based on family doctors, health teams, urban health centres and neighbourhood doctors, with a view to the patient's overall health care. With scientific work, consultation and consent, we will promote a change in the institutional framework, so that there can be a real shift in primary care, prevention and health care. In public health, which is an area of falsified health policy over time, it is characteristic that only 0.15% of GDP is available, 1/3 of the average of the OECD countries, because precisely the results of public health interventions do not offer immediate micro-groups and election performances. It's an investment in the holistic model for health. It goes beyond the hospitality logic of the system and the commercialisation of medicine. It shall strengthen the prevention and health protection of society and of the country. It has a clearly developmental character, for example by upgrading environmental hygiene and the protection of the food chain and it is perhaps the most democratic - in the sense of a level playing field - of its benefits - a health policy today. In the management of the health system, we also promote the change of model by removing the party-state, the "dometerocracy" and the peltian logic in hospitals, with greater dignity and democracy, with the participation of workers, the representatives of the sick and local communities, with public accountability and social control institutions, by strengthening the democratic planning of health services against factorism and localism. We remove the “ESAN S.A.” and the business mutation of the public hospital. We review the CENs and promote full integration into the electronic system of reliable diagnostic and therapeutic protocols. Especially to combat corruption, which has always been a structural problem of the system, we need organisational, operational and institutional measures - for example, transparent management of the OSH list, autonomous CSH, imprecise and transparent procurement system, etc., - it requires reforming and tightening up the disciplinary system, without the slightest political immunity and cover-up, but above all a wider social alliance against corruption is needed in the health system, in which workers in the system, trade unions, patients' bodies and hospital administrations must take the lead. It should be a priority to preserve human dignity, equality and efficiency in care. We emphasise the protection of patients' rights and upgrade the functioning of the Citizen's Service Office to the Ministry of Health and the respective offices in hospitals, so that these services - in close cooperation and with the Citizens' Counselor - solve problems of malfunctioning the daily service of citizens in order to control the maladministration of the units and develop into a real patient's counsel. Finally, we are planning an upgraded public pharmaceutical policy, with the strengthening and reorganisation of EOF and IFET, with support for the production of quality generics in our country, with a more rational and scientifically documented utilization of public resources, ensuring that all patients have access to the medicine and a reduction in their financial burden. In particular, we consider it necessary to review, always in cooperation with the representatives of pharmacists, the entire monumental institutional framework for their operation, in order to ensure the safe and adequate disposal of medicinal products throughout the country. SYRIZA's strategic goal is to build a public and free health system of equal access and universal coverage, with high quality service and controlled costs, and this is not because of ideological obsession, but because it has been demonstrated internationally that public health systems - when of course they operate on rules and control - outweigh the quality and final cost of services and the fight against inequality in access. The private health sector obviously continues to have a distinct and complementary role, covering real needs, which cannot offer in time and sufficient the ESS, but with strict terms and conditions of cooperation, with a review of all contracts and, of course, with the State's obligations being respected. For us, the state does not exist to guarantee the proper functioning of the health market, but to ensure institutional, financial and operational the equal provision of reliable medical care and health prevention to all, regardless of the working, insurance, financial situation of everyone or the legality of staying in the country. We are reconstructing public care in the direction of a new National Health System, without the known distortions and nuisances of yesterday, a health system which retains the right of the core - which has today been largely undone - which extends the public health space and restricts the market, which enables young doctors who today emigrate abroad to offer their knowledge, which redirects public funds from the state-owned business sector to public structures, and which supports primary health care, laboratories in primary care and hospitals, the areas of proven treatment, maternity, rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which are, today, mostly privatised. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In order to go ahead with such a transformation plan in health, it will be necessary, in addition to a fair taxation of real income and the necessary redistribution of wealth in the country, to actively contribute and support all honest and reliable forces of the ESS and the health world, as well as to establish another working and social ethos in the public health system. We know firsthand the difficult day-to-day life of hospitals and other health establishments. We've felt the agony of people who feed under adverse conditions for the best. We have experienced the joy of social solidarity in the field of health. We are not professional politicians or technocrats of health systems, nor are we seeking a career at the Ministry of Health. We're people of public care, we believe in her. For her dignity, her own officials and above all the patients we will strive and give all our forces consistently with words and works, with credibility, with justice, with dignity, with democracy and, of course, with the fight and support of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Blonde. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how it operates, thirty-five students and students and two teachers - attending them from the 7th High School and Lyceumnasium of Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, by attending all these fifteen days that passed through the elections on 25 January and by forming a co-operation government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks and also the Prime Minister's speech during the reading of the Programmatic Declarations of the Government, as well as the talks of the ministers of the Congress, he confirmed - because it is no longer a impression - that he is trying to balance himself by listening to and trying to satisfy - at least in the words, because the act will appear more clearly in the course - both the domestic groups and the European monopolies, which determine the fate of the European Union and the Eurozone, that is to say the so-called 'partners', the 'loaners' and go by saying, but also to salute the ears of our workers, our people, knowing very well that part of them voted for PASOK and New Democracy, and with some small hopes that he may do something better than the previous ones. But SYRIZA, having lifted up the tons of the election, is now difficult to land and land at the same time as several of his followers in the harsh reality that imposes on him a wolf alliance, which he declares a strong, loyal partner and even our common home, cultivating the illusion that he can already change it by negotiating, because he will now speak more proudly than the previous ones. Of course, we do not have any delusion, nor do we have false hopes and expectations. Most people in this Chamber, much more outside of it, the wide-ranging populaces, our people, recognize the Communist Party of Greece, even though politically, ideologically, do not agree with us, that the JRC is consistent with words and works and shows stability of principles and positions. This is a stability and consistency that is not based on dogmas and beliefs, but on scientifically documented analyses of reality with economic, political predictions confirmed, precisely because they are on the ground from the point of view of defending the interests of our people and their needs, from the point of view of fighting for a completely different development path that the people and the country need. That is why we know that proposals, positions and programmes that are trying to co-exist, to combine the incompatibles, tend to lead the people and their movement to continue to bleed for the same reasons as the previous ones. You cannot be with the working class, the people and the pluralism of the country and Europe. Either you fight for the interests of the few, the groups, the improvement of their competitiveness and profitability, by increasing the wages, the wages, the wages, the cuts, the break-up of rights, employment relations and social benefits, or you will really be, in practice, rather than in words on the part of the weak, the unemployed, the employees, the self-employed, the farmers, the young, the women and the people's families. This requires another development path, another way of evolution for the Greek society and economy, away from the densely populated capitalist development path that brought us here. This requires a conflict, a break in practice with the imperialist alliances of the European Union and NATO, the conditions of these alliances, from the Maastricht Treaty to the Euro Pact, the Stability Pact, the Europe 2020 strategy of the recent economic crisis. In all this - which is, of course, all that is primarily and primarily responsible for the fate of our people, our country - the Prime Minister gave the oath of faith yesterday. Now everyone can understand what is behind your barbaric slogans for the end of austerity, as the Minister of Finance said today. What you are already committing to signing is a new programme, an anti-grassroots convention. What you are clearly saying is that you will respect the balanced budgets, the rules of the Stability Pact. What do these two specific commitments mean to the people? They mean that the sacrifices of our people on the altar of competitiveness, the profits of the groups will continue. That's why you're talking about a simple life, with dignity. Why not even recover the huge losses that the people's family had during the crisis, and why the recovery of the Groups' profits now means that we have lost what we have lost in the crisis. So we shall be filled with feelings of dignity and with a few crumbs for extreme poverty, which the rest of the employees will pay again and the self-employed. For the people and their needs, if the new painful compromise is going on between the various urban classes of the Eurozone, the difference will only be in the wrapping. The Troika will change its name and there will be a new form of creditors supervision. Today's memorandum will be replaced by a new name. "Contract" said the Minister for Finance. Your proud negotiation, your different policy, which the people are asked to support, is about whether more state money will be released to give domestic monopolistic groups and not creditors. It is also about relaxing the conditions for high primary surpluses in the annual budgets, which are now needed to ensure the stability of the single currency, the euro. After all, in a similar direction the German Government and the governments of France, Italy, with the support of the United States of America, are pushing to improve the position of the people. That's why Olad, Renchy, and the American mission in Greece are supporting you to continue the unpopular restructuring. The pressure is that Germany should bear higher burdens on the management of the overdue states and on investments in the euro area. It serves the objectives of the United States of America to change the correlation against Germany, without, of course, breaking up the Eurozone. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately our people, under the responsibility of the very real authority and its various governments, have gained reduced demands to date. This is an issue, of course, which has to do with the retreat of the labour, the people's movement and the negative connections that exist internationally in Europe and in our country, of course, with the primary responsibility of the well-known parties that have ruled or ruled - liberal, socialist - and those in all previous years who have helped them by decommissioning the class movement as genuine reformists and oportunists at the time, who now replace the social democracy of PASOK with the social democracy of SYRIZA. "What did you have, Yannis, what I've always had," that is. So in view of both the low hopes and the reduced demands of a people who have suffered pandemics in this country, a government party, such as SYRIZA today, has to deal with and can handle two things alternately: both the trade in hope and the trade in fear. These can be deciphered both in the reading of the Programming Declarations yesterday by the Prime Minister and in the speeches by government, ministers and MPs that followed today. And in the trade of fear and in trade of hope, the precedents of bipartisanism had become "manuscripts" and then co-pilots. A worthy student has been evolving and SYRIZA has been developing over the years. Not only because of the well-known word that has now passed on to the international vocabulary, the well-known 'assumed' that we are hearing - which, of course, the JRC, if you remember well, used two years ago. By the way, I would say that when we said this then, we did not say it - of course - because we had some illusions about the slogans of SYRIZA and about the positions of SYRIZA, but because exactly as time went on, what they were trying to hide from the Greek people today. You have proved very adaptive and co-operating with the whole unprecedented gate of the financial oligarchy, the monopolies, of their representatives in the various governments around the world. Several good people - and politicians - are talking today about the need for national understanding, support for the work of the government, which is sounding positive and something good. I am not talking about factors or political parties which are probably or obviously - as you like, take it - do it for their own party propaganda political purposes, but I am referring to those who honestly believe it, whether from some ignorance or from delusion - if you like - or even a little hope of getting something out. What we have to tell them clearly once again - and if they want to take it into account before it is too late, of course, for our people and for our country - is this: in this country we have had a few times in the last 40 years, so that we do not go before. What we have to say, by using this experience, is that indignation, anger, discontent with the New Democracy and the PASOK for what the workers have suffered, the people in these years from those who have ruled are not only justified, but this condemnation must be completed - we say - in the next period, leaving the essence of their positions even more decisively. However, this should not, at the same time, lead to passive waiting for salvation from the new SYRIZA - Independent Greeks coexistence. Do not lead the people, their movement to become a applause of false expectations once again or to channel this issue into painless streams or even worse - into Nazi structures. Because if the complete condemnation of the New Democracy and PASOK is not combined with the political condemnation of the strategy and the anti-grassroots directions of this policy - which is both political and strategy of the European Union, the monopolies, their system, their state, which are defended with various versions, of course, and their various starting points, all the other parties - then it will be in the same and probably worse than we have already known to date. For example, the condemnation of the previous negotiation - from the point of view of the ways, methods, the proposals - made by the New Democracy and the PASOK with partners, but the full awareness that every negotiation - as hard as it may be - will be - in this context of the Euro-zone, the euro-zone - in which the current Prime Minister and his Government are constantly sworn and, indeed, within this vigilance of the great, intensified competitions - will be in the hands of the interests of our people. We are used to say that when the buffaloes fight in the lake of their competitive interests, they always pay for frogs, the smallest, the weakest, that is, the populace, our country. That is why we say: The working people's movement, our people not to be applauded, as they all want to do, and the current government partners and their allies and those who are behind them - a negotiation within the anti-popular walls that they will send us back to Tartara. Don't do it. And we say it clearly: The sooner today our people, the youth, the radical labour movement has drawn up its own line of struggle to recover the losses from the years of the crisis, the more it will be in its interest and will not count any more lost time. Recovery of the people's losses on the basis of modern folk needs, on another path of development for the people. That's what has to be done. The target to cross the wrestling line. Ladies and gentlemen, the Programmatic Declarations and the proposals we have heard from the ministers create reasonable and great concerns that cannot be enjoyed by the great words of dignity, national pride and other recitals of impartiality. Really, is the crumbs the dignity and hope that comes? The hope of the working class, of youth to have a stable work with rights and in 2015 to be able to live with dignity her children, with free health, education, care, is to have life with rights and not a life of life. Are the crumbs you promised - others for 2016, but with a four-year horizon - going to solve the problem of people's households? Will these families still not have the tragic dilemma 'to pay for oil or medicines, for a piece of meat or for my child's vaccine, to be unemployed or to work two, three days a month and say thank God?' Really, can there be life like this in 2015? And all is justified by the "we have received burnt land, burnt grains and shredded bridges". That's what Mr. Tsipras said yesterday. Those who use such arguments every time know that they want to justify their policy, seek the tolerance of the people by referring their expectations to the Monday Presence. This applies to the whole agenda. Of course, as far as possible, the Members of our party have set us up and will put in their speeches these two days the position of the JRC for all of these and other problems. For example, in foreign policy, SYRIZA has stated that it will meet Greece's commitments to NATO, the strategic alliance with the USA, at a time when NATO and the European Union are evolving further into factors of undermining the country's sovereign rights, which are exacerbating competition for markets and raw materials and concentrating the clouds of war in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, Ukraine with Greece's involvement. It is characteristic that the government's attitude to the issue of Ukraine, despite the first lionisms. Finally, the Greek Government was drafted with the European Union and voted for the same sanctions for Russia as those which were already in force and which had been passed by the former Government of New Democracy and PASOK, which it then conquered as opposition, with the possibility that there would be new sanctions soon. SYRIZA - Independent Greeks' coexistence to simply Greek and with no asterisks put its signature wide in a decision that is fully integrated into the aggressive plans of the European Union, the US and NATO in Ukraine, in the context of competition with Russia to control the region's energy resources with victims of the region's people, including the Greek people. Another example: Raise the flag of combating tax evasion, corruption, to move on to tax bleeding - the bleeding of self-employed people - to continue to lift the burdens of the majority of employees, the population. We heard the same from George Papandreou earlier. If you really wanted to pay the big capital, you could announce the abolition of the current-legal, otherwise provocative tax relief for shipowners, for monopolistic groups, you could commit to abolishing the PPP framework and concessions. But that's what you're not making a pussy for. Announcement of the IMO's audits for large tax fugitives, the different Lagard, Liechtenstein, etc. prepare for the climate of consensus, so that anti-population tax policing continues with new technical weapons, such as the enclosure. That is why you refuse to define what you consider to be a large real estate. That is why you do not commit any substantial relief to those who have incomes above the level of 12 000 euros, that is, extreme poverty. As for the statements on the elimination of customer relations and the corruption of civil servants and officials, they have little practical value, as long as the action of groups that have an interest in corrupting them, in order to ensure greater profits and market shares in each industry, in telecommunications, in construction, in energy, in health, as long as capital moves freely from country to country, in tax havens. That is why you are again a mere life for the Greek people. Profits for capital - just life for the people. That is why we say that the people need to establish their own line of struggle, to recover losses, to satisfy needs, on the road of their own power and economy. It is crucial in its struggle, in class struggle, not to be caught in the so-called - supposedly - national objective of shielding the competitiveness of capital, of organising its counter-reaction to the hopeful way out of the socialisation of monopolies, the release by the European Union and NATO, with the people at the wheel of power really, to open up the only timely and realistic path for the real human liberation, the building of a new society, namely socialist. The Communist Party of Greece will honour the expectations of the people's class, the working classes, the unemployed, the retired, the youth and the women of the people's families. It will be an important component of a dynamic populist opposition. Our criterion will be to unite all our workers, our people, in the fight for their right, regardless of the choice they made in the elections on 25 January. We'll be all over the place. We will call for the abolition of all anti-grass laws used in the arsenal of monopolies to kneel our people. In this context, the Communist Party of Greece will carefully look at every bill, on the basis of the people's labour interests, and, if they really alleviate the workers, we will support them, as we have always done. We will continue our interventions by putting forward concrete proposals for legislation on direct relief measures for the people's families, on the effective relief and protection of the unemployed, on the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages, on the compulsory application of collective agreements, on the abolition of anti-corruption measures that hit labour rights. On this basis, we will demand the actual reinstatement of the minimum wage of at least EUR 751 for all, without exceptions and asterisks, as a basis for wage increases. We will continue to reintroduce the third and fourteenth pensions and abolish the anti-grassroots measures that reduced pensions and increased the pension limits while demanding the repayment of the pension funds stolen from the reserves and the payment of the obligations of co-financing, pluralism and their state. We will continue the interventions for the discharge of the people's families from the raisins, by abolishing the ENPIA, the solidarity tax, the abolition of VAT on people's consumption, the taxation on heating oil, the tariffs for light, water, the increase in tax to EUR 40,000 for each family, while, of course, the tax on large capital is increased. We will continue the interventions with other proposals for a law. At the heart of our attention will be the current unacceptable health and welfare situation, especially in hospitals, with great shortages. Our focus will be on health, where there is virtually no access for the unemployed, the worker, the worker, the pensioner, the people's families and because of the enormous shortages in medical and nursing staff, in workshops, in infrastructures with commercialisation and privatization of services, in expensive medicine, inexpensive care and care for vulnerable groups and so many others that we are experiencing - and we have experienced - every day, those who have the misfortune of finding themselves in the need to care for their own relatives or loved ones. Also, in the educational situation of all levels, from preprimary education and the nursery to higher and postgraduate education, as well as vocational technical training with the huge financial burdens borne and paid daily by the working people. However, today, I would particularly like to point out the need for a rapid response to the chronic problems of the environment and the lack of anti-Semitism, anti-nuclear and anti-military protection that has once again emerged in the recent floods in Evros, Arta, Fthiotida, Evrytania and other prefectures and regions of the country, as well as in the neighbourhoods of large cities such as Athens, Attica, along with all the other problems experienced by every people's family. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons which have been mentioned as detailed as possible and which will also be mentioned by the JRC Members, we shall then vote against the government's programming statements. All Members of Parliament, like all members and members of the party, feel the burden of complying with the basic duty to strengthen a combatant, labour, popular opposition within and outside the House. We will make use of the particular power the people gave us in these elections to contribute to the reconstruction of the working people's movement, to the development of unity, coalition, social popular alliance. We will use this force to pressure, to claim, to extract whatever conquests are possible for our people today for immediate relief measures for people's solidarity. All of this, of course, is part of our constant and uninterrupted struggle for the other development path against monopolies and capitalism, for socialism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. I would like to say to you, Mr President, from the point of view of the House, that proposals for legislation, which you have announced will be tabled by your parliamentary group, are absolutely welcome. I hope that, within the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, we will also have a cooperation in order to ensure that the proposals for legislation which are now coming from both opposition and MEPs are discussed on an equal footing. With these remarks, I would like to inform you that the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Mr Venizelos, has asked for the floor. However, I was informed by the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group that you are consenting to two Members intervene, since we have not heard any Members of this House from the beginning of the sitting. Is that so, Mr President, or do you want to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u108	I would ask a Member to precede.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u109	Good. We'll hear a congressman. Mr. Michelovannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Madam President. A year and a half ago, I heard from Mrs Gennamata: 'The memorandum ended in December'. Watch out. Let's assume there's no elections. We had a budget that was voted on saying: increasing indirect and direct taxes of 1.5 billion, reducing the social budget of 1.6 billion. Indicatively, 340 million below. In public hospitals, 500 million. For example, uninsured from 340 million budgets went to 70 million. Also, in local government, they cut 60 million and 37 million in culture. All that is voted on, if we don't come, they said: "Come and evaluate us." And to come to you, you must withdraw the proposal of a 30% reduction in the exceptional solidarity levy, impose a luxury tax, increase VAT, freeze pensions, increase pension age, abolish CSR and supplementary pensions, work the OECD 1, 2, 3 toolbox. And from e-mail to do this, if we were to pass these tests, we would go to the enhancement credit line, which means - page 47 - a memorandum of understanding. That's all stopped January 25th. That was, Mrs Gennamas, the end, supposedly, of the memorial. The "slivers" said: "You will not do it smoothly". We're taking it smoothly. Heard we were going to Grexit. Read the international press. Sounded like bank run. Where's that? Sounded like deadline. Where's that? Kostas Chryssogenos said that four days before the elections the Prosecutor of the European Court of Justice said that the European Central Bank could not be also audited and controlled together. We started trying to make two conditions: a bridge which has one hand in the nominal economic development of bonds, in the exchange of manuscripts, and the second hand in the perpetual bonus, i.e. non-marketable bonds with no maturity date that constantly pay interest. In other words, they would replace what the European Central Bank holds. We have tabled a programme with small primary public surpluses, in real terms, plus a reform programme. And to those who say that we're doing shit, 67% isn't of the memorial, but they're of the reforms. On this bridge we asked for financial air to breathe. Is it wrong to address the humanitarian crisis that exists when one quarter of the national product has been lost? Is the Securities Committee bad for the market, the Competition Committee, the Economic Crime Corps, the Public Income Committees, the Customs Commission, when you have a list of Lijnestein, the Lagard List, you have offshore companies? You've checked from the two thousand sixty-two of the Lagard five list. You've checked five offshore from so many thousands. You haven't touched the intragroup transactions. You haven't touched the smuggling of fuel, oil, tobacco. Is it wrong to say no more than immunity in the HFSF, the HFSF and the bankers? Is it a hundred doses bad? Is the development bank and the intermediary bad? But I heard the JRC's companions two hours ago when I was respected for myself, Mr. Papapega, saying: 'Mr. Tsipras yesterday insulted Parliament when he said that with this programme that does stops dignity'. And he said by Step: “The poor also have destiny.” But for the sake of Panagia, JRC's companions, is that what Mr. Tsipras meant of dignity? When you have dismantled the European acquis, when you have dismantled the social state, when you have imposed English law, when you have been permanently supervised by the Troika, when you have a national account with priority interest payments, when you have resigned public immunity and the Bank of Greece, are you talking about the dignity of the poor by SYRIZA? Is that reasonable to get in from you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u111	Why, are you yelling? Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u112	No, I won't calm down at all. I'm not gonna calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u113	You're red, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u114	It's okay. If the pressure goes up, I'm a cardiologist, I'll throw it myself. So that's what we're talking about. We decency first of all mean national sovereignty, popular sovereignty, equality everywhere in negotiation, social justice, the end of the protectionist policy and the end of the 'goose walk'. Slavages are over. Hope has arrived, the present is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Michelonnakis. I call on the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Mr Evangelos Venizelos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, the Programmatic Declarations read yesterday by the Prime Minister have enthusiastically enthusiastised many, and I find it perfectly reasonable. We have a new government, with new people and we have heard an emotional reason for highlighting the conflict with the 'outside' and expressed in the name of national pride. Behind this, however, the conflict between the battle rhetoric and the fear of the negotiating deadlock appeared. That is why there have been so many silences and even more vagueness in the Programmatic Declarations. Yesterday's speech was a reason for internal consumption, but it is being collected and evaluated abroad on the basis of their own criteria. It is this great contradiction that concerns me in relation to the country's progress. I do not want the demagogy of the Prime Minister and his Government to become a trap for the country with asymmetric negative consequences. I hoped - frankly - that two weeks of government experience and international contacts would lead the government to a serious, honest and honest presentation of the data to the Greek people, not least because of the responsibility of the government in question. Unfortunately, I heard yesterday a self-sufficient election platform and not a responsible speech to the nation that presents problems, correlations, proposals, possibilities, alternatives. I also saw an arrogant look, unfortunately. Because it is arrogant to believe that democracy began operating in Greece with the victory of SYRIZA on January 25th and with the addition of the Independent Greeks, of course. It is arrogant to think that then national sovereignty, popular sovereignty and national dignity began. In this place, ladies and gentlemen, huge electoral and parliamentary majorities have been formed at times. Only during the postpopulation period we had Konstantinos Karamanlis with 54%, Andreas Papandreou with 48%. The previous government implemented a strategy adopted in June 2012 by 47% of the people at that time. You have won, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, taking the relevant majority and congratulating you, but you have 36.3%, with forty-nine bonus seats due to the election system and artificial polarization and forming a hefty provocative government outside the framework of European civilisation with the Independent Greeks. I am not only talking about issues such as citizenship or Macedonia's name, but about the overall conception of politics and culture, where your differences should normally be unwitting. It seems, however, that the power that has bridged the disputes is important. I understand and respect enthusiasm from the victory of the Left, as you define it. But everything also has a historical explanation here. Today there is a country and economy in operation, shrinking by 25%, but rescued by 75%, because some have lifted the burden and prevented incomplete bankruptcy, an absolute dissolution of institutional, economic and national. You say - and unfortunately you say it after all - that we have chosen austerity. Are you willing? I find it amazingly comfortable. We have chosen rapid and painful financial adjustment, and have we been able to choose long-term and mild adjustment without sacrifice? Could we, and didn't we? Mercy! Who'd fund it? How much loan? Who would've given it? We needed a EUR 250 billion loan for an adjustment in four years. We could've done it in 15 years. Who would give us EUR 750 billion of a loan? Mr Tsipras himself said - and rightly yesterday, with the emphasis that 'primarily balanced budgets are a precondition for national sovereignty'. That's the truth. So tell the people the truth: Sacrifices were not imposed and not made because of debt, as you say, but because of a huge primary deficit that in 2009 was 12.5% of GDP, 25 billion euros. The strange thing is that what Mr Tsipras said yesterday was said after the contacts he and Mr Varoufakis had and just before the Eurogroup and the European Council. Of course, while the Prime Minister said this, some of his government saw the damn troika in secret here in Athens. My assessment, therefore, is - and I would ask you to stress this - that the line of government is backwards with the cry of 'attack'. If we have not retreated by the cry of 'attack', then the government, enclaved in its choice of sacrificing the essence of the conflict, will do damage. I prefer retreat from the national damage. Watch the curve of contradictions within just two weeks. You won the elections by talking about unilateral debt write-offs, abolishing memoranda and enforcement laws, for statizing banks, for an ambitious Thessaloniki program with "Sleep" with private debt write-offs. You have been telling people for years that another policy was possible, without sacrifices and difficult measures, that there was no negotiation that had to be done, not now that the country was in an incomparably better situation than 2009, but five years before, in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. Think of the difficulties at the time, seeing the difficulties now. You said easy, heavy, unfair, conspiracy. You blamed us for baiting. You have not recognized any attempts, no achievements, nor even any difficulty. You have won the elections, you have started contacts and discussions without a planned plan, without pursuing a wider consensus, without setting up a national negotiating team. You understood the so-called "hard negotiation" as a communication internal consumption game, a game of style and personal charm of the Prime Minister and now especially the Finance Minister who has internationally overshadowed the Prime Minister, the Vice President and all the Ministers. A game of regional contacts and fleeing supposedly positive impressions. But all this is overthrown in a few days, as soon as contact with the really responsible ones begins, with the core of the institutional partners and creditors. We didn't want that to happen. We're not rejoicing. We want the government to achieve more than what we had ensured, but that is not the case. We have seen the real attitude of the United States, they have never been particularly helpful in the International Monetary Fund, France and Italy. Mr. Tsipras visited Vienna today my friend, Mr. Fiman, leader of the Social Democratic Party. He's a five-year Chancellor. For five years Austria's conservative Minister of Finance has been the hardest against Greece in the Eurogroup. The first three years were the famous Mrs. Fetter and of course her successor. The big issue with Austria is that it is the first country in Europe with bank opacity. The greatest banking paradise in Europe is Austria, not Switzerland, and Luxembourg. That's what Mr. Tsipras had to say today to Mr. Werner Feyman. This is not the case with the instant television impressions. And finally we see what the European Central Bank says, what the President of the Eurogroup says and what countries like Portugal and Ireland say. I'm not talking about Germany. Mr Varoufakis went to London, at the heart of the question of the euro area, but not in Lisbon, not in Dublin, in the countries that experienced the adaptation programme. You speak with a number of people, but there is no official contact with the International Monetary Fund. Yesterday the Prime Minister spoke for a hundred minutes. He did not mention the title 'International Monetary Fund'. What about the current programme, the Memorandum of the International Monetary Fund? You didn't want the troika, but you made a secret meeting with Mr. Thompsen, the emblematic nature of the troika. Mr. Vizer and Mr. Costello were in Athens secretly yesterday, while Mr. Tsipras spoke to the House and also made no reference to the Troika. The word 'troika' and the word 'IMF' were not heard in the extensive reading of the programme statements. You don't see the troika, but one of its members and then they agree and set their single line. Grexit has again become a first theme. A Greece outside the euro means a Greece with a euro debt but not a euro. It means a Greece outside markets and an international banking system for decades. Mr Cameron - apparently informed by Mr Osborne - held a meeting in London today on the implications of a possible Grexit. "We retreated in the handkerchiefs" as a country. All this is done without respect for the sacrifices and the financial and structural achievements of the people. So let us see what happened in practice on the fifteen days behind the communist curtain. Funny internal licking in the new power from business circles with money out in euros and damages inside. The big levedic words! So what emerged is: Decision of the European Central Bank concerning the non-selecting of Greek State bonds from 11 February to provide liquidity to Greek banks refusal to increase the threshold for issuing interest rates and refusal to change the rules for the use of funds drawn from the emergency liquidity mechanism, the ELA; and the increase in revenues from the public and insurance funds. He called on Mr. Tsipras to pay the 2014 doses. Why would someone pay them when they've been promised to dismantle by unidentified replacement? The rating houses again degraded the country after so many years of sacrifice and so many accomplishments. The Europeans have clearly said that a request for an extension of the programme is needed after 28 February, which means evaluation and agreement, so that, as we planned to get out of the memorandum and go to the preventive credit line. The Memorandum expired on 31 December 2012. There's no other loan. The extension was given to facilitate the transition to the new phase. We didn't speed anything up. If we hadn't received the extension, it would have just ended the memorandum and we would have been without chests. Last week, the government, in the statement by Mr Tsipras at BLOOMBERG, made a radical turn in relation to the debt. The Prime Minister was clear: no unilateral actions on the debt. Regular service, particularly with regard to the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Once again, the 'LAZARD' - our main advisor to the PSI - as a debt advisor and all the ideas of the financial staff for parametric changes, transfer of payments, reduction of interest rates, conversion of interest rates, are changes that we have so far said are a haircut, in terms of net present value, and you found us. Now Mr. Chakalotos said so. Yesterday, unfortunately, vague and contradictory messages were sent again. Mr. Tsipras said: "the normal debt service depends on a previous deal for reduction", while you know that this is an inconsistent Eurogroup commitment since February 2012, but once the programme has been formally completed and the debate on the exit and transition to the preventive credit line begins. Here we are, here we have to stay. The Eurogroup has committed itself to further debt reduction since 2012, due to the destructive PSI that cut the debt by 180 billion, 80% of GDP and radically restructured it by making it the best-structured debt. We pay an annual service of 60% less than we paid in 2009. Did you imagine a bankrupt state and the funds are being rescued? If the state had not been rescued, would there have been funds? The entire impact on the funds is half an annual grant from the Greek State. The IKA administration, which heard the government's advice, bought new bonds with the money received from the PSI and restored its portfolio by 130%. Those who did not do so have a huge responsibility towards the insured and need to be investigated because some administrations, trade unions and parties, did not do what IKA did. You are not balanced because you continue to speak a double language, which I fear you need for internal reasons. Many of you are still talking about the old idea of unilateral deletion, 'negated debt', the debt that, as I said, has been spectacularly bored and restructured in 2012. The Government builds up all its arguments in accepting primaryly balanced budgets, in the ‘not impossible high primary surplus, to the detriment of growth and social policy’. I couldn't agree more. That has always been our position and our effort. That is what I have said in a number of interviews, statements, and in a series of tough contacts and negotiations with partners for years. The concept of 'financial space', 'fiscal space', is my favorite concept in these negotiations, years whole. Mr. Tsipras told her yesterday. But, you know that in order to achieve this thing, which is a legitimate strategic objective, we need to have the debt debate. We need to have a new debt sustainability study. My tongue's hairy to say it. Moreover, while Mr Tsipras spoke a few days ago about a reform programme entitled 'tax evasion - transparency - a client state', there are now many 'customers'. Yesterday he said all this very vaguely, relaxedly, without connecting it to the negotiation. He also did not speak expressly and clearly about the need for political negotiation. However, this was always the method for the big steps: Summits, on the subject of Greece. That's how all the big decisions were made on haircut, on the big favorable loan, on everything. How did you think it was going on? The troika's on duty. But it has been working as a government representative for the last four years and is making the technical report. Whether you see it together or two - one - one - one - one - you need a technical report of employees. The political negotiation is a political negotiation, but we also need numbers. It's not on television. It's done on the table, with paper and pencil. With numbers. The Prime Minister made a key point not to submit a request for an extension, not to say that the anti-immemorial government is requesting an extension of the memorandum. It's all right, accept the consequences of government responsibility. The amazing thing is that while it says 'no extension request', it denounces us why we have received an extension of two and not six months! So he'd like to have found the extension, i.e. the stay in the memorandum, ready, so he won't get his hands dirty. And he's denounced, because we didn't make it easier for him to stay in the Memorandum without a loan, only on the burdensome terms. Isn't that impressive? For the IMF talks, because the program, i.e. the IMF memorandum, applies until 2016, and we have said to turn it into a preventive one, when we enter the preventive credit line, to get either from there or from the market, depending on the best interest rate. The emblem of the government is a concept: 'Programme - bridge'. Ladies and gentlemen, a bridge programme from where to? Bridge program to go where from the memorial to the memorial? From the Memorandum to the Preventive Credit Line, like outside the Memorandum? Should we go to the so-called clean exit, for which you accused us of having raped and wrongly asked for an exit? Watch out. The bridge programme is a huge mistake at the expense of the national economy, not because our partners may not give it to us, but because we are badly asking for it. What does a bridge program mean? It means that we are actually staying in the Memorandum without a loan, with no instalments, no favourable interest, no market outlets, no preventive credit line. With the IMF, of course, the Memorandum applies, the programme. All this is against growth, investment, employment, businesses and the unemployed. What does a bridge program mean? In fact, a bridge which is financed under the worst possible conditions, not by the loan at cheap rates, but by the banks. In other words, there is again an incestuous relationship between public and banks, and banks are becoming the vehicle of this dramatic erosion. Because they have in their portfolio the bad housing bills, which, you all understand, are virtual with virtual guarantees. Why do you say that? Why are you doing this? Why do you want to create a bomb that is financial and developmental at the expense of the country? In fact, it depends entirely not on the Eurogroup and the governments and parliaments, but on the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. Which one beautiful Thursday took out the socket of Cypriot banks and led them to the most famous bail in. He cut the testimonies. Is that what you want? Should we depend on Mr. Draghi and his board of directors to pull out the plug and lead us to a deposit haircut? Can we live the experience of Cyprus? Of course, silence around the IMF. Are we gonna make this superstitious? Do you accept our strategy? Now, will I ask you the question of the agony of the world, of the House and yours, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA: Arrest or compromise? Where are we going? I say to the enthusiastic applauders that the line is retreat, shouting 'attack'! Otherwise, we will have had an impact on the wall of a nationalist outrage, which is not suited to the Left, to reasoning, to fundamental national responsibility. Please let us not live as a country. Nationalist self-enthusiasm has nothing to do with patriotism. Patriotism means knowledge of correlations. "Nation is true," he allegedly said Dionysius Solomon. Our attitude as PASOK: we are fully supporting the government in international contacts. These must be serious, organised, targeted, responsible, transparent. Although you have refused a consensus, we as a opposition, from our position in the House, are ready to contribute to the promotion of the national strategy, but this must be understood, accepted, clear and passed through a national negotiating team. We are not looking forward to deadlock and national defeat, but rather to the country's progress and politically, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. We see, as I have already said, the arrogance and the drunkenness of victory. Let's take it for a few days. But there is no time to lose. Can you hear us? Where you are and where I am, you're coming! In 2009, at the beginning of the crisis, SYRIZA had 4.7% and thirteen MPs, like PASOK today. In all of this, then, we say our opinion and we hear the answer: 'This issue has been judged in the elections democratically'. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections are periodicals and people change and often change radically and quickly, because above democracy there is history after all. So the difficult dilemma begins now: 'party costs or national costs'. There are also transnational relations. Everyone has national sovereignty, everyone has popular sovereignty, everyone has national interests. Substance: Extension is necessary for a rapid and safe exit from the memorandum. Next step is the prudential credit line. There's no other way. The preventive credit line is also the official end of the troika. Taking the outstanding instalments of 2014 is also necessary and favourable, because we have the best interest rates, even for the rest of the IMF loan. As far as the IMF is concerned, we must continue the programme, and when we enter the preventive credit line in Europe, we must also ask for it to be converted into preventive, so that we can choose from the market. The evaluation is inevitable, but keep our own red lines. To bring more and not more to these issues, given the objective of reducing the intended primary surplus. Of course, however, as you can see, these are in practice judged, not in words. And with regard to the debt I wish the debate would be promoted, but it can't be done. I've always asked, but we haven't been able to achieve it. This is the big difference of the first from the second programme. The second programme put forward the issue of debt, haircut, restructuring, but it also includes the promise of further intervention and haircuts. We have to do that now, not discover the powder. The debt issue must therefore be dealt with at the same time as negotiating to complete the programme and moving to a preventive credit line. Attention, accept and respect what was done in 2012 in relation to the debt so that you can do something. Bring a haircut for a euro. When you bring a euro haircut, I'll be pleased. We brought the haircut I told you, EUR 180 billion in net present value. Yesterday, however, we also heard the transition from Thessaloniki to analogy, genealogies and silences. I wish the programme would be implemented, but if it could be implemented, we would have said so. You voted against us and you condemn us, but we are not fools. We didn't say that because we don't lie anymore. We'd said before, and we paid it as a party. [[Noise in the Chamber]] But you are now saying, after the experience of the crisis, and that is a shocking difference. Because by 2009 everyone could say "I didn't know, they didn't tell me, I was wrong". Now, however, there is no presumption of innocence, there is a presumption of guilt and responsibility. All major mistakes in post-population were voted by democratic majorities and enthusiasm. But they're mistakes. And you repeat them. You express the passionateness of Postmultition, not the future. So, then, the turn was right, but what turn? Respect for the institutions? What institutions? Your government has thirty - four ministers, and the previous one had twenty - three. These are the members of the Ministerial Council. I have heard Mr Tsipras say that "the Constitution is our blood". What Constitution? The 2001 Constitution, what we voted on. There is a Minister who said "to go to a new constitution without the limitations of the review, the increased majorities, Immediately-democratic". This Constitution? What Constitution was moved for yesterday? I've heard well the extreme cheap populism about cars, guards, government aircraft, which the government uses in great comfort. Strange silences. Troika, word for IMF, word for these specific privatizations. Mr. Lafazanis says it, but not Mr. Tsipras. A word on Turkey in foreign policy. There was not, for the first time, a reference to Turkey, to the Cyprus issue and to Turkey's responsibility in the Cyprus issue, nor to the Greek-Turkish, Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean. Word about maritime zones, AOZ and the continental shelf. Word about guaranteed income. Word about the primary sector. Agricultural policy was not a paragraph of the Prime Minister's statements. We have heard very few commitments that have been measured, few, some seemingly specific, but in specialisation they will appear to be vague. And of course what is the big issue, the labour and the minimum wage. I must tell you that we have given enormous struggles to preserve the achievements of the European social state in Greece. Now, however, we have started discussions between the social partners in the international labour organisation in Geneva with concrete results. I hope that this will at least be maintained. Of course, not breaking open doors. The first home auctions have been secured for years. The Solidarity Fund has been in existence for years. The big issue of transparency is the lifting of banking confidentiality. This is the only mechanism that exists and that was done in 2011. He didn't mention it. For the tax system, I have heard a threat to the middle-class, to the middle-class. All right, we'll get rid of the HICPIA. We'll have a big real estate tax. How much money? For the same total amount? And who's gonna pay for it? Of course, strange bank references. Because the Red Loan Intermediator wants funds. Who's gonna give the funds? This is a major facility for the shareholders and administrations of the banks. It's the bad bank, it's the bad bank that lightens the banks. And when we say 'public rights', what do we mean? Common shares with vote? When we say rights to individuals, what do we mean? Will options be exercised? Will Warrants have the right to appoint an administration? I see panic and anguish here because you think that without banks there is no ELA, there are no insects, no bridge program. But that already means a tragic compromise over who's in charge. Of course, hollow threats. Examination of the Memorandum? Sure. But lasting. For Memorandum I, Memorandum II and Memorandum III, now. For the PSI? Sure. Because there are responsibilities of the trade union administrations for the insurance funds. You're going to check on the media? Sure. You'll find your supporters, the new ones. You're going to check the exterior transfer? I sent them to Parliament in 2011. You will find many of your friends who are now writing for you and making statements on behalf of the business world. Ladies and gentlemen, I address the Congress, enjoy the experience of victory and power, but do something really good for the country. By bringing more than that, without endangering sacrifices, conquests, prospects. Please put the real patriotism in the position of nationalist expansion that requires partisan costs, please. Put it in the place of simplicity, which has always led the Left to the margin, the organized plan, the integrated national strategy. Put the task of truth into place of illusions and election demagogy. Put into place the simple call of democracy the full sense of the history and fate of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u117	Thank you to the President of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u118	My almighty, I want you in the OSCE toolbox. I expect you to implement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u119	Mr Georgiadis, you may not have found that all these hours there is a procedure that does not contain shouting and coming. If you want the floor, you can ask for it. Thank you to the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a clarification for this House. The Greek Constitution was passed on 7 June 1975 and was revised on 6 March 1986, 6 April 2001 and 27 May 2008. Also, by interpreting the feelings of this House, as I believe, I would like to make the point that in relation to transparency, which has been a lot of talk about, I think it is a common requirement for everyone to be shed light on black money trafficking. I think we all expect developments after the shocking revelations about the Faltsiani list and the Lagard list that they have today understood a very important part of publicity. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and the Minister of National Defence Mr Kammenos in the capacity of Minister have requested the floor. I will give Mr Kammenos the floor, because it has been preceded and then to Mr Philadelphia. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we heard yesterday a moment ago. We have heard the threats, the terrorisation of the Greek people, things the Greek people rejected in the last elections. We have also seen the amazing phenomenon - which I do not know if the citizens have been watching it on their televisions - that the co-pilots until yesterday have been interoperable. That's the truth. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] So they continue to coexist with those who led to the poverty of two thirds of the Greek people. But I think this is about the past. From now on, we need to talk about the future, about hope, about the unity of the Greeks. This government is the first government to have succeeded in giving its mark here in the House in reading the Programming Declarations of the Prime Minister and Members of the Co-Population, but also in the acts which have shown that this government is a strong government, a government of national sovereignty. It's a government of all Greeks. It is a government that has managed within a few days to make the unprecedented, that is to say, that the citizens should come down to the Constitution in order to show their support. They were people coming from both the left and the centre, even from the centre right. Citizens who did not vote for the parties that constituted this government came to the nearest, seeing a Greece able to resist, a Greece that does not receive orders via e-mail to govern, a government that goes to Europe and speaks as an equal government in the European Union. This is a government that respects democracy, which restores the Constitution, which unites the Greek people. We want the Greek people together and strong in order to be able to negotiate. We do not want him to negotiate as part of the Greek people, but as a nation. Home must be united. When you negotiate as a nation, you negotiate very differently than if you are negotiating as part of some other partners in the European Parliament. In the field of National Defence, it is known that national strength, volume and imprint of the international situation and the actions of the country are the result of many aspects, such as military power, social cohesion, economic power, fiscal stability, the exercise of integrated, active and credible defence diplomacy. The security of the country is a matter of national, more than party pursuits, and in which national understanding is possible, but also necessary. From the outset, we have made it clear what the first issue is. The first issue is national security, the situation in Thrace, the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. We insist on the Eastern Mediterranean, because that is where we have our energy interests, there we have the priority of demarcation of EEZ, but from there too we can guarantee the security of Cyprus and have the full view of the Cyprus problem. I would remind you that in this Chamber many years ago the famous "national arch" was heard, the arc of Thrace - Aegean - Cyprus that Michael Charalabides rightly described. The aggression and instability that prevails require that we have our attention tense, our readiness to the fullest extent, and clearly to be cautious. With Deputy Minister Kostas Isihos, Deputy Minister Nikos Toskas, we have an absolute sense of responsibility. At a really difficult time for our country we are here to cooperate at political level, respecting the regulations, national defence plans and the independence of the Armed Forces. From the outset we have known that we will respect the basic elements of the progress and effectiveness of the Armed Forces, namely the institutions, traditions, morality, the laws governing their operation and the chain of administration, which must be maintained unaffected, regardless of the persons who practice it. We will proceed with careful steps, but also with specific positions in actions, the general principles of which we are making known today, and we believe that they will serve the national interests, the interests of the country's defence and security, international peace and stability, and transparency and legitimacy. At this point I would like to inform all my fellow Members that we are counting on the close cooperation of the Ministry of National Defence with Parliament, on close cooperation with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and on close cooperation with the Subcommittee on Arms. The House will know all defence issues. At regular intervals, the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy will be informed, even on confidential issues. The Department of National Defense will answer questions. We will be present in parliamentary control. At the same time, there will be full transparency in arms issues, not only for the Subcommittee on Equipment, but also for Parliament's plenary, with the protection, of course, of confidentiality. We will do everything in order to facilitate the work of the military hierarchy and all the officials to safeguard our national sovereignty and territorial integrity, security and deterrent capacity. We will do everything in order to maintain the integrity of the Armed Forces, of course, with what the state can provide from the stallion of the Greek citizen. Our programme for the Armed Forces aims to implement the National Defence Policy, as decided by the Governing Council for Foreign and Defence. The aim of the project is the multi-faceted and necessary organization of the army, through adequacy and legal procedures aimed at maximising the bourgeoisie, always focusing on human resources. I am starting with the staff - as I started my speech on the delivery and receipt of the Ministry - which was my first mandate to the Ministry. I am referring to the personnel and officials of the Armed Forces and not the 'institutions', as they used to be in the whole climate of depreciation, the whole climate of label performance, the whole climate of horizontal economic bleeding to characterise those who guard Thermopylae and take care of our national sovereignty and national dignity in Evros, the islands, all over Greece, those who stand behind our locusts in the emergencies and natural disasters. And I will say this directly, it was not important to grant the days planned without the seat of the Prefecture of Evros and the islands of the Aegean, pursuant to the a.d. 200/93, which we decided from the first day we took over the Ministry's leadership, but it is a recognition of the officials of the Armed Forces. It is the first concern of our programme that all injustices should be restored and that is why our next action - mandates have already been given - is the start of the process of wage rehabilitation of officials who have been subjected to a lively wage attack in recent years - with more than 50% being understood - and the restoration of the retired injustices. We will implement the decision of the Council of State. Justice is an institution and a pillar of democracy and no government can deny the application of the decisions of Greek justice. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] The most important is the mind and soul of the staff of our Armed Forces. I assure you that the strength of the Armed Forces is guaranteed by the quality superiority of his staff. That is why the human factor will be for the Prime Minister and the Government, for the Ministry of National Defence first priority. After all, there was our primary energy to create channels of communication and sincere cooperation with both the returnee associations and those of the active officials. In this context, we have already launched the establishment of an office of the coordinating board of three returnee associations within the Ministry of National Defence and we are discussing a package of measures to make use of the experience of retired personnel. We are aiming at a pragmatic, transparent and imprecise framework for the promotion, transfer and placement of the personnel of the Armed Forces in positions of responsibility. We want the transfer of executives to take place with an anthropocentric approach and in response to the equality, integrity, equal treatment and insight of law, thereby ensuring that the country's Armed Forces maintain their high degree of operational readiness. And we are not just confined to permanent staff. We will meet next to the contributor, the child of the Greek family affected by the economic crisis, introducing beneficial measures for those who belong to family members near and below the poverty line. We will make the term a productive period of the new and not a waste of time and an economic haemorrhage for the parents. We are establishing the priority card for the victims of the crisis. And that's about the soldiers. They'll be given priority in transferring, positioning, the Armed Forces. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] And at this point, I say that these will be the only ruffles. It'll be social ruffles with pure social criteria. We will only have social interventions and the children of the unemployed and the victims of the crisis will be helped. I have already commanded the relocations of probies to be prioritised by Evros and the islands. The units there will be complete that will reach 90%. It cannot continue to be the case that Kalamata units or other areas which are not a national priority should be filled with 400% of manning rates at the border. Some cannot do four - hour and eight - hour goals and others can live within nine months of their term of office in the security of their political friend. That's where the country needs us. That's where locusts need us. If this is not the case, as much reorganisations as we do, as many reorganisations as we do, we will not achieve the operational result that we want. Sometimes things are simple and they don't cost. We have learned to overlook this for many and various reasons, which we have paid as a country and are in the position that we are in today. And I come to the basic principles of our defence policy, ladies and gentlemen. Our programme will take the flesh and bones through a grid of administrative measures, as well as legislative interventions, which achieve the objective objectives of the national defence policy in the context of the country's capabilities and needs, the characteristic of the geopolitical and geostrategic environment, the main threat and the modern threats, the requirements for the organisational and operational structure of a flexible, efficient and rapid reaction of a modern army, as well as the ability to handle crises, transparency and legitimacy. In particular, the emphasis we must attach to energy security, particularly following recent developments in the Eastern Mediterranean, which requires preparation to ensure mining activities, smooth supply, communication routes and transport of energy resources. The organisation and development of the Armed Forces as a fundamental factor of national power and an effective deterrent force is a key objective of our programme. For example, the measures and interventions of our programme cover the following areas. We will implement and make maximum use of the newly applied force structure. Aimed and substantial interventions may exist, but without overthrowing the broader planning, without dragging us into a sizable logic of endless reorganizations that the Armed Forces have experienced so many times. The aim is to make full use of the weapon systems and instruments available and to fill gaps in areas that are judged critical. I am not referring solely to gaps and possibilities of a purely military nature, but also to areas which relate to all the components of national power. The Armed Forces will contribute and contribute to addressing threats to our national security. The aim is to strengthen cooperation with all state actors involved in the prevention and management of all kinds of crises. The cybercrime, modern forms of piracy, international terrorism are areas that require coexistence and co-responsibility from all to deal with. It is clear that these security challenges cannot be made without the cooperation of the Armed Forces. We live in societies which are very much based on the smooth functioning of a large number of strategic systems and infrastructures. The weakening of one or more components as a result of a large-scale disaster may lead to a short or longer collapse of the state mechanism, with unforeseen consequences. I bring you as an example the floods of Evros we are now living in. The regions there have been facing unprecedented disasters that we have seen since 1963. There has been a huge catastrophe both in houses and in crops. If the army weren't there day and night, disasters would be multiple. They've given and given huge battle to officers, officers, but also soldiers. Evros and our locusts, our outermost regions and the islands are our absolute priority. A key aspect of our policy is the widespread involvement of the Armed Forces in actions in favour of society as a whole. This is part of our business plan with an upgrade of civil-military co-operation, which we will pursue. In this context, we are immediately examining the re-recommendation of the old MOMs,... [[Applause from the ANE wing]] ...Mixed Reconstruction Machine Groups, as the citizens know, as a new service, the inter-State Armed Forces Projects Agency, of course, within the framework of Community directives. Furthermore, we are moving towards the creation of a public utility management, which will be subject to all the means of fire-fighting, aerospace and rescue search, with a view to autonomy, flexibility and funding, irrespective of the defensive design and enhanced use of Community resources available for these purposes to civilian bodies. Of course, it is a duty that there should be no diversion from the primary mission, which is not other than the safeguarding of territorial integrity and national independence, but we do not forget that the high level of social provision of the Armed Forces in cases of disasters, fires, rescue, aerospace search, strengthens the ties between the Armed Forces and society, increases the sense of security and forges social cohesion. Strengthening the Armed Forces will be done in a targeted, transparent, flexible and essential way. We are determined to use the property of the Ministry of National Defence both for the benefit of the Armed Forces themselves and the entire society. After all, we must not forget that for this purpose a law had been passed in 2014, which has never been implemented. The immediate priority is to amend the provisions of the Procurement Act - other than those relating to the Community directive - which have led to inexorable delays and obstacles to the supplies of the Armed Forces, by blocking the maintenance of their combat capacity. It is not possible to obtain modern helicopters - I am referring to the great MH -90, which we should have received twenty in the number since 2003, and we have received eleven - from the new eleven to fly only two, and even one to be left in Crete a few days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that only in this case have I been brought to sign a maintenance contract of EUR 71 million and a payment contract as well as a payment contract for the helicopters we received - the new ones and they are not flying - EUR 110 million. No contract will be signed unless the materials that we receive from the outset are activated. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The control won't stop here. We will be responsible and fined for all violations of arms contracts wherever they come from. No more party, no more immunity, no matter where they are! As high as they are, they will pay those who used the money of the Greek people. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Already with colleagues, Deputy Minister and State Secretary, we went ahead and started setting up an Internal Affairs Service that the House has voted on, but remained in the Ministry's drawers, an Internal Affairs Service that will have full control over each unit and in any case. I ordered them to check my desk first, and they have an order to open the ministers' drawers to look for everything. As of tomorrow, they will be in the General Secretariat for Equipment. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] I would like to say to you that there is already a document, which we did not know, by the prosecutor of Military Justice sent to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, which refers to more than twenty cases of illegality in armaments and nothing has been done at all! I will shortly ask Parliament to upgrade military justice so that it can look into cases of more than EUR 150,000. We are moving on to the reconstruction of the defence industry. The Greek Defence Systems, ELVO, state factories will not only enter but sign all cooperation contracts with all the countries of the world. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would like here to mention to you, ladies and gentlemen, that they have found in the drawers huge offers of cooperation for the Greek Air Industry, for the Hellenic Defence Systems from NATO, the European Union and outside NATO and no one has been interested in getting the defence industry ahead. The defence industry will therefore function and not just meet the needs of the Armed Forces, but will also be an export force, power for the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I ask you to cooperate in defence diplomacy. Greece is an ally in NATO, a member of the European Union and of course our coalition obligations will serve them with the above, but we will not stop working together and having relations with countries outside the alliance. They cannot cut off Greece and its ties with countries that are friendly, such as Russia or other countries. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] There will be contracts that will be signed. I am already telling you that within the next journeys organized by the political leadership it will be India, which has asked the Greek Defence Systems to sign a huge contract for the creation of a new anti-aircraft system. In this effort we will continue to have the Republic of Cyprus and the Cyprus Hellenism, in which we are irreversibly committed. Together we will develop political cooperation with the states in the region with a view to creating an environment of security, economic opportunities and cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean, against the adversities of the region. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very respectful of the history of the Armed Forces and their glorious offer at home. I honor them as they are honoured and trusted by all Greek citizens. I recognise that the project is particularly difficult. I know there is no room for failure. I am optimistic because there are steady steps and at the same time there is vision and appetite for hard work. I am optimistic about the future of our Armed Forces by trusting the integrity of leadership, the professionalism and abilities of executives, soldiers and civilian personnel. We will consistently and continuously do our best for our country and for our defence. I would once again like to invite you to the basis of our common purpose, which is to serve the public and social interests, the interests of the defence and security of the Greeks and to be all together. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all to a joint effort in order to relive national self-confidence and hope and with the help of God to put the country on orbit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Minister of National Defence, Mr. Pano Kammenos. For my part, as President of the House, I would like to thank you for your commitments that you will have cooperation with Parliament's relevant committees and with the level of foreign and defence policy and with the level of armaments and transparency in relation to armaments contracts. It is valuable to have the government made available for transparency before Parliament and all the wings in these matters. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and three teachers - attending them from the 1st High Serres. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr. Nikos Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a small trak because I am speaking for the first time - I feel the responsibility I am in this House as a member of the SYRIZA Parliament, that is to say, a representative of a historic party called today by the people in the difficult - as has always been called on by the Left - to restore hope, open a path of democratic regeneration and economic recovery in the country. I feel honored and responsible, because the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the SYRIZA Government are a government, as it was written, "living and perpetuating", that is, expresses the timeless Greece of the struggles for democracy, sovereignty, collective and personal dignity. Everyone - the Government and Members of the SYRIZA - feels the burden of the historical opportunities opened by the people's vote on 25 January - of possibilities, not of certainty - which will be judged not only by the honesty of our intentions, not only by our racing availability, but also by the daily presence, popular participation. For there cannot be any small or greater change without the people being present, the people being coordinated through procedures, the people as citizens and mass movements, the people being 'plate' in the morning, I have heard Mrs Papapaigas somewhat degrading and defaming referring to the spontaneousity of this popular vigilance, that expression of popular pride. What happened on January 25th? We must all think and reflect on ourselves, because if we do not understand what happened and parade from here as if nothing had happened, and we are just looking for each of us - and indeed the losers of the elections - a self-righteousness with the syndrome of the missing person who was sacrificed for the people and who did not understand anything from his sacrifice, then the evil really concerns us all and not just him, although first of all, who is not targeted. On 25 January, therefore, a political change took place, a change unprecedented for events in our country and Europe. There has been a overthrow of political correlations established for about thirty years - the entire post-government period. There has been no mere alteration of power parties. A new majority, populist power was formed, which claimed and won the government of the country. On the basis of what reality has this current formed? But, obviously, it was an antimony vote. And those who forget the word "memorandum" in their analyses, those who think that it is a secondary element and others are the mains, obviously do not understand what the popular conscience is today and the situation in which the people have come and what the cause of the problems that the people have experienced is. It was a memorial vote, therefore, not only a condemnation of the past, but also a search for hope on the left. In other countries, popular discontent or anger moves in other directions, unfortunately. In Greece, however, there is the popular maturity of anger to find a democratic appealing political expression. And this expression is the modern left such as programming, ideologically, movement has shaped his presence in Greece in recent years. It is important to understand the depth of this change, which is a reversal, because it is not a short-term and marginal victory, but it is something deeper both in terms of values and in terms of political claims and in terms of prospects. It is something deeper because it is a crack in a domination of neoliberalism in Greece and in Europe. It's a great crack in our country, in the undisturbed mythology of neoliberalism for so many years. It is important to realise that what happened yesterday on 25 January is not easy to overturn or be closed in convenient parentheses. What has happened has its own potential, which will have a longer duration, greater depth, more effectiveness to the extent that we who lead this effort - and first the government - will be able to express the popular expectations that are not excessive, but are simple, are daily. The Prime Minister did not make a report yesterday. He has not given a speech with many secret and undeclared political points. The Prime Minister has expressed a binding political plan, which is about negotiating with the partners, so that the country, through the regulation of the public debt issue, can be reinstated - because it is now not integrated through the regime of its degradation with the Memorandum and the Troika - in European reality and in the European Union. That's the first target. The second objective is the aim of conflict with the social forces, who are responsible together with the political establishment which collapsed on 25 January for the fate of our country, society and the economy. In other words, the aim is to clash with the forces of corruption, interoperable with large capital, which has always known prostates, regardless of who bainomide came out here as a majority. This is unfortunately the reality. It is clear that the way we are proposing is not an easy way. The way we propose is a way out of austerity. We don't have a magic wand. But we have a plan. This was also mentioned by the ministers who spoke today, but yesterday the Prime Minister of the country mentioned it. We have a plan that has conflicts and a search for agreements. Far from us, the Manichian dilemmas of compromise or rupture, which, on the other hand, will be - supposedly - the unworthiness of the party, but also the defeat of the country and the break-up - on the other hand - will be a dissolution to what exists today in our country. Oh, no! We, with a programme - I repeat - which seeks to achieve a mutual political agreement through controversy and consensus within and outside our country, seek to create a new reality that is positive for our country. That is why we are sad - and I speak sincerely - when those responsible for the destruction of the country are paralysing, his people yesterday and asking for the change from us. I have just heard Mr Venizelos - a person who has handled critical national affairs for many years, lastly the memorandum, the PSI, etc. - to ask the question: "But what do you want at last? Where would we find 700 billion to make a mild adjustment? We found 225 billion and made an adjustment that was tough and we did not want it for three years - four years." Okay. Let's talk seriously. The 225 billion was given only 10% of them, i.e. 25 billion, went to serve operating needs of the state, such as pensions, police function, etc. The remaining 200 billion went towards refinancing old debt, namely the rescue of creditors, banks, large European banks or new loans, in other words a new phase, a new overcompensation for the country. It is obvious that even today, in the arrest of those in charge of the crisis, there is no other project than the plan of subjection to a spiral of recession and over-lapping, i.e. a dependency. We have also heard, as if nothing happened on 25 January, the entire terrorist propaganda of previous years. Even Grexit was heard here again today and unfortunately Mr Venizelos. Even the ghost of Cyprus was resurrected here in front of us and, unfortunately, Mr Venizelos, a representative of a political area which, even in the present state of collapse, seeks to express some democratic historical traditions. So the Centre's site, the PASOK area, ladies and gentlemen, has not been created, created and bloomed on the basis of such terrorist dilemmas. Others offered the country and take your conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, with the result of the elections, the country seeks a new normality, which means reintegration into the European Union. It is clear that the government is not taking a step backwards. It is not air talk, it is not bilingualism, it is a commitment. Not a step back! This means that the notorious 'turn to realism', as some people mean realism, namely a compromise against people's interests, is not about our Government. We are not unsuccessful. The only realism that exists is to make it clear and to regulate that the debt is not sustainable. With today's debt there is no realistic prospect for the country. So flexibility, yes to negotiation, not bilingualism. It is clear that we are seeking to reach mutual agreement and not man-made dilemmas, as well as consensus on the basis of a clear political perspective, which is to leave the memoranda, the troika and austerity, and to open up and exploit a horizon of opportunities opened by the people's vote. We are seeking popular understanding, but also political consensus here on the basis - I repeat - of a clear line. It is clear that it is not possible, in the name of a consensus, to ask us to abandon the programme for which we were voted on by the Greek people. We have a lot in mind to think about, we have the optimism to guide us. But under no circumstances did we come to stick with selfishness to these chairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Friend. I inform you that two parliamentary representatives have already spoken, Mr Nicholas from the Independent Greeks and Mr Theocharis from Potami. However, I would ask them to consent to interfering with some Members, because the House has not yet heard enough. I therefore call on Mr Consola from New Democracy to place him. And I would ask, in the meantime, the Members who sit down in the mountains - and now they are quiet - whether they can be quiet during the speech of the speakers because what they say is being said here, which means that they can be written in the Minutes. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true in this Chamber that evidence of history is being presented which will be very important in the history of the country and I think that we cannot distinguish now which of them will be the ones that the citizen will judge in the future in confirming or denying his choice in the last few days. That is why we listen very carefully to all the positions. And I am one of those who listen very carefully to colleagues, as I heard the Prime Minister yesterday in his Programming Declarations and some of his reports on the reforms that are needed. Indeed, we could all sign up for some of them. That's the truth. In his speech, however, Mr. Tsipras asked us to support his Government's efforts as a Civic Opposition. I would say that the Prime Minister 'violates open doors'. It is for us that we will support this new effort of his government, because we are aware of this effort as a national one. Unfortunately, in the past two and a half years, SYRIZA has not done the same as Dedicated Opposition. We've all experienced it. You are aware of this by the Members who were in the previous term of office in this Chamber. And I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the Criminal Opposition then did not even consent to the setting of a hundred doses. At this juncture, however, there is no room for shading, settling and comparisons with the past. The New Democracy has to prove that it can offer the country and from the position of Officerial Response and will do so. It will exercise a responsible opposition that does not say anything, which is prepared to support an honest agreement with our lenders and partners in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the primary surplus you have questioned and did not recognize, has now become one of the dear arguments used by many of our fellow Members. You now recognise that the surplus and balanced budgets - which you had denied their necessity - have to be for the country. The citizens know - and you, along with them - that to travel all this distance, to remove the risk of exiting the euro in the summer of '12, a great deal of effort was needed. And we recognize that there were huge sacrifices from the citizens. Support for our national effort has a single condition, not to question the country's stay in the eurozone and in the European family. I'm the last person to be able to blame for danger and create a climate of fear. Many of the Vice-Presidents are aware of this. I always talk with arguments. It needs - I think - to dominate an objective and sober political speech in the public debate and, in particular, from this Step by the National Representation. But I would like to express my concern about the way in which the government is dealing with the negotiation. As much as I have seen in the past few days a shift towards realism - and I do not say it to death - you are following a tactic that entangles the country into deadlocks. And the distance between the deadlock and the rift, you know it's too small. There are many voices from SYRIZA calling for conflict with our partners at any cost. If that's possible! They're obviously ignoring what the cost might be. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a calm and responsible negotiation. You may be strengthened by acceptance of the average citizen's anger. But you must bear in mind that this evaporates very easily. Mr Venizelos said so before in his speech. We respect the popular verdict, the rules of democracy. We respect the result of the last elections. However, the mandate of the citizens is in no way to call into question the country's European path and its participation in the European Monetary Union. This must be remembered forever from now on. I said before that the risk is far from me, and that I am ready to recognise and support realistic positions that have been said by colleagues from the Opposition, but also by the Prime Minister from this Step. It is clear that you have abandoned the announcements of debt write-offs or an international debt conference, since you have seen that this is not possible and is in fact insulting. The realistic line of claim and negotiation in relation to the debt is related to the length of the repayment period and, in particular, to the amount of the interest rate. There is the key and the essence of the negotiation. I also noticed that the announcements were transferred over time which was clear that they were not costly. People'sism has temporary benefits that are evaporated when the promises are found to be impossible. We know it from time to time, especially from post-Culture. In any case, the incorporation of the banks was abandoned, while the original announcement of the abolition of the TIDED and the cancellation of investments such as the "COSCO" in the port of Piraeus, while the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, seems to have understood the need for privatisation of the OSE as well. At the same time, I would also point out the practical recognition of the fact that 67% of the reforms agreed between our government and the partners were and are in the right direction. I note that. In this context, however, there are issues to be investigated that have arisen from reading the Programming Statements of the Prime Minister. We have not heard from Mr Tsipras specialising in or making the plan - a bridge that he proposes to our partners. He hasn't explained what this is and what it includes. I am pleased to hear him express faith in respect of European rules. I must point out, however, that the revulsion of his speech on privatisations that can be made by transnational agreements and participation of the Greek public is an impact on the institutional framework and Community law. He spoke about the abolition of HISPIA in 2015. The Prime Minister has nevertheless avoided committing to the limit above which the large property tax will be imposed, which is something that creates not only great questions, but also ambiguities. So what would that limit be? Somebody has to tell us. In order to provide a tenth salary for pensioners receiving a pension of up to EUR 700, where there is a cost, it is assumed that there will be almost universal support from the Chamber. With regard to raising the minimum wage to 751 euros, the Prime Minister gradually transferred it until the end of 2016. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, let me just speak for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u125	Of course, Mr. Comrade. In all our colleagues, we are tolerating ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u126	The free market and the economy are not governed by presidential decrees. None of us are happy with the low wages, the high unemployment rate. We could even support why the minimum wage should be at EUR 751 and not at EUR 851 or EUR 1000. In fact, the market and the social partners determine the exact level. The more the economy develops, the more the workers' income is improved. That's the truth, that's what the market says. Ladies and gentlemen, let me take a closer look at what the Prime Minister has announced about the citizens' insurance system. I imagine we are all aware of the scale of the problem. For me personally is one of the top problems we have to face as a nation. We have talked about transferring resources from the creation of a fund of national wealth to deal with the problems of insurance. These messages are sound, but they are very general and unclear. What are the revenues to come from this fund? Where are they coming from? Some government sources have heard that they will come from revenues from the use of hydrocarbons deposits. Some people speak as if it is revenue that we already have, which we will have in two days. It seems that the next stage will also be to hear about the securitisation of this revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, we need seriousness and responsibility with regard to the approach to the insurance system. The announcements and cancellations in the context of privatisation and private investment effectively cancel the process under way for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. We have also heard some specific references to other issues, but we have not heard about tourism. I'm waiting for Mrs. Kouduras' placement. I believe, however, that tourism is a field of convergence and understanding. I know her sensitivity. I imagine he will. I come from - like other colleagues from SYRIZA - from a region that supports tourist development, and I firmly believe that the current of the last two years must not be stopped or the constants that shape this climate must be disturbed. On the contrary, we must strengthen the competitiveness of our tourism product. We are all aware of what an increase in VAT on tourism means or an increase in these factors that we have mentioned from this Step and we are defending these reduced rates on the Aegean islands and I think that it should not be - without - touching it. In the sense of the continuity of the state, but also of rationalization, I would like to ask the Ministry of Education's leadership in establishing the two university departments of tourism. You all know that for us it is a national objective to improve the quality of tourist services. I consider this institutional framework to be great and blessed which provides for the establishment of four sections of tourism policy and development, two at the University of the Aegean and two at the University of Crete. The same applies to the Institute of Tourism Research based in Rhodes. There was a homogeneous approach and even a claim of totality from local communities. To conclude, I would like to point out that the Isle of Insularity clause was a legislative initiative by our Government, a proposal which I had the honour of contributing to. It is therefore very important to recall that there is substantial content and that this clause could apply to every law of the State. All of these are some issues that can converging and have a field of synergy from all sides. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the country needs a new model of political behaviour. The New Democracy will show it as a Dedicated Opposition. Isotopeic logic, dogmas, practices of other times have no projection in the future. The government and the Prime Minister are responsible for negotiating. I hope and hope that I, along with others, understand the extent of responsibility. I hope they realize that they are not authorized to question the European perspective of the country. The New Democracy will guarantee and defend the country's euro stay and its participation within the European framework. None of us wish for failure, rupture and collapse, as two and a half years ago others have invested in the government's failure, even if this was linked to the country's failure. We all have the same responsibility and responsibility towards the country and the citizens. This is a message that no one can pass. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Consola. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the Gymnasium of Peedini Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Diamantopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would ask you to put the time-limits on the table so that I can see it, so that I can stop in an acceptable context. Ladies and gentlemen, the people made a clear choice on 25 January. This option came from neoliberal memoranda policies. It was an incision in the country's life. It was an incision to the lives of the citizens. For the first time, they understood what to say 'travel'. They experienced 11% of the millionaire growth in their line. They lived in the neighborhood, in their surroundings, in their family environment, the 6.3 million of their fellow citizens, who were on the line and below the poverty line. From this mandate and clear choice, a government emerged. A hundred and forty-nine Members were given to SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks entered the House - despite the political 'linings' that were accepted in the two and a half years that were here, in this Parliament - and this government took this mandate for strong negotiation, to fight to make the debt viable, to remove the austerity, to halt the disaster that was achieved and only by the election of this government, to address the humanitarian crisis, to relaunch the economy and to reconstruct the place. Two and a half years both parliamentary groups have done a lot of work. The parties that make up the government did a lot of work, had suggestions and positions. This in response to those who say that this government has no plan. There were specific commitments and programming commitments. The first days of this government found the Prime Minister and the Ministers on an endless journey in Europe - where they would theoretically find closed doors - to discuss things that were unheard of for so many years, to put the agenda on the agenda the issue of debt write-offs, to table a reasonable programme - our programme, not of lenders, not of BSE - on how to restart the economy, how the wealth will be shared, against the most violent redistribution of wealth that has taken place in its time. In the first few days, the people realised what it means to pursue foreign policy and that they are not intertwined with the country's economic situation. So the first answer was that we are going to codecision in the European Union, that we have a different view of the European rules on foreign policy and relations with Russia. There was an intervention, which did not allow new measures to be taken and it was not so aggressive that the statement could create a truly chaotic breach in the relations between the European Union and Russia. It has, indeed, started a direct and tough negotiation. It's hard, though, to cause concern only in the former government bloc. Because to our people outside, it gives rise to enthusiasm. The world, the people, that the government is no longer characterized by hatziabaian attitudes, that it is ready to claim the right of the people. In this we have a criticism from the standpoint of Antipopulation, which is obviously caused by embarrassment. We understand that, completely. It comes on the one hand to say that it consents and supports, on the other, that we have already done 'assuming'. In the end, however, it is concerned that tough negotiation can lead us supposedly to Grexit or any other scenario that has been recovered since the election period. He has not yet realized that we have exceeded the election period, that the world has not been afraid, that it has not been terrified and decided. They are also blaming us - and I would like to point out that, because it was by-passing - for the minimum guaranteed income. But who? The New Democracy and the PASOK, which have really led, through internal devaluation and monumental policies, to the destruction of this place, to the health poverty they have created through the deterioration of health services. We are also accused of Potami, a newly established party, which insisted that elections should not arise - through the presidential election - in order to continue this policy. Some of this parliamentary group - the concise, anyway, which has been formed - holds a symphony for rights. A little DMAR reminds me, you've seen her luck. You blame us for insisting on these neoliberal policies. One experience I had in the time I was a Member of Parliament was that through the Greek Parliament they tried to extend the allowance for mountainous disadvantaged areas. PASOK and the New Democracy, which are taking over reforms and fighting for the minimum guaranteed income, have answered my questions and requests - to form a European directive, which they could do - that all three ministries were unreserved. That was the answer. Finally, because I do not want to abuse time, I would like to say that the people recognize everything that the government has done in the first days and supports. There's an undeclared economic war. We've lived through him. Our fellow citizens live in him. GDP has fallen by 25%. Neither of us and any of our fellow citizens are indifferent to any fantasy that because our demands are fair, we will go, we will testify and they will be accepted. We have a war. In this war we won the first battle on January 25th. But there will be defeats. There will also be tactics to follow. But at the end of the day there will always be this taste left of the first days of this government. We will fight for democracy, for dignity and for the interests of the people's strata. I want to give an answer to Mr. Venizelos who has urged us to enjoy power and victory. To all those who listen to us and those who are in here I want to say that we are not here to enjoy any authority and no victory. We are moved by the responsibility and the ability that the people have given us to fight for their fairness. We are moved to see the world give us courage. We're here to fight for all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Diamantopoulos. Please come to Stepma Mr.Ioannis Rabbit from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u130	Today I am given the opportunity to speak from the Step of the House after seventeen months of illegal and unconstitutional detention, of illegal detention reserved for the regime of the Samara Government against the leader of the Golden Dawn, to many MPs and just many members who have done nothing but faithful Greek patriots. A few hours ago, the Minister of Justice spoke about this, and said that no one is being persecuted for the mind. I would like to remind him and stress to all of you that the leader, MPs and members of the Golden Dawn are persecuted only for this thing. Only for their minds. There is a legal record of eight hundred pages - which anyone who has doubts can read - and there is going to be a very short court. I really want it to happen, because a lot of people will get rid of it. In this case, then, the chief, the Golden Dawn MPs, and many of its members, have no criminal or malicious act, but only have speeches. Somewhere we talked, we said something, and what we said was the encouragement to take criminal action. This has never been done anywhere. They only get here. And if that's what makes you feel proud here, we're here to tell us. We have been listening for too many years in this House and outside of society for a fake, and you will allow me to say, humanity or, if not, fake, conscientiously, according to the will, where it is of interest to us. Some people are doing criminal acts. Some people are doing terrorist acts. But they're covered behind the rebel cloak. And a political party, the third in the country, is persecuted only for speeches and speeches. So where's your humanism? You don't have to go to Tanganica. You don't have to go to the end of the earth. It's in front of your eyes. It's in the Greek Parliament. It's in Greek society. You've devalued four hundred thousand Greek citizens. You blame us for racist and fascists, but the worst racism that has prevailed over the last forty years in Greece is for anyone who dares to speak and say he is a golden man. Is he an artist? Is he a singer? Is he an actor? Is he a politician? Is he a man of the carpet? If he dares to say that he supports Golden Dawn, that he votes Golden Dawn, is sent to the fire outside, no one wants to trade with him and not only that - that is your right, let us do it, but don't tell us you're democrats - but he's already persecuted. Let us judge this and obviously the Greek people judge it. There was a gang in here that you know very well and that in the forthcoming court will prove a lot of things, because there are a lot of things that you don't all know about, which the media big-workers have hidden, who have concealed so that people don't hear and know. In a court where we are causing the trial to be open, which we are causing there to be channels in, because we are a criminal organization, since we are criminal MPs, we must see all the world and condemn us. We're not afraid of it. So these things will prove to be awkward in a few months, if they have the guts - I repeat - to take us and complete this trial. Because I doubt it. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of the country from Stepa spoke at some point on the issue of the PPE, about what he has done all these years, and especially over the past few years, about their political opponents' monitoring, about the manners, about all the mechanics he has done, so that anyone who is not good enough to be marginal, who does not do what the rest want to go to prison. With what the Prime Minister said in this part of course, we agree, but I would like to mention that those who have the most right of all to speak are us. We experienced them right now, and we're going to be referred to a court of law, because the jury officers of the Greek Police in combination with politicians who were up until some time ago in these chairs and were presenting the MPs, but for me they are the largest gangsters that were there, watching our phones, watching our moves, watching everything and not just this, but they knew and there is an official document that I will present whenever you want, according to which my own phone, the Chief, but also many executives are being watched since 2010. The worst thing in this case is that they knew that neither criminals nor criminals were anything else. They'd have arrested us ever since. They knew our innocence very well, but they couldn't leave us out anymore. Golden Dawn percentages were launched, the resonance we had in the world was amazing, so they put us in jail for talks. We are here waiting for what the Prime Minister said and we are waiting for the exemplary punishment of all this. Because at the moment that we are talking about here, the Chief, I repeat, the third political party, who has done nothing illegal, is incarcerated in the cells of honour for us. It'll prove a lot of things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to summon up two three facts, but rather because I see that time is running out and I do not want to abuse it, I will refer a little to the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, who spoke a few minutes ago and told us that we need to deal with and see what is going on with the Lagard list, we need to see what is going on with the tax evasion lists. We agree, but he didn't tell us anything else, that the JRC itself has said that he never agrees to control his fund. Why does he not agree to control the JRC fund? Is the JRC more than the Greek state? So let's get started and check out all these big ones. We are together in this struggle that will take place in the big-fashioned, to those who have taken the sea loans and exploit the Greek people, but also to enter the JRC offices and see what control is. He cannot speak of such a party when he took a television frequency from the Greek state, when that frequency took advantage of it for years and when he became a burden on him anymore - because while he will save all Greek workers, his own cannot save them, he had them unpaid and fired them - when all this was done, the television station was sold. Where? An offshore company. Look at them, see them, and we're here to talk about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. I give the floor to Mrs Catherine Iglezi. Subsequently, the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks who expects noblely, as will the Parliamentary Representative of the River, who expects politely. But I think it would be appropriate for some colleagues to speak. Then, too, the ministers are politely waiting for me and so on. Aristides Baltas, Terrence Quick and Nikolaos Hountis. We will also have a similar interference, of course, with some colleagues. Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the natural environment is our home, our vital space and place. Its protection and rational management are not luxury either in times of prosperity or in times of economic crisis. It's a matter of survival and quality of life. The natural environment is neither a product for sale or a product for sale nor an obstacle to the investors' plans which must in any way be circumvented. I will give you a typical example from my place of Halkidiki, Halkidiki as an experiment to implement the hard neoliberal doctrine "investments at all costs" of the previous government and Halkidiki as an example of economic, social, environmental reconstruction and transformation of our own government. The mining plan of the Hellenic FRYSOS S.A. and the Canadian "ELDORADO GOLD" in Halkidiki was presented by previous governments as an investment model. But is it? The Greek State sold common resources and public space to a private company. And I'm talking consciously about selling. Consider that the European Court of Justice took the view that the price for the medal market was unduly low and imposed on the company a payment of EUR 15.4 million to the State. The Greek State appealed before the company itself against this decision. Obviously, the funds were filled with cuts in wages and pensions. The multinationals didn't have to pay. The state didn't stay there. He offered all possible help and facilitation to the holding company. The control mechanisms overlooked violations of national and European legislation, illegality and infringements of environmental conditions. The majority of the government took care to legislate in such a way as to serve the interests of the private company and to legalise its illegality and arbitrariness. At the same time, the disproportionate cost of environmental impacts has been called upon to bear local communities. 'They' were euphemised. In fact, they were tried to be forced and blackmailed by criminalisation and misinformation. In a place where mining has evolved into a monoculture, a part of the local society is caught and dependent on this activity. And this part has rushed to adopt and project in the last few days the media of interactivity, when for them the fired cleaners, school guards, the dynamic Halkidiki Movement were invisible. Lucky? Here too, the only argument in favour of mining is the creation of jobs, an argument that is easily destroyed. It is enough to calculate the jobs that will be lost because of mining activity. The most polluted worldwide activity competes with a position of validity with other productive and economic activities such as agriculture, livestock, tourism and others and undermines the prospects for sustainable development of the region. Finally, it does not contribute positively either to the local or national economy. The previous governments considered that investment could be carried out easily without the consent of local communities. They were wrong. No matter how hard the repression is, no matter how painful criminalization is, local communities have the final word. All this changes with our government. The environment stops being the subject of unconditional wild exploitation. Local societies stop being treated as decorative elements, without opinion and will. Investments at any cost cease to be panacea. "Sufficient crimes have been committed at the expense of our natural wealth," the Prime Minister said yesterday in the Programmatic Declarations. The current government stops the destruction of Halkidiki. At the same time, it sets a framework for economic, social and environmental reconstruction and transformation, with dialogue, planning and cooperation with the local communities, in order to stop the destruction and hostage of the place by the monoculture of the mines, with emphasis on the extremely comparative advantages of the region, the diverse natural, cultural and historical environment and the potential for sustainable development. Our position in relation to the productive model brings to the heart the needs and living conditions of citizens, environmental protection and democracy, focusing on the will of local societies. In the case of Halkidiki, the current government must move into three main axes. It is the cancellation of so-called welfare investment and a plan to protect people who are currently working in the mines and the declassification of the entire mining area. The second axis is environmental restoration, on which the above workers can work. The third axis is the reconstruction of the local economy and production, with full respect for the natural and anthropogenic environment and active participation of society. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be tired of repeating that the natural environment is common good and we must all have access to its services. It's vital space and resource. The natural environment is the condition for life and creation and we must protect it at all costs. Together with the people of Halkidiki, along with the Greek people, I am voting for the vote of confidence in this government of hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Iglezi. I call on the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine you all know the proverb that says 'the good day since this morning seems'. Nearly twenty-five years I have been in this Chamber and I have not seen, as I see today, the Prime Minister coming to watch and listen to the representatives of the people. Mr. Tsipras, you continue to offer us pleasant surprises.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u135	Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u136	I want to tell you something by representing what you all know, as we all know very well in this Chamber and you know where my broom holds. I want to testify, however, that it's true beyond. I believe those who listen to me all over Greece won't think it's an exaggeration. Besides, I've never flattered the ears of power in those twenty-five years. All the Presidents of the New Democracy had been saddened and malicious, but it is true that this new government has made all Greeks proud, regardless of what they voted for. Keep making us proud, Prime Minister. In fact, you are told by people who have never imagined that they might be in agreement with you, either by giving their vote of confidence, or after the elections showing tolerance, much more their gratitude, because, at last, it turns out that they are not all the same, but that there are still incompatible Greek politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a second surprise that I felt and that I have never lived in this Chamber before, the President of this House should be from the outset and chairing it all the time. And not only that, but we see that we have a president who is not just a child-children, he is not a decorative person. We have seen this today when, without commenting on the speeches of colleagues, it reminded all of us what the Constitution or the Rules of Procedure provide for. I wish, Madam President, that the microphones from the'mountains' of the House were heard by those who did not like them at all. I did not understand why the Couple Members voted for the President, but they say they did not want her to be what it is! And so, immediately thereafter, they also made statements: 'But we have voted on you!'. And what did that mean? It meant that you had to get into this logic 'given and received' and after we voted you have to make concessions. Since I am going to vote for this government today, I have to make concessions, ideological policies or my colleagues at SYRIZA! But it's not like that! And that's what's been meeting for the first time. It's not easy, but we'll make it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard Mr Venizelo say that he will no longer lie about what he said - he says - now he said. Well, he was young then, now he's grown up! But he's cutting it? He said we should do a committee of inquiry on the third memorandum. What's the third memorial? He says it's what's coming. Mr. Venizelos also said other inseparable verbs, who was disturbed. Why? The government said that neither we car MPs nor the one with that EUR 750,000 should be provoking. He said it was populism, as we heard from this one, the Stepma. Well done, Mr. Venizele, you are right, it was populism, as long as it is populism for people's representatives to take you here that three and a half million people live below the poverty line, that in my town and other cities we see people every day in the trash cans! "After this success of pressing," Mr.Mitsotakis said here today. Good, great success! He also said: 'And continue with this success', namely the one and a half million unemployed to continue to make them how many, Mr Mitsotakis? But he lost his sleep, and he told us, and it was a nightmare every night that he fired people! And now that a government has been found to say that not only will I continue to fire, but I will stand by solidarity and respect for these people, somehow it comes to them and abuses them. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish, however, to everyone, to the young and to the new colleagues and to the experienced and to those who took the baptism of fire just a few days ago a successful and fertile term. I also feel the need to express my deep desire that this House, in its existing structure and form, I believe - since the beginning has shown it, so I think - should leave the dark moments behind, such as acts of legislation. Let new colleagues and Greek citizens count, how many legislative acts have been signed since 1974 and how many have been signed in the years of the memorial glaciers. It leaves behind this process of tabling unrelated to the main issues of draft amendments and other tens of legislation in urgent procedure. There is no doubt that the Greek Parliament must regain its morality, role and importance, demonstrating clearly that it is the 'house of the people' and not the home of the local, foreign bosses, the memorandum bearers, all those who, when asked for by the previous government, said to her in a free manner, but were not found to give any answers. Even when I said at this step about these people and about what I said through parliamentary control or through our public appearances, I even received attacks and pressures and complaints. He didn't sweat anyone's ears not to defend a MP, but to show that the political system is not all part of their "payroll". On 25 January the Greek people voted for it gave a clear command to the new government: "Let the country be free from the unbearable balance of the memorandum. Protect the afflicted but proud country from all kinds of predators. Give us back our steel pride, give us our homeland, which is watered by the blood of our ancestors." The new government therefore has a moral obligation to honour this popular mandate to the end. It is clear that the age of tenderly objected to the roof of Chancelloria has passed unreturned, because that is how the Greek people decided. The unscrupulous herd headed by him - remember? - 'no sinner' belongs to the past. The cubisms inside and outside Greece were finished, and whoever addicted to them, to go to the gym of his neighborhood. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that we are experiencing historic times. This is the first time after forty years of parliamentary democracy that this country is not governed by those we have known as traditional gladiators. Today Greece is governed by two parties that were manned in the years of the harsh crisis by the increasing need for the people to escape the black and deadless fate that the policies of endless austerity have given him, as Mr. Friends explained a moment ago. With the experience and responsibility of this long term parliamentary term after ten re-elections, let me repeat that the people together require a new ethos of justice and integrity in politics. And this pandemic requirement is so powerful that anyone who underestimates it or stands against it will destroy it. Of course, they are days of great responsibility for all, ladies and gentlemen, and we know that. It is days of responsibility for the government, which is called upon to restore national and social dignity, to negotiate effectively and seriously with its partners and to face up to this great humanitarian crisis. They are days of responsibility for all economic and social actors, who should understand that Greece of patronage, of all kinds of runways and of the days has gone bankrupt. We're not that many people in this place, and we know each other very well. That is why we do not have the luxury of many easy splits. Unified, there's a lot we can do. Split up - you know it and we know it - we're not gonna get anything. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very interested in these first days of action of the new government, and I myself, like all the Greeks, have seen, like the great majority of the Greeks, that this government has begun this great effort to get away from the great extent of absolute weakness and submissive attitude, the one that characterised the governments of George Papandreou, Antonis Samaras, Vangelis Venizelos. We know this project is very difficult. In the next few days, I believe that our lenders will be devastated by stepping up their threats, not against the government, but against the country. As representatives of the nation, we should all do the same. But no, Mr. Consola, in words. In other words, we are not'supporting the government, but we are not giving a vote of confidence'. I am not optimistic, therefore, that this cohesion will be achieved, but I hope that, for the sake of the country - or else - efforts will be made. One thing I would like to ask the former-government colleagues who have shown today that there is no reason for them to be in two different formations. I saw my colleagues, my former allies, of the New Democracy, enthusiastically applauding Evangelos Venizelos, the one whom, as Antonis Samaras had expressly committed, would send him to join another politician. Let us all at last denounce the arrogant officials of the troika who provokedly also the country and all of us here, the parliamentary men. It is imperative that we strongly claim everything we have put forward in our election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, the people demand justice. It also calls for the punishment of those who have really ‘eaten them’. Allow me to say a few words - and I shall end - about the conflict of SYRIZA - ANEL, a marriage that many people consider strange and especially foreigners, those who certainly are not on the same side of the table as the Greek people, those who are opposite the Greek people. I'll say a few words and it's heart talk. It is obvious - as I said at the beginning - that they divide us and divide me into great ideological differences with SYRIZA. Firstly, on the issue of the name of FYROM, our different position on the solution of the complex name is expressed. It is not at the moment to stand up to it, but we are recording our different viewpoint. Secondly, on the issue of citizenship for second generation children, we have a different approach as a whole within our own integrated immigration policy. On the right occasion, we will expose our positions and we will be placed. Our aim is to create a pioneering, radical, government proposal, with full respect for national sovereignty and the principles of transparency and justice. Allow me, this plan of reconstruction and development to present it to the Minutes of the House for those colleagues or citizens who would like to find out what our specific proposals are. Time doesn't allow me to say any more. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are very much united at this particular moment of time by much more and much more important than we are divided. And that is the demand to unleash the country from the moor of the memorial, to try to restore the authority of politics and to prove that we are not all of us, not all of us, nor all of us. It is the satisfaction of the people's mandate for a rule of law, the defence of the rights of citizens to dignity and to the partition. Here, we must say that we do not start and we do not end with the reintroduction to the work of the cleaners. We will not forget those who are in availability, teachers and other workers. Finally, we do not forget the enormous need to unite all Greeks, left-wing, right-wing and centralist in a common cause for a common hope. And the burden falls on you, Prime Minister. A burden I don't know if you ever imagined, that you should prove that you can express all Greek women and all Greeks. We wish it from our hearts, we will do so by our vote, we will give all our strength to achieve this government of social salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. I call on the Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Madam President. It is my first speech from this sacred Step in programme statements as Parliamentary Representative of the River after Evangelos Venizelos and with the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Alexis Tsipras, to honour me to listen to me. As you can see, the fate beatings for me are unresolved, so forgive me a certain trake. We have followed, ladies and gentlemen, by the Prime Minister, and we have been following the most critical programming statements from the last few years by the ministers. They are statements that they are following with us and abroad, which will create conditions of exit from the apparent deadlock, or will exacerbate the conflict, which would like to erase the maliciousness of the previous days. The country has no luxury for delays and pluralism, for indecisiveness or procrastination. We invite you to start the job immediately and with an impulse. Potami will be here to support what is right promoted, without opposition zeal, without the mistakes of the past, mistakes that you have made in the past as Opposition. But we will be here and to subject you to the suffering of fertile criticism, when you are dealing with matters with urgency, when you do not promote real reforms, monitoring the government work systematically, judging your actions in relation to your announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we seen these first days from the government? We have seen a mood of tough negotiation, which has made everyone in a state of redefinition of their strategic position. That was good. But the good came all the way there. Then we started running to collect our excesses. They started traveling and the original mistake to start from a country outside the euro, thankfully corrected. But what were the results? If there was one, they were rather invisible or at the level of personal relations. I'm not reducing them. Personal relations must exist and be built. But that's not good enough. The country needs results immediately. Time is running out. The liquidity in the economy is small with businesses suffocating for funds. The funds of the state are marginal because you cultivated the culture of non-payment. The Prime Minister said before the elections he did not pay HISPIA, but yesterday he called on the citizens to do so. I don't think that's why people are to blame. Ladies and gentlemen, what did we hear yesterday and what do we hear all day? A government forgotten in the election struggle. Contrasts, ambiguities, vows, backwards. "The four of them weighed them -- would the continental, random? - but I don't know what's heavier." The Prime Minister told us that he has been ready for some time with a courageous programme that he can agree tomorrow, but that his previous government has put his knife in his throat by requesting an extension of the memorandum for only two months. Let's decide which of the two applies. Either he wanted an extension of the memorandum or he could get rid of it immediately. But unwittingly he revealed to us what he wanted: to prolong the memorandum, just not to do it. You are talking about dealing with the humanitarian crisis, and this is close to our positions on the fight against extreme poverty. We support the strengthening of the fragmented social protection net, but we support them with active prevention policies, not support programmes for the NGO of the Church. A government - supposedly - on the left, rather than separating the State - Church, assumes the role of the latter. All this without a sense of cost. One example is enough. We are listening to the measure of reintroducing the EUR 12 000 tax. Costs are 2.4 billion. I know we may disagree, but believe me, Prime Minister, it's 2.4 billion. Almost the surplus or twice the minimum guaranteed income for eight hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. At the same time, did you find out what these 2.4 billion missing from the budget will replace? Did you increase taxes? Are we finally going to 60% maximum rate? Finally, say it clearly. The Greek people are not entitled to clear words? Instead, what did we hear? Regular wishes: Political will to combat tax evasion, intensification of controls, exhaustion of lists, etc. I wish there were. I'll be the first to welcome her. However, a government which has been proclaiming a reduction in the number of ministries and has not abolished one, does not give us much hope that it will defeat the smugglers, as we would like, and as the Minister said, Mr Mardas. Ideas thousands of years old, with which many reformists "were juveniles and old". Ideas without innovation. So where are the reforms that the river has said it will support? How will development come to allow your policies to be implemented? Wishing? Is there a plan for export development? If there is, we didn't hear it. Can we escape the crisis by maintaining the last position of export performance in Europe? Where is the occupied private sector in your mind? I'll tell you, nowhere! Are we developing with the hydrocarbons, which, although no major investor was found in the recent tender, will the bankrupt pension funds be supported? We're out of public domain. And therefore we have broken down the private economy. Housewives die every day and survive the smugglers, tax fugitives, socks. We have seen no announcement of merital choices to the heads of the Services for off-elections. What will we have instead? Change of guard to the party armies? I wish we were wrong. If we're wrong, we'll admit it and we'll welcome the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you're not in the opposition anymore. Somebody has to tell you. Maybe the victory drunk won't let you come together. The opposition has privileges. You can speak on the part of society, represent who you think. But when you govern, you rule in the name of all Greeks, both workers and employers, and pensioners and young people, and public and private employees. And you must give solutions to everyone in the spirit of justice and in the light of efficiency. There's another drawback to being a government. Your numbers, your expenses revenues, must be balanced. We heard you in the election period say anything you want to say without any cost. Now we can't do that. You are talking about balanced budgets, the other about primary balances, the other about small surpluses. I'm beginning to wonder if you understand the differences. I don't want to tidy up, though. We are already seeing some steps to turn to realism, especially by the Minister of Finance. I wish we could see more. For example, we have heard this: it agrees with 70% of the reforms in the memorandum. What else did the Minister of Finance tell us? How the name of the program will be changed and it will be called a bridge. We don't mind that. We're rivers, our bridges like them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u139	The rivers don't like bridges because they're going over it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u140	Let us do better with these illustrations, because recent events may create other gatherings.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u141	The bridges sometimes fall!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u142	He also told us he would not have the troika, he would have the OECD for the reforms. Aren't they employees? The toolbox, which you fought so hard, wasn't it the OECD? We understand your anxiety to hide the fact that the plan - the long-awaited - revolves around the same and the same. But that's not what we're interested in. What matters is to make changes for the benefit of the country and to reform for the benefit of the people. Changes and reforms that the river suggests but also supports. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard so many announcements from the Prime Minister's mouth and we have not heard a word about a proper measure: the minimum guaranteed income. We consider it necessary to implement it immediately, as my colleague, Vice-President Libertyrakis, developed it in the morning, which seems to have diluted Mr Diamantopoulou, who, instead of answering the substance, developed a theory on DIMAR, etc. Take note - and especially you, Mr Diamantopoulou - of the new one, do not reinstate the old one. I will give one last example. You told us about the stockings. We hear things we've heard before, there'll be a statement, and if the property isn't declared, he'll be confiscated. In addition to the practical problems of confiscation in foreign countries, is there no constitutionalist among those who advise you? Can a lack of a statement abolish the right to property? Will there be a judge who deserves the title that will accept the law as according to the Constitution? What will the European Court of Justice say? Do you want an enclosure book? Complete the register. Without what do you have? You have little. Bring speeding up legislation and we will support it. Enable the vessel register voted by the previous government. Immediate links with banks, repository, Stock Exchange, etc. That's how we're going to get a reserve. We will help, but not with thick words. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis wants boldness, ideas, courage and efficiency. We expect this from the government. No, we demand it. For two reasons, why would our country not have an easy chance if it were to be smashed, but because this government blackmailed the elections in the name of a new agreement? Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have given the government a threefold mandate: firstly, to negotiate hard. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Secondly, it is honestly to get the best result for the country within the existing framework. Thirdly, do not come out of the European Union and the euro. This is what the government has to do, regardless of programs and inappropriate announcements. Potami, Parliament's third democratic force is here to support the country's European prospect. Don't play the krone - letters. Potami has already proposed three things: Immediate agreement with little prerequisites on our part, so that the country and the economy will not run out after the end of February. Agreement on ending austerity with small primary surpluses. Reduction of interest and debt adjustment. National reform plan - real, not false - that will turn the country into a modern European state. If the government moves in this direction, it will find us allies. Because we hear things about recourse to the people, if things make it difficult, and some more, one thing to know: The people spoke and spoke recently. It is nationally dangerous that the country should pay preoccupational views of specific left-wing officials - with a few extreme right-wing government coalitions. It is nationally dangerous to put internal or intra-government issues in the national interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u143	You should be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u144	I'm not ashamed. Besides, you saw what happened to the previous government when he did something like that. It is dangerous to play with the real interests of the country, no matter how difficult it is to make political decisions. Take responsibility and rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u146	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Quick, Mr. Baltas has the floor. Would you like to make a brief speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u148	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u149	Please, Mr. Quick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u150	I do not allow the representative of the most harsh Memorandum of Economic Policy, Mr. Theocharis, and all those who had been harassed by the contractors and by the interests and have put them under endless days and hours and pages, to question the European orientation of the Independent Greeks. I, Mr Theocharis, was in the signing of the Treaty of Greece in the EEC on Constantine Karamanlis. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] I, Mr Theochari, was not in the 'EEC and NATO the same syndicate' as your leader. I, Mr Theocharis, have always been in the spirit of democracy with selected partners, where I worked, on the private initiative, on the left, on the right, as long as they deserved to work with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u151	And all the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u152	From there on, finish this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u153	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u154	Finish this story because the Independent Greeks have demonstrated that they are always looking for the solution within the European Union and within the Eurozone. We've not got contractors' jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, my name has been mentioned twice or three times!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u157	First of all, if there are any Members asking for the floor, they can ask for it and be given it. Mr Diamantopoulou is asking for the floor. Why, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, my name has been mentioned three times. I made a political comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u159	That's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u160	I ask for the floor on your staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u161	You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u162	Look, as to whether I am dizzy or not, my speech proved it. On the other hand, I would say to colleagues in Potami and not personally to someone that the whole world is dizzy, even the one who voted for them because they had a good idea and would call us on 26 January. So because they were rejoicing that they were bringing the new one and all that proves by their proposals is that it is an abstract symptom in this Chamber, I tell them again to stay there, to show respect, to learn from the rest and slowly with proposals - which we have not seen in any way - that we and the world appreciate what you are anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Diamantopoulou. You spoke less than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u164	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u165	Mr Colleague, what is your point of order? As a dentist?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u166	Not as a dentist. On staff, in response to Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u167	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u168	First of all, Mr Quick, I have not raised any personal questions with you. The position of our country in the European Union also requires certain positions, such as anti-Semitism, which are outside the European Union's thinking context. When you have made statements as a party, for example, that Jews in our country pay less taxes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u169	You're a liar too! Read the announcements and then talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u170	Okay. In any case, I had no question of staff. Our party has received the least funding and is a party that will actively support - because this mud that we are a party of contractors must finally end - any initiative by the government is in favour of transparency, is against corruption, it is against contractors, as you say, in favour of stopping the'seaweeds' and any such initiative. We're waiting for her from the government. You rule and we wait for your initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Theochari. I would remind you that Members of Parliament are entitled to speak on personal grounds, when they are insulted with their honour or when the contents of their positions and positions are distorted. In order not to have frictions, when the suspicion, even personal, is evident, we will not be confronted. I shall give you the floor, as I have done for Mr Quik and for Mr Diamandopoulos and for Mr Theocharis. Now, I call on the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Aristides Balta. You have the floor, Mr Balta, for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. I consider it my duty to begin by expressing the enormous honour I feel in this Step, following the vote of the Greek people at SYRIZA and the Prime Minister, who has chosen me - also at the highest price - for this post. Before I get to the bottom of the speech, I want to bring you a story. A statement by President Barack Obama, who calls on Mrs Merkel to express her position on what she thinks Greece should do to get back into the process of the European Union by changing the programme that is there. This means that at the moment America is saying almost the same thing as we are saying: Mrs Merkel, please tell us where we are making a mistake, so that we can enter the main debate and not just stay in the exhortation 'Follow the rules. Ends.’ I think the news is important and it helps the conversation further. I continue by saying that the price I expressed earlier that I feel is linked to a form of awe, awe of the size of a responsibility. But this awe is not associated with fear. It is associated with optimism, because the unselfish offer, both quantitative and qualitative, of many people is so great that it gives us the assurance that we will be able to respond to that responsibility. Usually these moments the conversation is what we received. There are clichés, "we have received chaos", "we have received various heavy and terrible lands", which when they are said in this way are usually avoiding the responsibility for themselves to address the problems that were actually found in a kind of deferral, so that things can slowly turn around, to be done as they were before. We're not going to follow this tactic. I will start by saying that we have received problems. In particular, we have received many problems, withdrew judicial decisions, loose endings for years and should have been solved two years ago. We have to resolve these in parallel with what we have to do. We have received outbreaks - we are starting to track them - where the ruffles are being dragged and the mechanisms are being prepared to make the new ones. We have received all levels, problems with scandals, but we are still in the investigation process. And I want to say here that there will be no scandal leaks. There won't be any suspicion of dragging into the air. Every thing we find and locate will come here or to the appropriate judicial authority along with the process of implementing the mandate, together with the process of resolving this problem. In other words, let journalists not look for leaks. Let's make research reports, help us, too. However, we have not only received problems of these categories. We've also received people. We have received many civil servants who have expressly and unequivocally - as long as we have been able to find these few days - their willingness to work, their willingness to create, their willingness to enter a new effort for the whole country. We have received officials, some in suffocation, some in the 'freezer', but nonetheless they are ready to help. We've received other things. We have received requests, whether collectively, which have been raped, either individually, to express requests for pain, pain, the sense of injustice, that something is not solved. And because there are no appropriate institutions, these requests are directed directly to the Minister and to the responsible political leadership. Unfortunately, such requests cannot be dealt with at the personal level. Such requests can only be addressed by institutions, procedures and rules that we should start to impose and establish as we move on to things and to solve problems. Finally, we have received something else. We have received vague but unambiguous but unambiguous - take as you want the counter-compensation - mediation efforts, i.e. attempts to establish themselves with the new political leadership of the Ministry of Education, information networks - I know - help and so on, which we should say, 'What good is we do all together'. The answer was given by a well-known person, who was approached because he knew the new minister. The answer he has given is disarmament and can generally apply as far as the government is concerned. The answer was: "When we become PASOK, we will let you know." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In practice, this means that the new political leadership of the Ministry of Education and - according to the Prime Minister's statements - all the leaderships of all the ministries will be relied solely on the existing officials. Counsellors, advisors' armies will advise - where necessary - the respective political leadership, but will not in any way play the role of the instructor, the one who gives the orders, so that employees will obey. From there on, we will rely on the officials with full political unreliance and creating the right atmosphere to feel joy and creativity when they are at the Ministry and work. Of course, anything that has to do with dishonesty, corruption, ruffetti and the others will be systematically played and at an appropriate time at a time. I took over - I am sorry for the first person, I am not used to it in such cases, but the occasion imposes it - a ministry with too many items and the merger of these items is a first step towards the major administrative reform announced yesterday by the Prime Minister. So I will devote my speech primarily to what this merger means to us. I list: sport, culture, education, education at all levels, scientific research, religions. Let me start with the humbler, sport. We need to see sport as sport, connect it to the human body, the need to be healthy in the human body, because only so in the ancient saying, and the mind can be healthy. We need to connect sport to our traditions, connect him to the ancient heritage - if you like - the gymnasiums, which, in the course of etymology, became gymnastics, because just gymnastics are nursing mind and body together, connecting him to newer ideas, not just ancient ones, to modernity. Spinosa, for example, said that mind and body is one. On the one hand, the human being is viewed as a mind, on the other hand, as a body. So we must link sport not just to the games, not just to the racing process of the record, but to the sport itself, the well-being of sport and the function of this well-being with the well-being of the mind. Mr. Kontonis will develop our programme for sport in more detail. I just want to say that all this doesn't imply that we're against championship. We're against the doping, against all of these hardships of overprofessionalization, if not just the professionalisation of sport. From there on, everything badly we find there - and there is too much - will explain to you how we will deal with it. The bodies are part of societies, societies bear civilizations. Body and culture in this sense, sport and culture - if you like - sport and culture go together. Culture is a very complex concept. It's about habits and habits that go way back in time. They are what we usually call "the good of Greek history", hospitality, generosity, treating, "the poor who has no choice but to buy you but to save, to return money to the home" and much more, cheer, coffee shop, chat, politicization and so on. It's a form of culture. In connection with this culture, so-called culture in a more specific sense, cultural production, cultural achievements. Greece has various specialities in this regard. Too many write poetry, perhaps percentage more than in other countries. Greece has a tradition in music. At the moment Greece is a theatre of cultural creation, quasi spontaneous or even professional, which seems a bit like an cultural spring. This all ends up - and they've ended up - in noble poets. All this together has ended up in the work of a composer - how else do I say it? - Mikis Theodorakis, where music is linked to Greek poetry, is linked to the entire history of this country and the fates of the Left has arrived to be ecumenical poetic and musical reason for the whole of mankind. These things are within the responsibility of the Ministry. "All within the responsibility of the Ministry" of course does not mean that we will prefer the alpha or the beta composer, the alpha or the beta stream of artistic creation, but that we will simply lay the foundations - in so far as we can - so that this cultural blossom that is already beginning to become a true cultural regeneration and in this sense of a pillar for total productive reconstruction of the country. After culture is education. Culture and education are obviously inextricably tied together. It is education which allows culture to be produced and, at the same time, allows it to be enjoyed on account of cultural achievements. Education is organised by an educational system, which in our country is the great patient for at least forty years - so that I don't go much further back ever since I was studying. Everyone recognizes education as the big patient. The measures taken are always emblematic, always with a four-year horizon - at best - because every new government thinks that it should change what the previous one has done, in order to put this signal to the great, it is assumed, a symbolic thing called "change of the educational system". Why is that? I think we can identify the reason on two points that are linked to the whole ideology of neoliberalism. Both education and culture have become tools. They're not selfish. They're tools. We are studying 'the paper'. The 'paper' is what counts, not the contents of the studies. The whole course of education at least until the university - if not after - is a course towards a paper - do you have a degree, a diploma, a doctorate? - without asking about the content, the acquisition conditions and so on. So education is the tool for the degree, because that's supposed to count on the labour market. Similarly, culture, while it is obviously linked to tourism - it is one of the great comparative advantages of the country that its history and its cultural monuments - usually the cultural debate has as a lasting effect that "we want the cultural product, because it will bring tourists, because it will bring money". This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. That's not how it works. It's not that civilization will bring money. Because we cultivate culture as a result of this and as a bonus, if you like, money will come. Today the situation in education is tragic. Apart from its constant problems, it has been said from all sides that it is an ongoing major humanitarian disaster. Guys are hungry. Parents kill themselves. Schools don't have heating. Teachers are gone. So any new policy on education, on education, cannot start with dealing with this humanitarian disaster and with it and with the dissolution that has taken place at the same time because of the well-known dismissal and availability procedures which have also been imposed on schools. Faced with these problems, we have and we will have a method: Firstly, we will face the humanitarian disaster. Secondly, as far as school is concerned, we do not 'experiment' this academic year because we do not want to accumulate problems in an already dissolving situation. The third stage - just after all - is planned in public dialogue, for regulation over the long term of all the problems. In particular, in addition to the direct lifelong relationships at school, at hunger, heating, etc., school guards return to work, to a new job, because we want their new job to contribute to the establishment of the school in a cultural centre in the neighborhood by their own assistance and the new tasks that this new role will serve them. We declare that there is no change in the third grade this year as far as the introductory exams are concerned. We're removing the theme bank. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you know what the business bank is. The topic bank is a question repository, which children know in advance. So all the children's work, along with the parallel care centres, is to learn from outside about three to four thousand questions per issue, so they'll be ready for the exams. There is no greater dissolution of the education process than the theme bank. Moreover, the theme bank was not done to help education, as we start to see at the Ministry. It is a work done not for its utility but for it to be paid. It's one of these weird works that's not done because they need to, but it's because some people want to get paid or pay for these projects. The rating of the promotional examinations in the first and second grades of high school is not, for exactly the same reasons, taken into account in the introductory degree in the universities, because we want to disconnect high school from the university rather than make the 'bad' school at three years old. Because that's how high school works right now. It operates as a "bad" instruction because it is obliged to follow a detailed programme and not to enter the training process for the introductory examinations. So for children it's a "bad" instruction. They leave it to attend school. We are keeping the level of promotion, as it was a few months ago, at the average of 9.5 without getting things more involved and, as far as the teachers are concerned, we are withdrawing the cord of pseudo-assessment. Also, I don't know if you know what this is. It is a process that does not evaluate to help and strengthen teaching relationships at school. He's esteemed to punish. It must be 15% of teachers' staff under the base, so that evaluation can make sense. Such an evaluation, apparently, is abolished and in place is a real discussion about what it means to assess the educational work, assess the school’s function in relation to students - parents and parents - children, so that things can really begin to change. Experimental and standard schools. Examinations are absurd because experimental school means not a school of excellence, which is excellence under certain conditions. Because if you become excellent in just a process, you bear the burden of excellence, and you have to constantly prove your excellence, and if you fail in the competition of excellence, then you bring the mark of this failure is gone. There is no meaning of "excellence" and especially of these ages. It's tragic. But precisely because we do not want to upset this year, we are unfortunately holding the tests and this year, until July is over, because some children have entered this process, they have invested themselves and their parents will be able to get into the finest - they are supposed - schools and we do not want to put ice on the even distorting - in a sense - of this ambition. I would like to say something about standards and experimental schools, because that is a great deal of talk too. I think that there should be experimental schools for this reason: the demands in relation to education, particularly in the situation that we are living in, and especially from the point of view of the Left, are points of view. They are not contradictory, but they are not demands that can be resolved once and for all. What do I mean? One side is the democratic school. It is up to the school to be democratic, all children to follow compulsory education voluntarily and no school leak. School leak means class school, non-democratic school. There's the knot, and that's where we have to invest a lot. But in the society we live there is also the so-called symbolic capital. Some children are endowed with their homes, family, over-indulgence, with potential for more - at least that's how it looks at some young ages - by some other children. Good school, my time, it was public. One of the largest national crimes, if the relative magnificence is allowed, is that since then good schools have been private. That's tragic. This relationship must be reversed. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But in order to reverse this relationship, it cannot be done by decree, by leveling, because everyone is the same, so everyone will receive the Nobel Prize at the same time. EBRD: They are obviously returning to work with appropriate arrangements, depending on the skills to be reconstructed, the teachers who have been wrongly prosecuted for, obviously, the private IEKs having the same responsibilities. That's the way it is. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There is a question that goes on the Internet and reaches me in relation to regional and prefective training directors: who will we choose, who will we put, what will we do here, what will be done there? The answer here too is very simple. There are provisions in the legislation which means an open notice, an incompetent evaluation committee and an absolute - I repeat - an absolute political unreasonable religion. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] A.I.E. This is where I'm loaded. Mr. Fortsakis will forgive me. I'll try to be calm to say the following just. Evidently the managers are returning because, as has been demonstrated by all the studies carried out by the previous government, the existing ones are far less than the required ones. But here, too, we're going to ask them for more. We'll ask them to make a treaty so that the department's relationship with the students is more personal. This is where the great pseudo-problem of the 'eternal' comes in. It's a false problem, because of the eternity some have demolished. Since the eternity some have emigrated from the centuries, some have done completely different jobs. But we have to find out who makes sense, if they want to, to be able to return. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that can only be done on a personal basis with the help of the new kind of administrative staff we will have at universities. That's the easy one, Mr. Fortsakis. The difficult thing is this and it is a wording that I have been saying for years since evil began: the Diamantopoulou Act has been an absolute disaster for higher education. It's over and out. Absolute catastrophe, because someone went through America somewhere, something thought he understood with the institution councils and came to enforce them here without knowing why and how institution councils with a very different role work perfectly in America. It's a matter of special choice, of conversation, whatever you want. It's not the moment. It therefore fell to what was left standing on the basis of a completely systematic process of decaying everything that the Greek university had achieved since 1982, and then with the tremendous efforts of teaching staff since 1982, it had been able to achieve. They literally hung on the handkerchiefs, Milopoulos and Pelogrin, for reasons that had nothing to do with work or work at the university. Each one who said otherwise was in the logic "for everything is the fault of SYRIZA" and the source of evil at SYRIZA is the university toward the government. The government has too many universities and that means something. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Diamantopoulou Act has been presented, it has been invested with the idea that it was voted by a huge majority in Parliament, but this majority ignored the fact that all universities of all parties had systematically expressed their opposition to the law before being subjected to party discipline. Let us take this and start from the beginning, obviously, first of all, the abolition of the institutions' councils. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I do not know if you have combined the institution councils with the insurrection in Hong Kong, because the insurrection in Hong Kong took place, because China wanted to impose a qualification on which Hong Kong citizens had to vote for the respective posts. This is exactly what the institution's councils have done in order, in a long way, to be expelled as candidates for those who did not have the approval and the opinion of the government. From that point on, the institution councils are being abolished. Obviously, the law is abolished by law. We're not going to do anything at the expense of the councils right now. Immediately, the institution councils with all the provisions that go together will be changed by another law. One clarification I would like to give, which I think is necessary. Everything I have said is not about most of the members who participated in the institution councils. Most of them participated there unselfishly, for they believed that this law can change things upwards. We honour this, as we particularly honour those strangers - you said yesterday and I fully agree with you - who came here unselfishly because they thought that the councils, as set up here, were the same as the councils of America. They did not realize that this was how they joined a narrative, on a course, in a process that was confronting them with all universities. So we will apologise to them, because they were found - naïvely perhaps - where they were found and we will thank them for trying to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u173	Minister, I would like to ask you to be brief, because we have long exceeded the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u174	Excuse me, but I don't have experience and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u175	Generally, we have been into tolerance throughout the day. However, let us now make an effort to then give the floor to some Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u176	So very briefly - and I thank you for understanding, Madam President - I would like to say that after education there are religions and religions in the people's world. The Constitution requires the guarantee of religious freedom. The organized religions, however, which we all honor, because in their own way each promotes, forms a sense of sacredity shared by all men. The sanctuary is inviolable. The most important vow in Greek is "what I have is sacred", where "what" is not specified, because it states the spontaneous unreliable religion of the Greek people. Evidently and historically, Greek Orthodox religion prevailed. We fully respect her. We remain strategically in the view that the Church and the State need to be separated, but this course is, let us say, far away, difficult and must first begin to elect these relations, as in my opinion, exemplarily took place on the first day that this government took over, when the Prime Minister first went to the Archbishop and then swore on a political oath, without any problem, thus showing that steps towards the independence of the State from the Church can be taken soon. I have someone I thought it was nice to close the speech, addressing the JRC's comrades. I have two Marx's chips to explain...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u177	Say it one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u178	Shall I say it? The question is how do I, which I regard as a marxist, of course - and you all know it - can have such a general approach. Marx's chips are two. One is "the proletariat will not be released unless it frees society as a whole, so its present rivals, political and ideological." The second is, if the JRC partners allow me to call them comrades, 'the communists', says the manifesto, 'it is not a separate party. They are those who always put the interests of the whole place above the interest of the place.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u179	Minister, thank you for your location. And I wish you good success in your work, because your work has to do with the most vibrant part of our society, which is the children, who are the young, who are the students, but who are the part that concerns vital rights and has been very passionate by the multitude of strategies during the proverb for the "curtain". Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u180	Madam President, I would like to place myself on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u181	Please, Mr Mitsotakis, it is the turn of Mr. Maki Voridis from your party, but because you are asking for the floor, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u182	Madam President, I fully understand and respect the fact that you have shown great tolerance to all speakers indiscriminately. However, I would like to point out that at this rate and because Members of Parliament too, and because the ministers are too many, we will be far from exhausted by the list of Members. I would therefore ask you all to agree that, from now on, time will be respected primarily for the ministers and the Members of Parliament, so that the highest possible number of Members can be spoken, because otherwise we will meet tomorrow having made the assessment of the paradox that the ministers have spoken much longer than the ordinary Members have. So I think that, with the agreement of all of you, I urge you to keep the time for everyone without exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u183	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Mitsotakis, thank you for the observation. The first thing I would like to assure you is that on the basis of the elements of the tolerance of the Bureau, the Vice-Presidents of the House have made greater use of this, as have the heads of parties in opposition, and less the Ministers and Members of the Chambers of Deputies. And that's the right thing to do. The House, although it has a majority, cannot suppress the groups that are not majority. I note your observation. I say to you that for my part I am absolutely prepared to remain to speak with my colleagues and with the ministers, we are all going to make an effort to keep up with time, and in due course we will also rethink the issue of time limits. Come on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just need first of all to remind you that what we are discussing today is the government's programming statements. Why should I remind you? Because this debate is taking place, the truth is, under the shadow of negotiation and, if you will, under the burden of this negotiation. But Greece is a sovereign country, it has a democratically elected government, the elected government has the responsibility of presenting its programme to the Greek Parliament and the Greek Parliament, according to its views, will be placed in the face of the government's Programmatic Declarations. Whether or not the agreement is possible - we all hope - it is another debate. It is obviously related - I am not saying - to the Programmatic Declarations, but it is another debate. Why is this another conversation? Because it's about different things. I have to say first of all that there are some impressive points which I must note in these Programmatic Declarations. I am eight years in this Chamber - there are colleagues who are much more - but this is the first time I have heard a speech from the Minister of Finance, who had no financial information. I didn't hear any numbers. He didn't tell us anything about public finances. I've never seen it. It was spectacular. It was another originality of SYRIZA. Come on, let's get started. The second thing I want to say is that I must welcome some of the positions of the Minister of Finance. I'm not sure if you greet them too. For example, he talked about 70%. Well, so many years we've been killing for a 15% mist! Do not think, of course, that we agree with 100%. With no government program you don't agree to 100%. If you ask each of us if he agrees to the New Democracy government programme, he will say that he agrees with an 80% or 90% or a 75%. Let's not ask Lafazano how much he agrees with the SYRIZA program! Something less than 70 percent will come out. So the question here is this: are we killed for this 30%? The second statement I should like to welcome, ladies and gentlemen, is this the OECD toolbox? But, well, Kostis Hadjidakis sits in the background. I didn't believe my ears. I thought Hatzidakis was presenting this program. We were told by the Minister of Finance that the head of the OECD will come here to explain his programme. Let me simply inform you of the completeness of the knowledge that he has come, he has presented it, he has informed us and a portion of it has been implemented. It also has some other things that I am sure will be of interest to you, such as supermarket medicines. It's in the OECD toolbox. I assume that this is what the Minister for Finance means as a reform. It is, however, part of the reforms of this toolbox. I welcome it, but I'm not sure you're in agreement with it too. But that's what the Minister of Finance said. He also said something interesting. He said 'We are not talking about the troika, but about the three institutions'. By the way, the Troika is the representatives of the three institutions. So what will be the difference? Will the faces change? Instead of calling them "troika", will we call them "triad"? Instead of calling them 'troika', will we call 'three institutions'? That's good, though, and I'm keeping it. I still hold the Prime Minister's position positive. The balanced budgets - and the Prime Minister said good - are the expression of national sovereignty. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, have we said so from this Step so that we can collect from you at another time - let us consider it 'forgotten' - 'dogs', 'German gypsies', 'protagonists', 'protagonists', 'in the Constitution'? The balanced budgets are the expression of national sovereignty. That is right and we fully agree. That's about the end of the deal, because the questions are beginning. The first question is: What about public debt in the end? I have heard from the Prime Minister, but also from the Finance Minister, that there will be a debate. First, burdensome and shameful debt, Independent Greeks, do we have or do we not have? Second, do we have 60% or do we have one? Thirdly, this question of prolongation is not new. It's old. We have said so and we have supported it. It is the solution that we have proposed. Is that what you're going to do? There is also a second issue which concerns us, apart from any agreement on creditors. We are not interested in the issue of the agreement, but we are interested in how the country's obligations will be met. Shouldn't we at least have in the Programmatic Declarations to tell us this EUR 22 billion we have to pay this year, finally how they will be paid? Will anyone come from the financial staff to answer anything? Will you come and tell us this EUR 22 billion, how will they be paid? You will tell me what you care about. We care, because if they don't pay, there's the bankruptcy of the country. If that's a government choice, shouldn't we listen to it? It's an idea. It's not a good idea. It's the worst thing in the world. But what if this is the government's choice not to come and tell us? If that's not the choice of the government, don't tell us, even in the Programming Declarations, how he's going to pay the $22 billion. This year? Some of them are in February, but they are in early March, and so far we have no answer for that. Because the days aren't many, shouldn't they? Is it possible for the Minister of Finance to give us eleven minutes' lecture on macroeconomic and overall economic theory of what happened with the crisis, and not to tell us how he will pay the next fortnight that ends? I'm on my way. I come to the most interesting things. Repeal of ENVIRONMENT. I am fantasticly in favour of lowering taxes. I'm committed to reducing taxation because I'm right. You who are left-wing, normal...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u186	Why did you vote for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u187	I'll explain. Don't rush. Now to the easy things we've been talking about for so long!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u188	Why did you vote for first home auctions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u189	That's right! So now we're going here. So we have less than 2.6 billion. So I don't blame you, you haven't said you're gonna take it off. You've said from one point to the next. The account there is 1 billion. I'm on my way. You say abolish duty progressively. The total abolition of duty is 2.4 billion. So I don't blame you, as you say, to do it, it's around 1. So we have two billion. You have promised - Mr. Xanthos - an increase in pharmaceutical expenditure by 360 million. This is for the pharmaceutical industry. We're at 2 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u190	Did you hear me say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u191	You've said that. You have a public statement about this. Coordinate. If you don't say it, I take it back. I'll remove it if there's no increase in pharmacy expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u192	Did you hear me say it today?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u193	No, I didn't hear it today. You have said so in an election. Well, I'm coming here to this. I'm going to yours. Repeal of EUR 1 in recipes. That's 70 million. Repeal of EUR 5. These are another 60 million. We have a total of 130 million. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u194	If you do such calculations, you've fallen too far outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u195	No, don't say it like that. Mr. Curublis, listen to something. See what is written as income - because this is deducted - in the budget, not the collected one. See in the budget what is written.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u196	Which budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u197	In the budget that the State has, Mrs Fotou, the one it is called upon to implement. So, next item that comes is free feeding, roofing, health coverage. That's estimated another billion. We're at 3 billion. The thirteenth wage is 540 million. We are at 3.5 plus what is already a deficit structured, plus two months which has been deferred. You've got six billion. You can answer us. Does anyone have the courtesy to tell us anything about this? Because that is what we expected to hear from the Minister of Finance. We didn't expect to hear negotiation techniques. We did not expect to hear his good intention. We did not expect to hear about the declarations of national sovereignty. We have waited to hear: will there be a balanced budget for the Prime Minister and where will these 6 billion come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u198	The Prime Minister told them in Thessaloniki. He's done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u199	The Prime Minister said it in Thessaloniki. You didn't do it here again, though. Finally, I come to the main question. You must answer that, ladies and gentlemen. Can I say something now? I'm doing you a favor, because that's prepping! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Because - be careful now - I do not want anyone to come to you - so - difficult. We've been here. For when that time comes, when that time comes, it ends 'I want this', 'I want that', 'I want the other one'. You need to come and say in a concrete and organised way - and especially this is about economics - how you are going to go to fill these particular gaps. We did not hear a reply to the Programming Declarations either. Because listen, apart from what is the argument of realism - my colleagues have said - there are arguments of another order. Which one? There are arguments of principle. For example, if you tell me that you will abolish HNPH to put a tax on the entire property, then I will tell you that this and a dysfunctional argument of realism is, but it is also bad for what you are supposed to - and you accept - that it is a common target, which is economic development. How will you attract, as you say - says the Prime Minister - private investment, when you are actually forming an environment of absolute insecurity as to what is going to arise for the privatisation programme, which is already under way? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm really finishing up in 15 seconds. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have heard - that is for you, happy - that the Prime Minister said 'no to sell'. That is what it opposes. And I'm saying, "shopping" means a low price. Are we all right with a better price?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u200	(Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy) Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u201	You have answered 'no'! Now I hear a folding. Are we going to discuss prices or at first? Unfortunately, what has also happened in this debate, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have not responded to anything. The government's Programmatic Declarations are at best unrealistic and at worst wrong. And that is why we are decisively voting against the government's Programmatic Declarations. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. Mr. Mitsotakis, you see, I was probably right that we should not prejudge, because I would suppress your colleague from Civicism and not be right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u203	We are going to put the whole time together at the end, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u204	Seventy Members will not speak, Madam President! I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u205	Everyone will speak, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Rachel Makri has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the two and a half years of the previous parliamentary term, institutional efforts and the parliamentary struggle for national dignity, substantial economic growth and social justice have run counter to the indifference of the Samara - Venizelos government. Indifference for social justice, indifference for the unemployed. In Kozani and the wider Western Macedonian region seven out of ten young people find no work, because PASOK and New Democracy had other priorities. The outgoing government took care of the figures and of the country's sale, not least for its residents. In the country's energy heart, in Kosani Prefecture, they arranged for the burial of even toxic waste, while not sending local hospitals or anesthetists for pain medical. In a prefecture that pays for electricity generation, there were no ambulance drivers, Mr. Vorides, as your government sent them to availability. And so, young people died waiting for an ambulance. Parliament's questions remained unanswered and, in the timeliness, we heard promises that were never implemented. The neoliberal neck targeted workers, including PPC workers. Experience was replaced by two months and eight months' contracts of people who, as soon as they learned the basics, were fired to be forced to run for the political fathers of the New Democracy and PASOK, to put them back in a two-month or an eight-month period. As if this were not enough, PPC contractors and subcontractors were exposed to unacceptable working conditions, without protective uniforms and equipment and without paying a penny. They were workers who lost their lives on mining belts, welding vehicles, mining landslides, people who were disabled. And all this because? To be subsidised by the private friend of the policies of old-fashioned society. Fortunately, on January 25, the wind of hope brought about the overthrow. The government of all Greeks changes a page in the errors of the rulings, which the citizens were called upon to pay. The dream of a society with national dignity, with people's sovereignty, with social justice, without humanitarian crisis phenomena will no longer be a dream. Especially for the Kosani Prefecture, I share the vision of balanced development and fair social coexistence with all my fellow citizens who believe that the centre of politics should be man. The vision that includes work without medieval terms, enslavement to the private master. Equally rewarded for equal work was announced by the Prime Minister of all Greeks. It is high time that mines and MS are served with permanent workers who will also have technical equipment and training necessary so that there are no accidents. It is time for justice to be attributed to the local society that pays a heavy sanitary price by hiring workers who comply with the requirements of the declared posts. It is high time that the two major hospitals in the prefecture of "Mamaceio" and "Bodsaceo" offer integrated health services for citizens. Doctors who want to serve them are there. There was no political will, because you were given priority by the contractors. Now, every scoundrel's going to go to his counter. It is not possible for residents to be relocated from settlements to be called upon to pay real estate fees for properties that have been expropriated by PPC and are being hampered both by the appointed management of the company and by the relevant real estate agency. The solution to this problem must be immediate and permanent. It cannot be fired in Ptolemais because special surveillance officers who had prevented such disasters in the past have been fired or transferred due to cutbacks. For those who do not know, the fire at this steam station destroyed hundreds of millions of euros equipment. So the time has come for the Greek state not to be subject to the demands of oligarchs. The direct awards of the Bey Lignite mine and the modalities of the lignite mines held by PPC must be re-examined in the light of the public interest and cancelled if they do so. In the same context, the unit 'Ptolemais 5' must also be completed in order to ensure that the local society is also able to escape from the nightmare of unemployment which they had condemned. The State's regulatory competence cannot be exhausted to degradation, but to build structures at the side of the citizen. The sugar beet producers of the county are still waiting for the payment of their labors from the Greek Sugar Industry you deceived and targeted. The seriousness and stability of fiscal policy and the focus on small and medium-sized enterprises are a pillar of real growth. Free professionals cannot be treated as tax-raisers from the outset and should pay the burdens they have on them rather than require a price for services they did not receive. In addition, top products for Greek exports, such as peaches, can take care of them. Alternative export routes with infrastructure utilization not used and care for action at foreign policy level for products that give a valuable currency in the country may convert the State from brake to a lever for economic development. Justice should also exist in the administrative boundaries of the municipalities without meaningless combinations of areas that do not have uniform problems and needs. When the central authority carries out an administrative gatherings of responsibilities without the opinion of local communities, the only result produced is failure, as in the case of Velvet. For this reason, the ‘Kalikratis’ project should be reviewed in terms of its effectiveness and efficiency. On the same basis, the military structures of the country must be reviewed. Kozanis and the whole of northern Greece need the First Army Corps that ensures national integrity, which is a priority, according to the Prime Minister, of all Greeks. Ensuring this also requires the provision of good political education for young people and continuing training for all. With education and real development, great scientists will come back to our homeland and Greece will stop sending its children abroad because there are no jobs. Good education teaches that political realism is not unnecessarily irresponsible, but the claim of national interests. Your negotiation led Europeans to hit you in the head with newspapers. The negotiation of the government of all Greeks regained national pride in institutionally sound and economically sound ways. So do not resort to two-collapsible arguments to justify the assignment of national sovereignty. Article 28 of the Constitution, Mr Mitsotakis, refers to supranational organisations and not to acts of legislative content which offend the Greek Parliament. After all, the Constitution was remembered by the government of the parties who said they were legislating outside the Constitution and implementing agreements that were cut and stitched to the interests of creditors, who were competing with the troika in taking painful, useless measures against the people, those who signed scandalous, unequal and heterogeneous agreements, which you signed for only Germany, such as PPC, who if you were still in power, would fortunately give it to the state German RWE that it would stop. The agreements you are signatories to, a little reminder of the Animal Farm, where all animals are supposed to be equal but some are more equal than others. Ladies and gentlemen, I am giving my vote of confidence to the government, whose manipulations are in line with more than 75% of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. Mr. Spyros Lykoudis from the party The Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, like all of us, have followed the Prime Minister with caution in the government's programming statements. Like all the programming statements, they describe the desired framework of government action, and in a large part of them they open it up in a long time, if we accept, of course, that the left-wing and right-wing association set up by the current government structure will endure the test of seismic reality. We have awaited the New Government's Programmatic Declarations in a doomed country on the eve of the most critical negotiations of the time of the crisis and, in my opinion, we have heard a general list of declarations and guidelines that still have a strong perfume of the election period. Of course, the account comes when all of this is reflected in concrete legislative proposals and on these specific legislative proposals, and we in Parliament will always be in the social interest, the immediate and effective protection of the weak, the small and medium-sized sections, the unemployed from the point of view of the radical reforms that the country needs, but also the healthy economic development that will only ensure our future. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be placed on our own initiative and on what has been forgotten in the Programmatic Declarations. Or haven't they forgotten? She said a lot of them this morning, Mrs. Liberaki. I won't repeat it so I won't tire you. I'll stick to just one. I have not heard anything from you either about the change of today's polluting electoral system, about the outrageous bonus of the fifty seats, about the Left's historic demand for a simple analogue. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, will take place. You won't avoid her. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest mistake of the rough policy is that it does not usually recognize its mistakes. That's why it stones everyone. That's why clipping politics leads to dead ends building enemies and strawmen, idols and communication theatres. He's trying to cover up instead of enlightening. He seeks to flatter himself instead of pediatrics. He plays with words to save pretexts rather than bend to solving problems. Ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need to get out of this trap. And let's all get away. And when I say, I mean all, government and democratic opposition parties, but above all the government that has produced over-emphasis and abundant - in my opinion - illusions. The Prime Minister was obliged yesterday to abandon his election rhetoric and to adapt with explicit commitment to the European course of our country. He didn't. Citizens voted for a change of course but within the euro. They are entitled to know whether the austerity in which the Prime Minister has rightly been mentioned, fought with the euro or with the drachma. Because it took just a few days to break down the myth that the memorials brought the judgment and not the judgment of the memorials, however cruel and unjust, to the detriment of the impossible ones. It took just a few days to realize that the debt is not simply eradicated because we want it, that the abolition of our commitments - at least - is not possible, that the reason for the institutional partners can be dealt with and changed, but cannot be abolished, no matter what euphemisms we use, that the Thessaloniki programme is not directly applicable and that its cost is on the air, that the budgetary balance cannot be ignored, that the famous alternative was non-existent, otherwise we are now asking for time to draw up it. The crisis was to a large extent, ladies and gentlemen, and ours too. If we recognize it at least at the last hour, we will lead to a better framework to discuss and develop our future. Otherwise, we will perpetuate our problem. I am sure not everyone, but a lot of people, are still pretending that you are not listening to the crocodile. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not honestly believe that there are people in this Chamber or in the whole country who wish clearly or secretly for our country to fail. Because any collapse this time, not from an accident, but from acts or omissions of the government, will be a complete collapse at all levels and not only will it concern the government, it will all concern us. Let us act with determination, but also with certainty. I count my words one by one carefully and responsibly. This is not the time for sterile political controversy that always cost expensive. Let us counter-population realize the criticality of moments and you as government stop denouncing and incriminating those who do not agree with you. It's the worst sample of total ideology and mentality. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] Look for consents to realistic actions and prospects to avoid harming the country. Under no circumstances should we find ourselves because of prejudices, beliefs, or inexcusable and reckless demonstration of ignorance in a situation where defeat can occur, whether our desires are fulfilled or not. And I refuse to make the paralytic thought that there may be no ignorance of danger but ignorance of danger. You realize what I mean, knowing the danger and saying, "It's okay, I'm proud to go to the conflict and let's get whatever it is." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you, Madam President, to stop the bell a little, as was the case with the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Lykoudis, it's self-evident. Others were asking me to leave it to know that time was up. You have the self-evident tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u210	So let us get away from the vulnerability of the perpetrator and seek with consensus and stability the necessary balance between the demands of our society, which are justified, is many and fair, and our international obligations and commitments. There's no other way. Those who have understood it in the government - I think there are enough of them. Samples of this perception of the problems were the speech of the Minister of Finance - let them convince the others who have not yet seen it - to become a new beginning without a thousand anti-monotics, without the metaphysics of national mediation and destructive populism. Europe under the pressure of problems is beginning to change and will change further. Let us abandon trade and ambiguity, frontal conflicts and our national blindness, and help to strengthen the European democratic current without throwing water into the mill of anti-Europeanism, while remaining firmly within the European family and its hard core, the Eurozone, with our own creative contribution, with the firm claim of our rights, but also with realism of fulfilling our obligations. The consequences of our claim are the immediate agreement to avoid the murderous gap after February, the austerity attack with small surpluses, the settlement of debt and the reduction of interest. The road, ladies and gentlemen, is a long one. We know that. We also know your own difficulties as government. The road is rough and difficult. But let us walk him without pretension, but with wisdom and unity. We as a parliamentary group will do our duty closely. You should know that. In no case, however, will we suffer the flag of severe criticism, however unpleasant it may be, to those who have been self-sufficient in their own delusion and destructive populism. Under no circumstances will we abandon our struggle for the specific radical reforms that the country needs to escape its Balkan provincialism, its narcissistic umbrella and its fantasy to build with new materials and not with the old materials of bankruptcy a modern and European one. This Greece deserves us. We are also fighting for this Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr. George Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor. Then will the Deputy Minister of State speak, Mr. Turnence Quick. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the coup d'état of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks uses thoughtful misleading practice and cultivates a climate of euphoria. The coup d'état speaks of pride, sovereignty, and at the same time lands, gives vows of faith to the real opponent of our people: monopolies, the European Union, NATO, the capitalist exploitation system. We tell our people to measure this well and to reflect on his experience that within these solid stones there is no philosophical politics, popular sovereignty and social justice. There is no equivalence in international relations, because what it judges is the economic and military power of each country. The coup d'état speaks of a multi-dimensional foreign policy, but its trunk is the dangerous decisions of the European Union and NATO, relations with the United States. Any openings are made - for example, to Russia, China - their own monopolies do not change the basic, qualitative factor that stresses that at the heart of internal and external government policy are the interests of major economic groups, the geostrategic upgrading of their role with heavy consequences and new adventures for our people. The Minister of National Defence at the recent meeting with NATO Secretary-General stressed that the government will participate in all NATO's joint military actions which are a repressive mechanism against the peoples, with numerous interventions and wars. At last year's summit in Wales NATO has strengthened aggressive decisions on the pretexts to tackle terrorism, energy security, the treatment of chessists created and supported by the United States and its allies for the needs of interventions in the Middle East, North Africa. The government has joined these positions. This has also been demonstrated by current positions. The European Union's security and defence policy is moving in the same direction. The claim that coexistence will change the landscape - supposedly - within the twilight alliances has nothing to do with reality. This has recently been demonstrated by the attitude of the Government and the Foreign Minister at the special session of the European Union for Ukraine. Initially, lionisations on procedural issues, but in practice a unanimous decision to extend the sanctions imposed by the European Union, in the context of competition with Russia. But that's not all. The unanimous decision attempts to present the European Union as innocent pigeon, and is responsible together with the United States for the intervention in Ukraine. It continues to fire oil, with negative consequences for the peoples, against our people, against farmers in our country. Turkey and Greece have been NATO members, allies for decades. This, however, did not prevent Turkish aggression and the competition of urban classes in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean for the control of hydrocarbons. Turkish challenges continue. The Greek Economic Area and the continental shelf are questioned. The naval decisions promote the partition and haircut of the Aegean. Cyprus is a member of the European Union, but this did not lead to a fair solution to the Cyprus problem. The interventions of the United States and of the European Union aim to impose a diplomatic solution, such as the Annan plan in 2004. The Government is talking about a fair solution to the Cyprus question, but it goes beyond the position of two component states which are the basis of the negotiations in Cyprus, a position that corresponds to a confederative solution and leads to the legalisation of the tens of the Turkish occupation. The Palestinian time is up. Sympathy is left behind, but the government continues its course of upgrading relations between Greece and Israel to a political, economic and military level. Is the government's references to international law, to UN decisions, to the so-called 'European security architecture'? It is comforting to the sick, because International Law, after overthrowing socialism, is at the service of the imperialist plans supported by the UN, as demonstrated by the military operations of recent years. The coup d'état presents Greece as a force of stability, but the ports do not exist in the triumph of intra-imperialist competitions to control the rich production sources and markets that mark the situation throughout the region, in the Eastern Mediterranean, in the Middle East, in the Caspian Sea, in Ukraine, in the Gulf, in the Balkans and form the ground for generalised imperialist wars. We are returning to pride and popular sovereignty, and we raise the following question, which you have been silent about, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the Programmatic Declarations and in the positions of the Ministers. In Greece there are a number of Euro-Atlantic bases involving our country in wars and interventions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a minute, Madam President. What will SYRIZA-ANEL co-government do? Will the Souda base be closed, which plays a decisive role in all the imperialist wars in the region, which is really a guise against the people? Will the naval headquarters be closed in Thessaloniki? What's he gonna do with the Earth Battle Formation in Kilkis? What about the advanced operational base in the Coast? What will it do with the European Union Operations Headquarters in Larissa, who has performed an effective role in the imperialist operation even in the Central African Republic? What will it do with Greek warships on Eurolantic missions in the Mediterranean, Somalia? What will it do with the naval training programs that have recently cost two Greek pilots life? The Communist Party of Greece requires that the Euro-Alantic bases be closed, that Greek military forces return immediately from abroad. The JRC continues to fight for the release of imperialist militia, with the people at the wheel of power, with mutually advantageous relations with other countries and peoples. Our party is developing its internationalist action on the side of the Palestinian, Cypriot people and other peoples. It opposes imperialist wars and contributes to the struggle to overthrow capitalist barbarism, i.e. to eliminate the causes that cause them. Thank you. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Marino.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u214	Madam President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Symphony, I normally do that by the parliamentary representative, but please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u216	I want to ask something. First of all, we need to be informed by what time the procedure will last. Secondly, we need to know how many ministers are still going to talk. And, thirdly, if we go at these rates, they won't even speak 50 colleagues. Something must be done, but not at the expense of Members' time. In fact, tolerance is a good thing - and I would be pleased if I were a speaker so far, to have had your tolerance - but something has to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u217	You're going to have it anyway, Mr. Armacler. I'll let you know. As I see that the parliamentary representatives of many groups are absent, I would ask that they be present at 23.30 p.m. to see how we proceed with the procedure. The Bureau intends to proceed this evening at least by 1 p.m. or by 2 p.m. - since, of course, colleagues wish to speak - and to start this morning at 9 p.m. I will inform you about 23.30' on what was the previous ones and you will see that today we have met more hours and have spoken more Members than ever before for twenty-two years. So you realize what context the proceedings have been in the past. I would now ask Mr Quick to take the floor. Mr. Quick, as a State Secretary to the Prime Minister you're entitled to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u218	Good. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the struggle that we have given to the Greeks, which we must give to them homogenously, I want - you know - with this spongiformity that discerns me returning a little time back to all these last few months and remember how many times I have had to defend - in a position of defense - the Independent Greeks against all those who wanted to show us as "urine" of SYRIZA. That's what bothered me. It bothered me. I really thought that we were giving an antimonetary struggle - and we were giving it with complete consistency, being smacked by the media, because we did not have contractors on our side to have us with endless hours of television broadcasts or newspaper pages - taking out the picture of consistency, with principles, with values that we have held until the last minute at any cost. After all, my posts are well known and archived on TV channels or newspapers, when I was kept asking "what are you going to do with SYRIZA?". It was the little machine - you know - that started from the undergrounds of Maximos, thinking that with this they could "saw" us a part of the voters that was following us. Bearing in mind that in any case - because I learned from my parents and also from my political mentors, one of them was Constantine Karamanlis - I am not a stereophobic. Constantine Karamanlis taught me not to be a stereophobic. He taught me not to be - I repeat - stereophobic. He taught me to work with anyone I could work with, to get my country to go politically or to get my work ahead in the areas I worked on. And it is time that the Independent Greeks proved in practice on Monday, January 26, 2015 that we, the Independent Greeks, were one of the two protagonists, were the ones who participated in the initiative to immediately give the solution to the formation of a government of national and social salvation, in response to the very fresh verdict of the Greek people - who wanted what? - who wanted to end his subjection to memorials, an end to misery, unemployment, recession, the locks, overtaxation, the migration of our children, the suicides, the serious democratic deficit, even within here in the Greek Parliament, which had become a House of Troika. Of course, when the meeting of our two political leaders ended on that day, it was now clear that the Independent Greeks would keep our red lines on all the issues we committed in the election period. Personally - and I must put this to the vote - I believe that we are at a time when the Greek citizens want to see the composition in this House rather than decomposition, they want to see joint efforts and actions to counter the risk of a blackmailed economic conqueror and not a systematic terroristism for the same political benefit and want to see politicians from opposing groups working together, finding what they are united and not seeing political or political forces who want to divide, even throwing water into the mill of foreign forces. Ladies and gentlemen, we are really at a border point where I have had the greatest honour - and I mean it - to me the carameloid, but the non-stereophobic one and I have been the choice of the Prime Minister of the country, Alexis Tsipras, to serve this government from the position of the State Secretary of State and to be historically the first of another party that is mentioned and cooperates within the Maximus Mansion. And that for me is a great honor. And I will serve this perfectly consistently and indeed have the Minister of State Alekos Flamouraris, with whom I am bound by thirty-five years of personal friendship. I was assigned with Alekos Flamouraris and within the ministerial hierarchy of course to serve the coordination of the government work and, at the same time, the Independent Greeks and the coordination of the government activities of the two partners who took over the governance of a country outside of memoranda, which will find again - do not fool ourselves! - the national dignity and stature which historically must have within a Europe of peoples, nations, solidarity, equivalence, equality within the Eurozone, because we believe deeply in the idea of Europe. The Ministry of State for the Coordination of Government's Work has already begun to gain the characteristics of its title, because so far I have to tell you that it has been a General Secretariat for Coordination of Troika Memorandum Reich's wishes and commands. I find out every day from inside. We will be the heart of the government which will monitor compliance with the legislative commitments and new initiatives of this government, the coordination of the ministries - when we are talking about legislation involving more than one ministries - and which will only be referred to by the Ministerial Council or the Prime Minister himself. This is our job in this ministry. No relaxation, no ministerial forerunner, of course, all with their self-restraint, but all in full cooperation with each other, when this requires legislative work, such as for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the backbone of the Greek economy and where many ministries are involved. This is where I have to make it clear what is not going to happen again. Firstly, it is not the Directorate-General for Coordination, which has evolved into a Ministry of State for the Coordination of Government Work, to continue to become a meat machine and a source of dismantling the structure of the public administration. No one has ever said that the Greek state did not need a brave rationalisation. Other streamlining, however, even in conflict with trade union attitudes and other acceptance of orders, which did not only aim to link the cost of operating the state, but also to source of revenues that would not benefit the Greek citizen, but to lenders and even lenders with wrong recipes, as they themselves had confessed. On how the Greek state should operate it gave a clear signal from this one Step yesterday, the Prime Minister of Alexis Tsipras. Secondly - and listen carefully - I will not be in front of the unpleasant - and it is a very lenient expression - I am surprised to discover that, next to me, the Office of the Greek State Secretary of State had a meeting with heads of the Ministry, the Greek Ministry, a representative of the Reichenbach Group, without knowing anything. I didn't care if he was German, if he was French. I was concerned that he was a foreigner who had entered a Greek ministry and ran a meeting. I was concerned that he came to demand what I will mention as a third case, which will also not happen again in the form that is being done today. What's the third case? On the pretext of the faster, they said, assigning studies to the extremism of the Greek public administration, the famous Task Force of Reichenbach had demanded and succeeded in signing an annual contract of the Greek state with Task Force, i.e. the European Union, to assign a large number of studies to foreign governments, which in turn gave the projects to their own companies, while their respective study companies downloaded rolls in Greece, which were unemployed, which they knew were making studies abroad. So at that time this 'part' was done with the studies taken by the Task Force team to give them - I repeat - to foreign governments in their own children. And I'm not hiding you that in here we're discovering over-cost programs. That won't get away from my attention and keep it going. I want to be clear and unequivocal: technical assistance, even if we were the world's most perfect state, we would like it and we would like it. One cannot reject technical assistance when one really needs it. In some areas we may need it. But it is certain that Greece, with its bright minds, can also export technical assistance. Go to Evros. You will see a Greek company that builds systems that they use for the exploration of Space. And can I tell you something? I feel proud that in my family my mother’s brother, Paul Lykoudi the Kefalonite, was one of those who worked with NASA. As we offer, of course we will be asking. Like, for example, we consider the programme offered to us for free by the European Union, through the Reichenbach Group, the CIRCABC, which is an advanced system of interministerial cooperation, and which will in time be further upgraded again with European Union money, so that the Ministries, which are the Ministry of State for the Coordination of the Governmental Work, can make all these complex legislations, which are involved in many ministries. However, the free technical assistance and another - I repeat - that - for me - small 'part' of overshooted projects, studies, studies and studies, for which I do not hide from you that the states were fighting for what this project will first take to give it to their own children. As a new government, we will insist on technical assistance, but on the permanent operation of the Technical Assistance Directorate in Brussels, which will serve each European country, which will want something to do. This programme of studies for its own children, which is 15 million - is not well-intentioned - is being revised. In fact, as far as we are concerned, we have some thoughts. How studies, which can be given to Greek companies, Greek bright minds, will also be combined with a bonus on their side, a moleculosis - I would say - of new recruitments. You get a 500,000 project, you'll get two more employees while you're doing this job, so we can hit unemployment as well. It's an idea of Alekos Flabouraris. Ladies and gentlemen, the General Secretariat for the Coordination of Government Work, headed by Minister Aleko Flamouraris, both guarantee that it will be one of the most important sources or references to Greece's new course in the hands of a government that SYRIZA locked up with the Independent Greeks. Needless to say, my office will be open to every Greek citizen, but also to every body that wants to put an idea in which we can then be in the Ministries, because this coordinating role also goes to us. Let me close - and thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President - with one question. When I went up to the sixth floor of the Ministry, which mainly houses the Administrative Reformation, they gave me the office that was the financial advisor of the former Prime Minister, Professor Moumuras. I was amazed to find that his office was so placed inside that he had a back window. That doesn't tell you anything. I just want to tell you that the window is an entire castle of a living Acropolis and a Parthenon ahead. I just turned the office so every day when I work to see the Parthenon. I do not understand how people who come from all over the planet to see the Parthenon here in Greece we turn their backs to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u219	Mine was shot anyway. I saw him!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Quick. The SYRIZA MEP Vassilis Kyritakis, whom I have omitted, is next to the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nikos Hountis, who has been waiting for too many hours patiently, while I have announced him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, last night we heard Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras presenting to the Greek Parliament the programming commitments of the Government of Social Rescue to the Greek people, equal to the election commitments. Because for us it is a matter of honour and responsibility to speak the same language to the people, but also to the European partners, both from the outset and from the outset. It is a matter of honor and responsibility to speak the same language, both within the country and abroad. That was made clear yesterday by the Prime Minister. Our aim is a commonly accepted solution to the sustainability of the debt without memoranda of austerity and extermination of the people on the altar of serving the interests of lenders. Our aim is to upgrade our participation in the European Union with parity and mutual respect and not in terms of colonial terms. So we're not blackmailing anyone, but we're not blackmailing. With their first steps, the Prime Minister and the government immediately succeeded in achieving the SYRIZA's main election slogan. The hope therefore came to the heart of millions of citizens. The smile reappeared in millions of people wounded and humiliated by the barbarity of the memorials. The mind and morality have been bolded. Essential optimism is already being eradicated into the consciousness of the people. The above on their own is a major qualitative difference compared with the recent past. They are the prerequisites for the complete and diverse support that this government needs in order to achieve in its work. This support is already reflected in the generalised popular acceptance and confidence enjoyed by the government. It was even captured by the gathering of thousands of people on February 5 in the Constitution. We know very well that the hardships are ahead of us. Our aim is to act, to give concrete content and form to all three concepts of our three-tier term: dignity, justice, democracy. I believe, like the overwhelming majority of the people, that the Programmatic Declarations announced yesterday by the Prime Minister are moving precisely towards the achievement of this objective. Unfortunately, it seems that some in here do not yet realize that much has changed. We heard here tonight the same thing we heard and before Christmas, that the previous government was supposed to bring about the end of the memoranda. May I remind you, Members of the Police Department, today that in the last draft law of the previous Parliament on 21 December you voted to ratify an act of legislative content for the extension of the loan contract, which would bring new burdensome measures to the detriment of the Greek people? Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt the area of social life that has been raised more than four-and-a-half years of monumental policy, contributing to the blow of the dignity of the Greek people is the health sector. I think it is appropriate here to make a brief outline reference to the current state of health. Memorandums as a consequence of the neoliberal policies of the previous decades have hit the public health and public health system severely. Its main features are the high sub-funding of over 40% of public expenditure only in the years of the memorandum, the dramatic understood, the dismantling of public structures with closure of hospitals, clinics, the shrinking of primary health care in the unacceptable PES, the huge evasion of public funds to the large private health sector that would accelerate the creation of “ESAN S.A.”, the great lack of medicines and essential consumables that force patients to put a deep hand in the pocket for elementary medicines even for materials that are needed by public hospitals, impoverished conditions and employment relationships of health care, but more importantly the health ‘apartheid’, with the exclusion of millions of people from access to health. The consequences for public health are tragic according to the annual reports of Greek and international organisations and scientific studies. Increased morbidity and mortality characterised by increasing suicide, perinatal mortality, the epidemic recurring infectious diseases that have disappeared in recent decades from the country, such as malaria, epidemics of the Western Nile virus, HIV. A dramatic reduction in vaccination coverage for children and adults with visible public health risks. This is unfortunately the situation that the new government receives in the field of health. So our first concern and also our debt to this people is to start to face up to the health crisis, to health poverty, to create a net of relief and protection for the most vulnerable and weak, and then day after day, month after month, to build a public health system that will provide modern quality free health services to every resident in this country. I am sure that the measures immediately and in the long term announced by the Deputy Minister for Health will heal the wounds opened by the memorandum policies, but will also pave the way for the achievement of our strategic health objective. The central - I would say immediately - our aim is to complete the 'apartheid' health of millions of excluded uninsured and insured from access to the health system, to ensure that everyone has access, regardless of their insurance situation and ability. Key priorities include targeted staffing of health-care structures, ensuring basic, basic materials and medicines. But the creation of an integrated primary health care system, which, in its integrated form, will cover all the inhabitants of the country in a uniform way, which will be its central position to prevent, treat and promote health. Because we often accept the question of the financial capacity to support such a public system, we respond that the necessary resources for health must be increased and reallocated and saved. I will not go into the increase and redistribution here, which is also a matter of the government's overall economic policy. However, it is certain that resources can be saved in many ways rather than repressive, punishing and carved, as has been the case so far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Madam President. Critical condition for savings is the public nature of health structures and support functions, which have been delivered in recent years to contractors' interests, since it has been shown that at all levels, and in primary health care, the public sector is economically much more efficient than private business. Also, the shift in prevention, education and health promotion saves considerable amounts currently heading in other directions. Only one of many examples is the exclusive breast-feeding of infants for six months can, according to studies, save up to EUR 300 million per year in the Greek state. Finally, addressing the consumer model in health, which leads to provoking demand, remula, over-indulgation of materials and medicines, examinations and services, can save significant amounts. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few words about my constituency, Flynn. In addition to addressing the humanitarian crisis and the necessary support and upgrading of health and education structures, necessary priorities are to ensure the public character of ‘LARCO’, to support its modernisation, measures to strengthen agricultural production, livestock and fisheries, to exploit to the benefit of the public interest of the thermal sources currently located in the TSE, on conditions of collaborative economy, the completion of transport networks, road and rail, by reviewing concessions for the relief and gradual discharge of citizens from the weight of tolls, the counter-population shielding of the Speriod, the protection of the environment. I welcome the announcement by the Minister of Justice tonight of the abolition of the 'Type C' prisons we have in Domokos and of the coverage of prisons with health personnel. To close, ladies and gentlemen, from this step forward, in the last two and a half years I have also referred to the catalytic role of the people in the political developments of the country in the years of the memorandum, a role which has led to the fall of three Memorandum governments and the emergence of today's Government of social salvation. Every time our words were treated with ironic slumps on the part of the then-collapsing parties. So we are telling you that he himself proudly democratic people will put his seal on developments today with the mass participation of the day after Wednesday at the rally all over the country, government support rallys in the great struggle he gives for the country's discharge of the debt, surveillance, production reconstruction, and the promotion of the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u223	Madam President, can we agree on the procedural matters?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u224	Immediately after Mr. Hoodis, Mr. Mitsotakis. That's why I invited you all to be here to get in touch. Mr Huntis, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, the exhaustive monitoring of the work, which is my obligation and obligation of the entire government, has made me wiser in the other directions, so I am changing the order of what I have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, our government, with the right to the election result, with the need to get a clear mandate to carry out our programme, which is, in principle, a humanitarian crisis programme, a negotiation on debt, economic and institutional reforms to bring the country into a new phase, seems to be very important, not to be understood by the Greek people - it has been understood - but to be understood by our political opponents, as I have today documented their responses to this request, the request made by the Greek people and I too, that there is a need for broader support to go further in order to go ahead with this programme. When we have no questions to answer Mr Voridis who did not understand what the elections were and where the conflicts took place, we hear the following three things: First, from the PASOK and the New Democracy "The Greek people have been killed", "they have become sacrifices", "we have arrived before the end", "they will be lost with what you say." The euphemism has to do with his work, if anyone can make euphemism, that is, all this social catastrophe that has been done for memorial years to call it 'loves'. Second, what is the styling of the concept? Who asked if he wanted these sacrifices? And in any case, the answer here is clear from the Greek: if anything, I do not want to make such sacrifices! And it is an answer, because what was being prepared for a different election result was that the sacrifices should continue, I am not analyzing them any more. The proposals are well known, the continuation of the programmes. The second thing we are hearing is that we had solidarity here, we had a rescue programme, we were helped by our partners, and we are not ungrateful, we do not recognise it, and we are asking for everything, we are asking for a renouncement of the responsibilities and obligations that this aid has created us. Here we need to make it clear - and I say it not only for historical reasons or for reasons of confrontation in the context of the parliamentary legitimate dialogue, but in order to make an experience - if, dear friends, you consider or consider that what has happened, the entry of our country into memoranda, these programmes, these loan contracts were solidarity, they were for the rescue of the country and, therefore, anyone who disputes them or wants something else, has gone in another direction, you have made a very big mistake. You are giving arguments to those who were supposed to save us when they themselves confessed that these memoranda and programmes, the loan contracts, were made to save the German and French banks - they have confessed - and we are now coming to give them such arguments. And that is not just a question of dealing with issues. It shows how we negotiate, in any case, within general solidarity programmes. And the third, sounds, heard in the pre-election period, some political forces tried to form and political identity, "We", he says, "we are okay, but we are guardians, if you give us the powers, that SYRIZA will not undermine the European perspective of the country". In lower tone, what we are facing now from contacts, etc., says: Good topics, but if Merkel does not say yes, when will you conclude a deal with Merkel? So please tell me, do you realize that the European perspective of the place is constantly saying 'yes' - as you have shaped it - in what Mrs Merkel wants and many of what she probably does not want, by making sure that if Germany says so, if she did not say so, it did not happen? If that is how you understand the European perspective of a country of equal value within the European Union, we spoiled them and, therefore, what you can do is, since Mrs Merkel does not accept it, since we say so, is the well-known question 'and if they say no to you', then why are we doing elections, then why are we tortured? Let us accept it, let us accept that we are in another situation and therefore there is no reason to spoil our hearts. But come on, where the Greek people have answered that! He said that he does not accept submissiveness and that he accepts - and that is the European perspective - that the Greek Government should claim his rights as an equal member of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as negotiation is concerned, we have said from the outset that this case cannot be advanced and that this debt cannot be repaid. We want another approach to this issue. There have been a lot of reactions. Some have said that this policy, these commitments, this election mandate that they gave us, they will create catastrophes, they will destroy Europe, they will ruin everything. In recent years - it has been heard today in another version - they say 'what you are doing, namely, that you are negotiating, will take us to unpainted waters or asymmetrical consequences'. So, ladies and gentlemen, are the waters in one or another version of the negotiations and the implementation of the mandate of the Greek people by our Government? Here let me make two historic footnotes. In December 2012, the European Union from the Nobel Commission takes Nobel Peace Prize as an institution. The President of the Nobel Peace Committee, among other controversy, reminds me: 'And study, because we know what happened in the inter-war period, when people and workers paid for a financial crisis that was not their fault'. This experience must be studied and where it has led. What did he say? Consider the experience of the Middle War, where insulting and destructive conditions against defeat in World War I Germany led to unemployment and deflation in World War II. The second footnote is London, 1952-1953. Germany is defeated with large debts and corrections that it had to repay. At that time, twenty-one countries - including our country - decided to face the loser and his obligations. "They cut off" the debt, set a development clause for repayment, gave a grace period and gave development aid. So things went different. At this point, the invoicing of this event and the invoking of our own country and then the destroyed country give us the additional right and the additional obligation, at last, the Greek government to claim the repayment of the German forced debt and compensation for the damages brought to our country by the Nazi occupation. However, I shall refer to what they say 'but as far as you are concerned, our country has commitments and obligations'. We are not ignoring European reality. We know that a country from its participation in the European Union and from its participation in the Eurozone has obligations and commitments. For many of these commitments and commitments, we had disagreed. We don't agree. We had struggled not to become institutional functions of the European Union and the Eurozone. We will continue to fight to change this. We will continue to fight for the democratic transformation of Europe, because with these obligations and with these commitments, neoliberalism and democracy of the few and the experts in the face of prosperity, development and equal treatment of the peoples have been promoted. But that's not what this is all about. These are moratorium-type commitments, which we are told we do not respect. We respond to this: What article in the Treaties and the obligations says that a country must give EUR 8 billion per year or 4.5% of GDP with unprecedented surpluses to go to a debt that is not repaid at all? Who says that a debt that has reached these unthinkable heights with this Memorandum policy can be repaid without making the destruction that has occurred with the continuous degradation? No one claims that. Since no one claims this, then, to see whether these commitments - supposedly - serve this policy are European commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, no article in the Treaties says that it is possible for the European Central Bank and the Commission to impose or take part in political and economic extortion programmes in a country - a member who will dictate to where wages go, where pensions go, where social policy is going. They have no right to ask us. No one has the right in this respect, because there are rules that make us feel that tax evasion must be struck - the government has understood it - that there must be a hit on the complexion and corruption. And who's gonna shake your finger? Not that we're uninfected by these things. Switching your fingers on countries that are whatever rock of interlocutory and corruption and if you lift up, you see businesses of their own from below, countries that have not signed international agreements that are required to coordinate fraud and corruption. And what are the "commitments" that they say? A colleague spoke and said: 'Community law cannot with privatizations'. Why selective treatment of Community law? Why is PPC privatization and so on, and does not apply to German, French and corresponding public undertakings? Therefore, 'yes' to commitments and obligations, within these frameworks, we undertake to resolve the problem - and this is what the Greek Government seeks - but not 'no' to extra-institutional and selective interpretations of the rules that confirm for those who are dictating the rules that we supposedly want to violate in the European Union - it is also a result of the prior perception that Germany wants or does not want to do so - there is only one rule, namely, that the rules are not applicable, that the law of the stronger applies. So, obviously, you cannot negotiate and obviously you are not equal to the demand that our people demand, so we want to make it proud, so we have voted for it, that it feels like an equal member of the European Union with the rights and obligations it has and not selectively to deal with, because we did not correct our voice and our demand. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as I do not have time to do, I will only refer to the debt from what Mr Venizelos has said. The responsibility of the Memorandum forces in our country is not that they voted and accepted the memoranda and became a long story. It is - as I have experienced in the European Parliament - that they have rushed to take and voted in favour of all those measures allegedly addressing the crisis, such as economic governance, Six-pack, two-pack, the Financial Pact, the way the financial mechanisms were built. And they come now and say 'no' to the things they have voted on', which are marginal in the circumstances, so they have made a so-called revision of the treaties to cover them in Article 136. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing again and again.]] Finally, in order not to eat you more time, they were discussing as an alternative to go through the memorandum to go to the credit line with enhanced conditions. Yes, sir! That was a conversation. Where does this debate come from? It is part of a Memorandum of Greek Inspiration, 472. And now you go and say, okay, that's what you accepted. Why don't you use him? We will use this mechanism that provides, when they want to pass you through one phase to another, and when your debt remains high, institutional audits will be made to discover any irregularities in the registration and debt calculation. Why didn't they? Why did the Prime Minister say yesterday that we are going to check the memorandum and check on the PSI, Mr Venizelos - of the guilty, in any case, of these politicians - made intelligence? So, ladies and gentlemen, with these issues, we are not playing or bluffing, as many colleagues have said. We are trying within the framework of the European Union, the Eurozone, which is firmly committed to seeking a solution for the benefit of both Greece and Europe as a whole. In any case, SYRIZA does not want to destroy Europe, does not want to dismantle the European Union, does not want to burden European taxpayers, does not want to burden European workers. We want a Europe of democracy, development, cohesion, social justice, and that is why we call on you to vote in favour of the Programmatic Declarations, so that we can all make this effort together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Hoodi. I see that not all the parliamentary representatives are in plenary. Let them make sure they come in the next eight minutes to decide on the course of the meeting. Mr. Vassilis Kokalis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u227	And then, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u228	Then it's you, Mr. Loverdo. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from the heart of Thessaly Kampou, from Larissa. From this point of view, measures and solutions have been announced in the past, and they have certainly not been implemented. I think it is high time we agreed to set up a national support plan for the primary sector, since farmers and farmers are 30% of Greek society. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development recently said that production costs should be reduced. That's right. You will allow me to contribute with concrete proposals in this public consultation on reducing production costs and supporting the primary sector. I therefore propose that red tape be reduced. Farmers pay hundreds of thousands of euros to file supporting documents on the viability of their businesses. I also propose the establishment of a Agricultural Chamber, which will aim to advise farmers - which does not cost one euro - and is under the supervision of the Ministry of Rural Development, which will in fact replace the 'Aeronautics' that exploit farmers. It will contribute to research into agricultural production. As far as taxation is concerned, we must finally stop treating the fields as a holiday home. It's not a countryside land. It's our national wealth. As far as energy is concerned, it is now imperative to reduce both agricultural oil and agricultural electricity. And I come to the enhancement plans with the creation of reservoirs and the timely payment of the self-evident obligation the state has on aid. Already not only in Thessaly, but in many areas of Greece all farmers are resurrected with grassland, which they are looking for. Customs producers are unpaid. OPEKEPE must soon give radical solutions to this serious problem of grazing. Ladies and gentlemen, another major problem which concerns farmers comes from the national 'crime' of the sale of the Agricultural Bank. Who can tell where the fields belong today, which are mortgaged? Hundreds of farmers and farmers are held hostage by the liquidator of the Agricultural Bank. Law 3259/2004, the well-known state-of-the-art law, tried to resolve the issue, but did not solve it. More improvements are needed. Also, the loans with the guarantee of the Greek State are paid twice and three times. When judiciary decisions - not hundreds, but thousands - are justified by farmers, why should the state remain unreserved? I hope that these loans will also be included in the forthcoming legislation announced by the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly refer to the Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations, making some specific comments: on January 25, the mandate was clear. Who was that? No more memorial policies. No more austerity. I guess some people don't want to understand it. Only a word can characterize these people: Thrassus. We are being denounced - the abolition of the ENPIA. Mr Pavlopoulou has the impression that he is a professor of Public Law and was a MP and has given an opinion on unconstitutionalism. They're denouncing us about reinstatement of legality. Mr. Voridis isn't here. It had to be to give an answer: Is it in favor of feasibility or legality? Gentlemen of the New Democracy, I understand the embarrassment. Mr. Mitsotakis, you're in danger of turning into lenders' lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u230	Personally or as a party?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u231	As a party. I would remind you that no creditor in the world is in the interest of the debtor's bankruptcy. That's a simple start in the negotiation. No one's in any interest. I'm a lawyer. In my office, whoever comes and tells me that the gentleman will go bankrupt, I'm not interested in it. They're denounced why we're protecting our first residence, which is self-evident. These elections raised a very important issue, what I and the Independent Greeks said: "Give psychology and then money." Give psychology as the current government gives and then money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please, for thirty seconds. Because by measures such as suspension of the auction, which do not cost one euro, each borrower, knowing that he will not lose his home, will be able to go to work. With the abolition of HISPIA, someone who has money aside will buy a house. He needs psychology, above all. But some people ignore the fresh people's mandate. And the New Democracy and the PASOK. Of course, as far as the members of the river are concerned, I will just say that, ladies and gentlemen, you are being exposed. Expose yourself with the inappropriate and unacceptable attack on the Independent Greeks. The average reasonable man wonders why this attack is taking place. We're not coming to your level. We respect you, but the attack is both inappropriate and unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr. Red. I think that all the parliamentary representatives are here except for PASOK. Is a parliamentarian coming, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u233	We'll cover him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u234	You'll cover him. And since the Golden Dawn, I don't see any parliamentarian, but there's also...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u235	You're talking about the subject of the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u236	The reason I asked for the parliamentary representatives to be present is that we should co-decision on what time we are going tonight - and of course all Members - and the Bureau's proposal is. Tonight we shall continue until Mr Harakopoulos is the forty-sixth speaker. I would like to inform you that there is only one Minister, Mr Tasos Kourakis, which means that we will be able to complete these forty-six speakers by 02.00. The proposal from the Bureau is to start tomorrow not at 11.00 p.m., as we announced but at 9.00 p.m. Mr Mitropoulos will be chaired by the first Vice-President in order to enable them to speak as much as possible. I would like to inform you that we have already completed today, the second day of the programme statements, about twelve hours of meeting. In the Samara government's programme statements, there were the second day of seven hours of meeting. To the Papandreou government, six hours and fifty minutes of meeting. In the government of Costas Karamanlis, six hours and thirty-five minutes of meeting. To the government of Costas Karamanlis 2004, six hours and five minutes of meeting. At Costa Simitis government, six hours of meeting. To the government of Costas Simitis in 1996, six hours of meeting. At Andreas Papandreou Government in 1993, four hours of meeting. So I think it is a pity that we have met and devoted more than twice as much time to the parliament than to all previous governments. I would also like to inform you that many more speakers have spoken clearly than in previous circumstances. I give you some examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u237	How many people have spoken?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u238	We are already in the thirteenth second speaker. They have already spoken thirty-two Members of Parliament who are not in the Chamber of Deputies. As long as I can tell you that at the Andreas Papandreou Government in 1993 a total of seventeen Members spoke in the programme for all three days. At the Government of Constantine Simitis - we always talk about programming - in 1996 as a whole, all three days spoke about twenty-three Members. Also, in 1996, thirty-eight Members in total. In 2000, fifty-six Members in total. In 2004, in the programmes of the government Kostas Karamanlis thirty-six Members total. In 2007, the government again, Kostas Karamanlis, a total MP. In 2009, the government of Papandreou eighty-two total MPs and in 2012, in the government of Samaras a total of seventy Members. I think that there is no argument to say that in any way the parliamentary procedure has been undermined or the Members of Parliament have been deprived of their rights. I suggest if you agree, that we move forward, that is to say, until the forty-sixth speaker. I would like to inform you that I have a number of colleagues who have declared health-pretences because of whom they left. These colleagues will be able to speak tomorrow if they are on this list by the forty-sixth. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u239	Madam President, I can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u241	Madam President, first of all I very much appreciate the reference to the comparative information you have presented to us, and I think it is good that colleagues and ministers are given a great deal of time to express their views. As you know, in these cases, it is not certain that the Members who know they can speak today will indeed be able to speak. For example, Mr Harakopoulos, who is forty - six, has informed me that he cannot be present. I don't know if the same applies to Mr. Kegeroglu from PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u242	That's the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u243	I would suggest, and taking into account that we have made good progress, that we might be able to reach the forty-fourth Member. I don't know if Mr. Fisherian from the river is available. 'Cause otherwise I'm afraid the list will run out...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Mitsotakis, can I help you? If there are Members who have left, they will be facilitated tomorrow. We will not, in other words, delete them from the list as has been done several times. However, I would like those present to have the opportunity to speak and if there is more time to two, we will also propose some next ones. The major is as many as possible. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u245	Good, we have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u246	We're totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u247	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u249	Madam President, of course we agree, especially as you have completed your proposal: 'all those present to be able', and even if they need to be a little more. If we are present today, all those present today to speak, because it has been proved by your proposal, that we could have been able to do so in the previous time when we were calling for either a tolerance from the Bureau, as you have shown today for all the speakers, for a little longer than the time we had agreed, or for more Members to participate. Well, there's a way to stay more here in the Chamber and start tomorrow much sooner. So we're totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u250	We're on our way. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u251	Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u252	Thank you. We agree, too, as long as there is a possibility tomorrow. The issue of tomorrow's sitting and when will we start talking about it later?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u253	No, 9 a.m. said time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u254	The proposal is to go today until 2.00 p.m. and if there is a possibility with attendants and remain in the Chamber of Members to facilitate, and tomorrow morning to continue at 9.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u255	But we agree, Madam President, that we agree. Let's go down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u256	Good. And on that, then, we agree to start at 9 a.m. I could ask something last, because we saw that at first you told us which ministers will speak but - unless we lost it from the inexperience we have - we did not see the meeting then have information about which ministers will speak. I don't know if this can be done more times tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Theochari, I periodically update what ministers are going to talk about. It is now up to the ministers to speak only Mr Kourakis and this in consultation with the ministers who have remained long hours. The practice we have met in other procedures is to get the Minister in, to ask to speak, to interrupt everything and to speak with the Minister. I have chosen as President of Parliament not to follow such a procedure. But everyone show respect for the parliamentary procedure. This, of course, meant that there were ministers who remained in the Chamber many hours after having asked to speak and did not speak. They'll talk tomorrow morning. There are several ministers scheduled to speak tomorrow. I can tell you at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u258	Make it 9:30 better because we have requests from colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u259	And today at 1,000, Madam President, we're going to die with these hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Barca, because I see that you raise your hand, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u261	Madam President, I would like to stress that if tomorrow's list starts from Members who are in turn until number 46 and are not in the Chamber, I think it is unfair to the other Members who will remain until 02.00 and who are patient. In this sense, we could leave and talk tomorrow from the list, as it would start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u262	Mr Barkas, I am addressing you as a Member of Parliament who supports the government and I urge you to give the good example you are already giving. This is about the fact that the absent are members of the opposition. I do not want to exclude them from the moment that this has been the case. However, I think that the Members present can also take advantage of the vacuum that might arise if we do not continue to discuss the point of order for a long time. Are we in agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u263	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u264	Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u265	Madam President, let us be a little practical. If we finish today at 2 p.m., we will not start tomorrow at 9 p.m. So we will end today around 01.30' and start tomorrow at 09.30'. Secondly, those colleagues who are in the Chamber and who are on the list to speak tonight. Those who are not here, to look after them tomorrow whether or not they will speak, with respect, of course, always on the issue of counter-population that you mentioned earlier. We'll see about it tomorrow. If today there is the sixty-sixteenth present, speak. So, I repeat. Let's finish at 01.30, start at 09.30 and talk to those who want to talk today. I would also like to make a request. Picking up the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u266	In listening to the views of all the Members of Parliament, the Bureau's decision is to try to continue until 02.00 and to conclude until Mr Damabilit, number 44. And because I have to be okay and because my fellow Member has declared me a health relief from an opposition party, it will be up to the Bureau to make a commitment that those who are not in the Chamber will speak tomorrow. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor from PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard the country's Prime Minister present us with the government's schedule statements. We have wished him with our President, with all the PASOK speakers so far and with all the PASOK speakers who have spoken in the media good luck. That's what we mean. And as far as I am concerned, Minister, I wish you a success. That is what I have done so far in my political course, regardless of the outcome and the outcome. I must, however, stress, ladies and gentlemen, that our political time is too small to exhaust it to the necessary political politeness. Political time is too dense and we cannot waste time. We cannot limit ourselves to self-determination. We're all obliged. You are obliged to rule without delay and the opposition to express its views without delay, too. So what I will say is included in this need. I do not want to be misunderstood as speeches before the government even gets a vote of confidence. We are obliged very quickly to speak on the basis of what we see. Yesterday, we heard the Prime Minister's speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I choose for the very short time I have what I consider to be topical. There has been no single word, there has been no single phrase on development issues and on how it will be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, after seven years of recession, as we know at the end of 2014, there was a marginal development that was hopeful but was obviously not necessary to start solving problems. But it was a first good time. For 2015, as we all know, the European Central Bank and the European Commission and the markets have predicted - they do not foresee growth of around 3%, i.e. jobs, i.e. a better situation for citizens, that is, a better path for the country, that is, a principle of return to prosperity. Of course, it wouldn't be quick, it would be gradual. We also all know that this course has been interrupted for political reasons. It was interrupted by the events of the non-election of the President of the Republic and the subsequent events. But after 25 January we have a new political reality. We need to respect it and we need to start looking for it or the elements - I wish there were elements - on the basis of which we could say that yes, yet 2015 will be a year of economic development. Did the government promise it and guarantee it? Can we hope that there will be development policies, with direct or less immediate results, from what we have heard? Could we really hope for the start of a return to prosperity? I think not. Ladies and gentlemen, two are the foundations on which my arguments are based. Firstly and very simplely, there are no plans or even the intentions involved. The Prime Minister's speech, in my view, was the precursor but also the epitome of the recession. He spoke as the Prime Minister of the recession. For over an hour and a half, he said nothing about growth and the private economy. Only reservations were expressed about investment. No good reason, no plan or even a proposal on the meeting of a state, a state, an economy and a state which has been problematic in our country for decades. In a bad situation, which should have improved, three governments in the crisis failed, failed to do so and the next, the fourth government, also failed. And one can say: "But, the Prime Minister has chosen to speak. His right'. That's right. Did something happen today? Has something been heard in recent months or years from SYRIZA in this direction? In my view again, and I speak with respect to everyone, no. As I was very carefully following the House in its previous period, I would like to inform my new colleagues that they were hearing from the then-state opposition to the meeting of a state-economy officer, it was a distrust in the private economy and an intention to add guarantees to the functioning of the State, which will only have the effect of slowing down the process of the state's procedures, when it is mentioned or addressed to the economy. On the contrary, with what this government seems to think - we will see this in practice in the next few weeks - only growth, ladies and gentlemen, can lead to the recovery of the part of the independence we have really lost because of our economic collapse. Since the markets do not lend us, since the states to lend us had to vote for memos, since the reorganisation of Greece has no sources of funding, the gradual exit of the country, but also of the citizens, of the people who live here, from the current situation, is provided only through growth. There's no magical other way. And for this development nothing has been heard. But there is, ladies and gentlemen, a second set of arguments, on which my own belief is based, that this government has nothing to offer to the most useful and necessary sector in the world today, that of the economy and growth. The second set of reasons is based on European and foreign policy issues. As was seen from the early hours of government change, there is an intention of our foreign policy to engage in permanent negotiations on the financing of the country. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a great mistake. It's a tragic mistake. We, with the experience of the five years of crisis, chose not to involve our European and foreign policy on the issues of Greece's need for funding. And I would like to give a part of the issues of national pride and the issues of principle which are the first and the main reason for the choice of non-interference. And I stand a little on a basis of tactics that imposes, in our interest, this non-participation. A country, ladies and gentlemen, which increasingly calls for funding, cannot put funding at the same table and at the same time, at the same time, negotiations on our path to Europe and the international environment. If he does that, he's undermining both of them at the same time. It is not difficult to understand that. And from the first days that we have experienced the manifestations of foreign policy being made available by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and by the Prime Minister and today's relevant news, I think it is uncertain to conclude that the very high reservation regarding the Government's ability to achieve a proper development policy is not just visible but also visible in the most obvious way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u268	Geopolitically, what you're saying is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u269	I have many arguments in this regard, Mr Colleague, and we will be given the opportunity in the next few weeks to discuss them. We'll be right here. However, now my time requires me to draw up my last arguments and close them. I would like to close my position today, ladies and gentlemen, by highlighting one - I think - useful thinking. For the past two, three days, these percentages have been heard, that the two-thirds of those taken were right measures and 1/3 wrong measures. Source of the report of this reason is the Ministry of Finance. But there have also been reversals, corrections, 'we have said so', 'we have not said so', 'we have said it otherwise', in any case. Today this is why it was set up before the National Representation. And I stand on it and not in the related journalism that floods the media all afternoon and all night long. So I'm staying in what the Treasury said here. He said about 70% of the Memorandum Limitations in the Bridge Programme and 30% of the denial of those obligations. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I could say that four questions of rhetorical and pedagogical content have been raised quite reasonably. But it is not the juncture suitable for games or comedy. The situation has been tragic for five years in the country, and it concerns all the people and all the citizens who live here. And it is a lie that has been said for so many years, "you gentlemen have watched Greece and not the Greeks". A country is its territorial sovereignty and its people. We are all talking about Greece, or we do not know what we are talking about. So, for reasons of fundamental and non-peripheral nature - as deserved by this attitude - neither avenger nor arrogant, I would like to ask you a number of four questions, because I have no time. So we had, ladies and gentlemen, Members, who are today supporting the government, by 70% right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u270	For a long time, Mr President, your time has been exhausted, but I will show you the tolerance we have shown the previous ones. Take into account just the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much. Only I'm the only one maybe you interrupted to highlight this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u272	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u273	I don't mind at all. You're very good at performing your duties. Thank you very much. So I continue my speech, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the President has interrupted me. Well, I was saying. Were we 70% right and 30% wrong? We will ask you this question all the time. Secondly, we were patriots in this 70% and only 30% were we donors? I say this because I belong to those politicians who in the five years have been constantly prevalent. I was prevalent for 30% of our actions, while 70% were right? Thirdly, the committee of inquiry which will deal with the first, second memorandum, with anything that is still useful? I say it is. And the President of PASOK, Mr Venizelos, said so this afternoon. But I'm wondering. Will this committee of inquiry also cover the programme - a bridge? Fourthly, to remember a little - and we have a recent memory of most and most here - why did you not vote for any of the structural changes that were included in this 70%? Not even one for the drugs! We have fought against intergovernment, corruption and wastefulness in the area of health and social security, we have reduced the costs of the Greek people by EUR 9 billion and by EUR 3 or 3,5 million a year and you have not voted for a relevant legislative initiative! Is 70% self-criticism and 30%? We will be told in the next few days, which are not many, ladies and gentlemen. February is the month of political developments. In closing, you don't have our trust. You have folk loans. Your relationship with the citizens, as life proves, will be judged by the adequacy of your actions and not your reasons. And the days that come - not the months - will show who is right, because of course - I have to say it - nothing has yet been proved. However, as other colleagues have stressed, you do not have a people's mandate to take us into credit or to the drachma. You have a mandate to negotiate better and to get a better deal, and that is what we wish you, although we do not see it so far. We as PASOK therefore vote against you and we will oppose you, but in a critical way, that is, fair and not in the way that you have opposed the five years of the painful crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I don't think you have any complaints, Mr. Comrade. You have spoken twice as much time as you are entitled to. But this can't be...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u275	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u276	You've given party chief time to Mr. Loverdo. You know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u277	It's possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u278	In any case, it is important that Members speak as much comfort as possible. I now give the floor to Mr Tasos Kourakis, Deputy Minister of Education. Here, Mr. Kourakis, you have the floor for fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with my speech on the issues of education, seeing to me and Trinidad Mitafidis, I can only mention all those brilliant forms of educational and educational movement that have sealed the history of modern Greek education. For example, we should remember the work and activities of Dimitris Glinos, Alexandros Delmou, Rosa Impriotis, Alexiou, Milatos Kounturas, Evangelos Papanoutsos, Emmanouil Kriaras, as well as the thousands of educational anonymouss and surnames who have fought with dignity and free thinking, dedicating in this case the sacrifice of Nikos Temponeras, which was killed on 8 January 1991, to the latest history, protecting the school and its students. To these teachers, presenting our government program, finds our thoughts and souls and with their own works as a deposit we have eyes turned to the new generation, to all students and students, but especially to the backbone children, because they need our support most. The aim for which our Government works is to organise public free-of-democratic-level education. The first stone of our programme is a worthwhile stone, that is, we are aiming to alleviate the cultural inequalities that have their roots in social class inequalities, as well as to eliminate all kinds of discrimination, gender, race, religion and beliefs, social and national origin, the physical specificity of individuals and others from the institutional framework, as well as from the everyday life of education. In this direction we intend - and the quote is not accidental - to align our institutional framework with those laid down by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabled Persons, including disabilities in school for all. Reintroduce in an upgraded form the reinforcement of teaching and additional teaching support. To develop intercultural and anti-racist education and reception classes. To draw up programmes for support for the school population and the respective school units, mainly concerning vulnerable groups of young people, namely in difficult areas, people with financial tolerance, in Roma people, in relation to the infringability of minors. Strengthen the education of Greek children abroad, which is being seen. Let us move on to a substantial upgrading of the education of Muslim children in Thrace, in order to address school-leaving phenomena, to ensure their equal access to all levels and types of public education and to ensure the scientific training of teachers who teach this population category. We are ending the policy of dismantling and merging school units. However, we are reviewing the operation of school units which have been abolished on the basis of educational and social criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, the second stone is the satisfaction of the pressing educational needs after five years of austerity and monumental intervention. As we have said, our aim is to reconstruct public and free education of all levels, with universal participation of all young people throughout the fourteen-year range - that is, twelve plus two pre-school education. In particular: Firstly, the memorial laws that have dissolved and degraded public education cease to apply. We are moving towards the establishment of a transitional institutional framework for all levels of education, opening, as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education said, a broad dialogue with all involved. In cooperation with other co-legislative ministries, we are moving towards measures to relieve the humanitarian crisis, as the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotio, said, through preventive medicine, vaccination and food aid programmes, namely breakfast and small meals for students. We are starting today to redesign the detailed programmes and the school manuals. We aim to restructure the matter in the direction of reducing the volume of information for the sake of deepening and critical thought. Our aim is for the books next school year to be in time in schools and any changes in matter will not necessarily mean changing the school manuals next year, because we do not have time. We are exploring all the necessary conditions for achieving a reduction in the number of pupils per section, of course, insofar as the opportunities are to cover the places of training with permanent posts. I repeat: with permanent positions. At the school we have all nursed, we know that some lessons are primates and some secondary ones. For us primates are all those lessons that shape the prerequisites for becoming tomorrow's citizens educated, with critical thought and aesthetic culture. To this end we want our worthy place to cover general education in the public school of all knowledge and experience to get flesh and bone. To this end, aesthetic education, the cultivation of arts, physical education, health education, environmental education, information technology, the education of the democratic citizen shall be designed as equal and necessary aspects of the analytical programme together with traditional circular knowledge. We are working towards upgrading and gradually reintroducing the teaching of more foreign languages at school, according to pedagogical criteria. We want the possibility of obtaining certificates of language instruction from the public school so that the family budget can be relieved. Finally, in this section, we make the school center of the neighborhood, the social area of creation, open and after the end of the courses for cultural, sport, social solidarity and others, in cooperation with the educational community, the residents of the neighborhood and local authorities. In particular, for high school we strengthen the autonomous cultural role of the lyric, with the restoration of the essential equivalence - in general and technical professional direction - and our strategic aim is the single school of theory and practice, making use of the positive features of the experience of multi-classical high school. Thus, as the Minister of Education mentioned, we are launching the disconnection of pre-school and secondary examinations from the process of introduction to higher education. We are reintroducing the general average of 9.5 for promotion from one class to another. We remove the pan-Hellenic exams in the 1st and 2nd grades from the current school year, as we abolish the mandatory selection of 50% of the themes of the high school exams from the themes bank. As we have said, the bank will remain an advisory tool for teachers and students. Let us note that the money spent on the topic bank was EUR 1,570,000. With this money, a thousand alternates could have been hired to deal with part of the educational gaps. As mentioned by the Minister of Education, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, the reintroduction of school guards that have been made available is under way. We plan to upgrade public technical vocational education and reorganise the ESDP programmes. We provide equal access to higher education for their graduates. We are abolishing post-training TECs, i.e. schools of vocational training and remodeling the post-mortem year of PSAs from the year of apprenticeship, in the year of qualification of PSA graduates and re-establishing them from informal in formal education. They are reopening, in accordance with our commitments, the PSAs from the school year 2015-2016, the sectors and specialities of PSAs and PSAs that were abolished by Law.4146/2013. The teachers of the fifty specialties of technical vocational education repealed by Article 82 of Law No 4172/2013 shall be placed directly in the PES. For this year, you need to know that there are teachers who were paid with 75% and stayed in their homes. These teachers return and exploit for the educational and administrative needs of public schools in laboratory centres, in areas that can work, in IEKs and in the Ministry of Education services. Particularly for this year's pan-Hellenic examinations, as mentioned by the Minister of Education, and for the next two school years, we will ensure that the educational functions are not disturbed and that there are some urgent issues which facilitate them. So, first of all, for this school year, the examination procedures and arrangements concerning the dismissal from high school and the introduction to higher education of the students and students in the third grade remain the same. Secondly, for the third high school year of next year, in other words for students in the second grade, we are studying the possibility of communication - and it will soon be announced - of the scientific fields of specialisation so that candidates can choose more than one scientific field. The promotion grades of the 1st and 2nd grades and the degree of dismissal of the 3rd grades will not be counted to the level of access to higher education. Finally, we are opening up the dialogue with society on the new system of introduction to the HEIs, which will obviously take several years in the prospect of free access to higher education. Preprimary and primary education: We lay firm foundations for a public quality pre-school and primary education, which will provide all the necessary facilities for students and lay the foundations for the drastic reduction of school failure in the next grades. Ladies and gentlemen, we can assure the Greek people that we will do everything necessary to ensure that all children have uninterrupted access to public free two-year pre-school education throughout Greece. We emphasise the necessary infrastructure and staffing with the necessary staff. We ensure the quality upgrade of primary and full-day school. The desert villages without schools and the school units "mumuth" in urban areas are images that do not satisfy us and do not comply with modern teaching. Finally, in this section, the recent circular of the previous Minister of Education, on the change of the timetable since March 2015, is being revoked. Special treatment. We should all know and have embraced the fact that the training of disabled or even special educational needs is a fundamental indicator of culture. The declared ‘one school for all’ principle refers to the neighborhood school, in which all children with or without disabilities are enrolled and supported, staffed, equipped and formulated, so that the objective of integration and inclusion is consistently achieved. Of course there will also be special schools dealing with children whose kind of disability or their multiple disabilities do not allow them to join the public school. But we should stress that these structures are designed for personalized cognitive, recreational and sports programmes tailored to the needs of each student and support services are provided to both their students and their families. We will see to it that the institutionalised diagnostic bodies of the CEDEFOP and CEDEFOP are fully upgraded and supported, and that is our priority. We will proceed from this year to the implementation of the single recruitment table of substitutes for special educational and special assistant staff, as well as the rehabilitation of teachers serving the structures of special education and being made available by the abolition of their branches. Parallel support is granted to the disabled learner regardless of the existence of a school membership section. Too many parents are worried. We have announced this since the previous parliamentary term. The Special Education Act will be drafted from zero to zero with consideration of the proposals of all stakeholders. In the case of the education of children with disabilities and special educational needs, we want to have parents allies and partners. As far as private education is concerned, I would like to highlight three points. Firstly, we are supervising, as Article 16 of our Charter of Fundamental Rights requires, the maintenance of constitutional legitimacy in the establishment and functioning of private schools. Secondly, we are reforming and updating the legal framework governing the operation of private schools and schools on the basis of educational and scientific criteria and we are committed to its absolute compliance. Thirdly, we are ensuring, for reasons of social and public interest, the working rights of private teachers who return to the Ministry of Education and who cease to fall within the Ministry of Labour. We are again here, as in other categories of workers in the private sector, the institution of collective agreements. Finally, in this section, we are reconstructing the abstract private education management of the Ministry of Education. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a climate of cooperation and mutual trust between the state and the educational community together with the continuous free - I stress - training of teachers and democratic reconstruction of education are a safe prerequisite for the success of our efforts. The current procedures, as the Minister said, have not contributed to the creation of such a climate and have injured the educational community. This is why they are suspended, as are any disciplinary or promotional consequences, in order to examine in depth all relevant factors. The replacement of the current legislative framework for the evaluation of teachers and schools by a system of evaluation of educational and teaching work in a democratic and collective manner is necessary. However, we realise - and take care of this - that the operational assessment of educational work is a participatory and democratic methodology for the diagnosis of problems, for solutions and for the preparation of proposals and measures to improve the quality of education. Under no circumstances is it a tool for the hierarchical and financial distinction between school units or a penalty for wage differentiation and administrative discipline of 'officials', as we considered them to be. He'll tell you tomorrow and Mr. Katrugalos that we're abolishing all the disciplinary legislative mesh of n. Date of birth: 4057/2012 and No 4093/2012. Up to its overall reform, the anti-constitutional arrangements of the Disciplinary Law shall be immediately abolished, such as the provision that the staff member wishes on a holiday or a referral to the Disciplinary Board and the provision laying down as an offence manifestly inappropriate or inappropriate or unworthy conduct in or out of service. We recognise that participation in trade union or other social activity is in no way an inappropriate behaviour. We ensure the transparency of procedures in all service changes as mentioned by the Minister. Our Government will not tolerate any of the well-known practices of a clientele of a pedagogical and administrative authoritarian expression of the days and the reward of the minor effort. We will immediately draw up a new democratic framework for the operation of school units and managers with an upgraded role - I stress - of teachers' associations. Finally, we are committed that, for all aspects of our programme, we will be opening up a broad and substantial dialogue with all those involved in the educational process, with teachers, students, parents, the scientific community, the officials of the public administration. I want us to work together openly and honestly with everyone. We set the educational goals and plan a specific timetable to finally create an educational system that promotes the joy of knowledge and learning, so that our children love school. We want children happy, with the optimism of life, who will love their fellowman, regardless of color, race and religion. We want young people and young people with an uprooted mind, who will not go sketchy, and above all will only be leaned to give hands and help those who are low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Kourakis. Mr Kostis Hatzidakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to wish the government a success, because the Greek Government's success will also be a success. And I mean it. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, I imagine that none of us have suffered political lobotomy since the elections. You have your positions, we have ours and we want to contribute with the deposit of our evenings to the best possible result for our country. This is the essence of democracy, after all. Therefore, I will present our positions, focusing on some issues relating to the economy. I am not going to deal in particular with the cooperation which it seems will begin with the OECD. I just want to say that I thank the government for the pleasant surprise it has given us and for having given me personal attention. So far, you have taken us down and taken me down for our cooperation with the OECD, for the toolbox. Now call the OECD about as a savior. Congratulations on your choice and thank you again for this pleasant surprise you have made! I will talk about two key issues relating to the economy and the negotiation with our lenders. The Prime Minister spoke yesterday about the target of the balanced budget. He also spoke - not extensively, I have to say - about investment. Both issues are issues of absolute priority, except that the Prime Minister has not explained either how the target of the balanced budget is to be achieved or how we will attract investment. I wish, because I believe there are some real dangers, and I almost referred to these two issues. On the budget, Mr Tsipras referred to Thessaloniki's benefit programme, which SYRIZA himself had cost to EUR 11.5 billion. At the same time, at the income level, he announced the abolition of HPAI, the increase in duty at 12,000 euros, etc. Of course, no Greeks are opposed either to the benefits or to the reduction of taxation. But the question is that the combination of these two policies does not lead to the objective of the balanced budget. It leads to an increase in deficits that one should cover. In fact, this is a huge opening. I would remind you that the primary expenditure on the budget is 49 billion. You are going to add additional 12 billion to this, and at the same time you are announcing these reductions in taxation. Neither the markets nor the troika are going to cover these new deficits and any derailment of the budget will be a derailment of the economy. Don't underestimate it, because you'll be dealing with it in the next few months. This is not a danger. These are things that will start to happen from March, April and then. And so, ladies and gentlemen, because this is just mathematics, you should know that either the budget is being derailed or your promises are being derailed. There's no other way. And I'm telling you to make your decisions as soon as possible. Secondly, I fear that SYRIZA means them without investors. Mr Tsipras focused mainly on public investment - to be precise, he only spoke about the development bank again did not make it clear how the resources would be found to establish this development bank - but on private investment I think he sent out very negative signals on the market. He said, in other words, that there would be an end to the privatization of infrastructure and networks - where would they be? Do I? I think that one - one will cancel a number of insurance arrangements and all changes in labour legislation will be cancelled. All this sends out the message that Greece does not only go on the path of reforms, as the term in Europe is perceived, but is going on a path of counter-reformation, an extremely negative signal for investment, as well as for the creation of new jobs. So the doctrine is that they are benefits without income and investment without investors. This, in addition to the objective problems in terms of budget and development, also creates a complication that I would like to highlight. It adds problems to the negotiation, which needs to be done with our creditors, so that Greece will have support in the next few years. Why does he add problems? Because before you get to the debt settlement, you should address the question of budget implementation, which should be balanced but also the issue of reforms, which are prerequisites for you to agree on the rest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And here comes the central question that concerns us all in relation to the negotiation and conclusion of the agreement. Is there going to be a conflict, or are we going to have the most infamous cyvigation on the part of the government? For my part, I want to be absolutely clear. We support you for the second. We will support a turn in realism on the part of the government. Let us use your electoral victory to achieve something better with our partners and not lead us through an extreme rhetoric, a populist approach and a noble blindness, according to Giannulopoulos, to an economic and national defeat. Because economic isolation and bankruptcy are not a source of national pride. It's defeat and humiliation. In Europe, there is no doubt that everything is well and I tell you that I am a Europeanist. I have spoken in the past about the dangers arising from the extreme attitude of the troika. But another so dangerous is the trade in populism. We can't let ourselves fall into the iceberg celebrating. And that's what I'm afraid might happen. It requires skill, creativity and exploitation of opportunities for a beneficial national compromise. What do I mean? Now in the negotiations you are doing you have a much better field than we had in 2012, when the co-operation government took over. You have, firstly, the Eurogroup decision of November 2012, which allows, on the basis of the primary surpluses achieved and a cycle of reforms that have been completed, to achieve a settlement and substantial write-down of debt by extending, with a grace period, the objective of the primary surpluses. You know, I said it and we were all talking before the elections, but you blamed us again on us for being outdated, neoliberal and donor. Now I am glad that you have a turn, the Minister of Finance, various other members of your staff, and you are no longer talking about a haircut, which was impossible, but you are adopting these objectives, for which we have been accused. Welcome! We welcome you for this part at least in the area of common sense. Apart from this Eurogroup decision, you also now have the Juncker package, which is essentially a second ESDP and which you can press to push the country forward towards development. You have the Draghi package, which is a liquidity injection for banks and for the real economy, only to benefit as a country we should be in a programme. The heroism I have heard on behalf of the Prime Minister does not obviously benefit in this direction. You also have the fact that a recession was closed. When we started in 2012, we had a recession of 7% and the country since last year started entering the path of recovery and development. All this is what you need to take advantage of in fact of the mandate given to you by the Greek citizens, because - not to be foolish - the mandate given to you was neither for a blind conflict nor for a lack of liquidity nor for a further rise in unemployment nor for a country's exit from the euro. You didn't have that order. The rhetoric uprisings that lead you to become the Chaves of the Mediterranean do not only ensnare you but dominates the country's course and undermine the sacrifices of many generations of Greeks. So don't get carried away from these rhetorical outbursts. It is true that promises without opposition temporarily afflict anyone who gives them, but then punish him too severely. Remember what happened with George Papandreou and “the money is there”. It is your right if you decide to make a political character but at the same time it is not your right to drive the Greeks along the road. This country has fought for many decades not just to be a Balkan country, not to be Albania and Skopje. So let us negotiate with a view to an honest compromise that will keep Europe's vision of Greece alive. It doesn't fit our homeland the Balkanization, the isolation, the regression. We are the party founded by Constantine Karamanlis, the leader who put Greece in Europe and we have a double obligation to be present in this great national battle, in the battle for Greece of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. I call to Stepma Mr. Christos Karayannides from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Madam President. I think we're living in a surrealism. The New Democracy on January 25th lost the election and insists on the same terrorism. He doesn't understand. Someone has to let them know they've lost the election. They continue with the same self - surprise prophecies. While they support us, they think we're going to be destroyed. A second surrealism is that the people who bolted the boat tell us "not to fall on the iceberg". A third surrealism is Mr. Brutsi's who impressed me yesterday. Mr. Brutsis said yesterday that with SYRIZA's announcement of minimum wage, forty thousand and thirteen seats have been lost. Attention, he did not say "forty thousand per cent" or "forty thousand two". He spoke of forty thousand and thirteen places. Mr. Brutsis was sitting there counting one by one. Where does that number come from? It is the negative deficit of the last two months of redundancies. It is very strange - to use a kind expression - that of unemployment, the Minister for the last two and a half years who has increased the rate of unemployment to greater than the post-war rates, to say that SYRIZA is responsible for the forty thousand and thirteen lost positions. He has this courage, because he can speak of the safe being a civil servant for many years, a Member of Parliament and a Minister and not have lived for an hour. This is therefore a situation in the New Democracy. When they realize that the elections have been lost, we will be able to have a more productive debate. On the other hand, there is the river. The special buyer in her first speech was raped to say what the Prime Minister didn't say. I have to inform you about the procedure that the Prime Minister is saying the main lines of a planning plan and then the ministers then specify what the Prime Minister has said. If the Prime Minister were to tell all of this, three days would be sitting here, Alexis Tsipras and the Ministerial Council would not be here. So, with that logic and because it criticized us for the cohabitation pact, for example, and because Mr Paradiseopoulos announced it, I expect the special buyer to do her self-criticism. Then the Parliamentary spokesman came and criticised us for not talking about segregating Church and State and the minimum guaranteed income. Is that really your concern in this five-year-old throat? Because that's where you got an answer from Mr. Balta for the separation of Church and State. For the minimum guaranteed income, did one of you hear the package announced by Theano Fotio, the Deputy Minister? The political deafness cannot be cured. It is good, however, when you write speeches two and three days ago, to adjust them according to what you hear, not what you have written three days ago, because you seem inconsistent with what you say. So don't rush and you're being exposed to this. So you want me to tell you what your President says about the minimum wage? Listen to them again, since you like to hear these things. Mr Theodorakis said that there should be no increase in workers, because these damned workers want to eat, they want to be hot, they want to have electricity, and they want to have electricity, and because they in large part import them, they will create a deficit in the commercial balance. So the workers die so that we can have a good economy! You are really going to say a political position or we will discuss with brains because so far your criticism is not productive and it is not productive because you have learned at a level of the 'Protagonists'. So get inside the Chamber, get inside the House, get into the politics and talk constructively. The third concerns the JRC. He said the Secretary General, Mr. Koutsubas, that SYRIZA will take anti-grassroots measures. I have not heard any anti-grassroots measure by SYRIZA during the hours I was here in plenary, unless the anti-grassroots measures, for example, are the reintroduction of collective agreements, it is the reintroduction of three-member arbitration, it is the staffing of control mechanisms for 'black' and uninsured work, it is the reinstatement of five-and-a-half in the hospital, it is the abolition of 1 euro in the recipes, the gradual reduction in the participation of the insured. We may be reformists. You'll live with this. And we'll live. But these things aren't unpopular. And at some point, apart from the wooden formalica, say a reason why you were going to do, because we cannot be in the historical insistence that people should be hungry, people should not have to go to the hospital, people should not be able to send their children to the university, and you should say when socialism comes, all will be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u284	You haven't heard what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u285	Things need to be solved now. We must now solve things and not by the invoking of socialism, in which we are all looking forward and we are all looking forward to it. However, we have a different approach to how we are going to get, because social transformation will not come by a presidential decree, nor will we legislate it to say tomorrow we are starting social transformation. Social transformation is everyday practice. It is built and disciplined in the world and the mass movement, when you give it models of how to walk to change society. We haven't invented any other way to say by an order since socialism tomorrow. When you find him, recommend him to us so we can go talk. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm ending up with an appreciation. There are three dates this week which are important. They are important because they will be about the next few months and the next few years where this country will go. We in the elections did not come down to go to compromise or say "Children, continue the memorials, we had a good five years". We voted on the Greek people and said clearly that we will say that this programme is no longer going. It doesn't make sense to take the country off, it doesn't make sense for the banks to put it to the workers' shoulders, it doesn't make sense to expect you to borrow a country which, with these loans, will just pay back interest and reach 180%. Because the New Democracy may have many marvelous economists, but let one explain to us the proud. How is it possible, in 2010, to have a debt of 124% and reach 180% with a grand PSI and a huge 250 billion loan programme? Have you ever thought of why this failed? Why didn't everything you told us as objectives, starting with Mr. Papaconstantinou? I am referring to four finance ministers so far, because Mr Vorides said that he was the first Minister of Finance to say no numbers. If you do not understand, the problem is not the numbers, but the political will to resolve the problem with the numbers. For we are not talking about numbers at the Eurogroup or at the summit, but about how the European Union is politically or will manage the debt problem - not just Greece - or there will be no European Union. That is what we are trying to communicate to both the European Union and creditors. Because no matter how much you milk a cow that's ready to die, milk won't come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. I call to Stepma Mr. Nikos Dendias from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, let me wish you - for I was absent on the day of your election - a good day for your work and for Mr Kostis Hatzidakis to follow and express my hope - as I think all Greeks - regardless of our convictions that the government will succeed in its work. From there on, however, I have to say that the debate on the programming declarations has not made us particularly happy in this direction. First of all, I would like to say that a very large part of the debate in this Chamber has been devoted to public debt. I share the view that has been heard in the Chamber and say that this is not the central issue of this debate but you will allow me to tell you that in my view and as things stand, this is not necessarily the central issue that concerns the country at this stage. The figures - which it is worth sharing at times - are quite clear. Indeed, at the moment the debt is close to 180% of GDP, when 2009 was 129.7% of GDP. Of course, the arithmetic difference is much smaller. The percentage is due to the fact that the Gross National Product has fallen very low. However, the interest rate in 2009 was almost 12.5 billion. Today when we are discussing interest rates, they only exceed 5 billion. That means that the country has a very small cost of serving this very large public debt. I would therefore suggest, instead of constantly discussing public debt, that we see something that is, in my view, much more important. This is the growth model of the Greek economy. I will take the little time available to discuss two key issues. The first is the matter of the budget. First theme: Should we or should we not have a balanced budget? Repeatedly in the history of mankind and in modern history, opinions have been developed against the balanced budget. I have listened with pleasure, if you wish, but also with particular attention as a debt, to the position of Prime Minister Tsipras in favour of the balanced budget. So I expected - as I think we all expected in the Chamber - what will then be said to serve this initially balanced budget. I have to say that we have not become wiser in this. And I'm explaining. The so-called "Thessaloniki programme", valued by SYRIZA - we had appreciated it much more - is about 11.5 billion to 12 billion. Let us accept this assessment. Topics which have also been addressed in this Chamber add to these 11.5 billion, the abolition of HNVIA in part, because we have to assume that it will be renamed in another way and that there will be something left for the 12 000 euro tax. But, if you like, let us stay at 12 billion and not add about 5.5 billion more that come out with a clipboard account that I made, adding various benefits to the level of education and other things. Where will they be served to serve - and I say again - the balanced budget? There's only one answer. Taxes, extra taxes. Consequently, what we expected as a fundamental obligation on the programming declarations is for the government to come here and tell us either by the Prime Minister or by the Finance Minister, which additional taxes will be imposed and which taxes will be imposed. If one takes into account that SYRIZA has agreed that the Greek citizen has been overtaxed, I do not understand that the government's programming declarations serve the objective of the balanced budget, unless there is a secret, heavier agenda for taxation which is not developed here, as has not been the case in the election process. In addition to this, however, what is more important to discuss, ladies and gentlemen, is the country's economic development model, because we repeatedly say the memorandum, the bad memorandum, etc., implying to a large extent the debt behind it and its service obligations. Let us assume that tomorrow morning for whatever reason SYRIZA's negotiating tactics had the greatest effect and suddenly the European Union, at a time of Christian love for the Greek people, gave us all the debt and the International Monetary Fund did so, and the European Central Bank did so. Would that be a solution to our problems? The next day, would Greece be on the right track? Would we have solved everything? Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that in my humble view, after ten years we would be exactly where we were in 2009. Because disease isn't the debt. Debt and deficits are the symptom. Disease is the productive model. We have a productive model that if it doesn't change, we can't go anywhere. I shall mention two simple numbers. Exports are one third of imports. Innovation has 0.47% participation in Gross National Product. Is there any possibility that a country with these parameters will ever thrive? In the past two and a half years, our government has made considerable efforts in this direction, which is not the time to develop you now, because there are no programme statements on what we have been doing for two and a half years. The question is: Are these areas of priority for the SYRIZA Government, yes or no, and, if they are, how will they be served? He did not hear about it. Our perception is that the country needs hundreds of thousands of new businesses. Our perception is that the country needs more than 100 billion investments. All the things that have been developed here in the programming declarations, create counter-incentives in the creation of businesses, create disincentives in the coming of foreign investments. How will the unemployment of 25% -26% be combated? From the public sector alone? Are we going back to the same state-owned development model? And we hope that's how we get the country out of the crisis? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that although the SYRIZA Government is accompanied by our wishes and our hopes to achieve what we have heard during the debate and by the Prime Minister and also by the ministers, they cannot make us optimistic or wiser. We are obliged - this is our national duty - to support the government and its negotiating effort on the road to structural change if it chooses to follow it. And I hope he will. I am afraid, however, of what I have heard during the debate in this House, that it is not prepared to go along with it. And that leads us, on the one hand, to vote against the programme statements, but above all to have a strong fear of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. I think you were one of the few who didn't speak at a speed in Minister's time. Now, Mrs. Uunidou's word is spoken by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Madam President. I am very pleased that our House has a President. Ladies and gentlemen, after five years of collective depression, citizens are smiling again. They feel they're recovering their lost dignity. They are on the side of the government, citizens who have not voted for it. As soon as the Syntagma Square was filled yesterday by citizens who spontaneously consulted themselves through social media to stand up to the government, calmly, dignifiedly, without bars, without chemicals. In my area at Kosanis Lefkanaki, where the situation is gloomy and inviolable, where poverty has taken explosive proportions due to the highest unemployment rates and, even long-term, to the cafes, on the street said: "High head, we are here, we felt Greek, go!" This has succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, the new government within the first week, unite the people, feel that it has substance and dignity, that it has power and that it can contribute to the success of the national effort. The citizens today see a government stable in its election commitments, progressing unequivocally in the implementation of the Thessaloniki programme in accordance with the Prime Minister's yesterday's programme statements. The priority is to tackle the humanitarian crisis, because the protection of the weak, the socially excluded, the guarantee of access to the most necessary public goods is the quinteenness of democracy and the social state. I have stressed many times that western Macedonia and, above all, Kozani are the heart of the country's energy system. The development of my country and area passes through the preservation and enhancement of the public character of PPC. This has been proven over sixty years. In reality, strengthening its public character and reconstruction is a prerequisite for productive reconstruction. The previous governments have denounced it and privatised it to a large extent and in the midst of the appalling increase in contractors, which are today threatening its existence and its existence. The policy pursued over the last five years has led to the reduction of PPC's necessary regular staff. The needs are now covered with super-professionals where staff are working in slave-trafficking conditions which are dangerous to their lives, as well as with two months and eight-month contracts, covering skills required to be covered by skilled regular staff, with hundreds of our fellow citizens hostage, under Dachau conditions, and above all the great know-how they have acquired over the past sixty years is lost. No more, then, these policies and tactics against workers and the public interest. No more deregulation of labour law. No more slave trade. Full reorganization and staffing of PPC. Ladies and gentlemen, this area that has been based on the country's development needs the government's support for its environmental upgrading, support for the social cohesion of our region, support for the social infrastructure that this region has, support for the health infrastructures of nursing and health personnel. At the same time, however, we must alleviate and remove the injustice that our region has had for so many years, to be lifted from the new ESDP to develop the funds, to remove our region's classification as a transitional area. It is important for our region to come Community funds for the development of this region. Ladies and gentlemen, public infrastructure, transport and networks will be served through a hierarchical public investment plan, with respect for the environment and the citizen, the national productive reconstruction plan. We must therefore proceed with the treatment of chronic pathogens and the monumental degradation of the overall transport and network production system operating on three parallel routes. The first axis, the construction of the staff and the preparation of the strategic planning of the Ministry and of the public administration. Why has it not been built for so many decades? But I think, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware of this. We know very well the interests involved. Secondly, the institutional shield of the overall framework for the production of projects and the reforms needed for the country. And thirdly, the implementation of projects and infrastructures and the planning of young people on the basis of a strategic infrastructure plan which will also integrate environmental policies. Our priorities are to make use of existing infrastructures, to highlight priorities with project hierarchy, to implement new transport infrastructure with complementarity and integration into a combined transport system that includes and connects the provincial network, motorways, railways, ports and airports. Gravity will be given to the maintenance and operational upgrading of existing infrastructures in order not to be decommissioned. They are interventions that at small cost give added value to local communities. We are putting an end to the privatisation and divestment of the important infrastructure in the country. We will not allow reappearance of phenomena like the underwater artery of Thessaloniki. For this reason, the projects carried out with the existing concessions will be completed. However, they will be subjected to thorough monitoring of the legality of timescales. We will ensure the public interest and the public's position with the installation of electronic tolls, we will reduce the amount of the fee, and we will also take care of the social categories on the basis of criteria and for residents of adjacent areas with the national roads. All citizens' persecutions on these issues will be stopped. We are committed to legislation. The new starting-up concession projects will be reviewed separately on a case-by-case basis, with budgets and terms of competitions, with dialogue with local communities and operators, exhausting all possibilities of defending the public interest and on the basis of Directive 2014/23 of the European Union. The above will be supplemented by the creation of an interconnected system of national technical specifications and modern and non-real invoices for valuation work. We note that the resources available in the new ESDP are mostly committed. The increase and implementation of the Public Investment Programme is a commitment to the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic transport infrastructure remains public social property. The priorities of the Government are integrated planning that will include priority combined movements in fixed track, maritime transport and air transport, modernisation of the entire existing rail network and its maintenance, as well as extension of fixed tracks and railways. I would stress that the new government must meet the Cozanias' request to reopen the railroad. The priority is also to promote public transport in all parts of the country, environmentally friendly, road safety, low-cost travel, to facilitate the movement for socially weak groups and unemployed with a free card to move to urban public transport, to promote Greece in an international transit centre using combined transport. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to prepare and implement an integrated air transport policy for Greece, both with regard to air carriers and the airport infrastructure on the basis of central planning, using European standards and using public services, the public infrastructures of airports and the PSY, that is to say, what has so far been devalued. In this context, our policy includes: the creation of a national air transport plan to highlight Greece's airports both in hubs in the European air transport network and in the competition of airlines. Determination of the responsibilities of local government, of course, by creating the right conditions for operators associated with air transport and tourism development and at the same time encouraging their cooperation. Strengthen the interoperability of individual transmission networks. With regard to the development of the concession procedure for regional airports, this tender will be cancelled as will all scheduled infrastructure divestment tenders, which are related to the country's productive restructuring. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks' answer to the things that have come back and the mandate to the new government was equally deafening. We'll make it to antenna. Our memorandum was signed on 25 January and is with the Greek people. In this Memorandum we are memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Uunidou. I would like to inform the House of the list of missing speakers and of the procedure. Mr. Hadjisavas Christos from Golden Dawn, Mr. Barkas Konstantinos from SYRIZA, Mr. Varvitsiotis Miltiadis from New Democracy - there are two documents sent from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Syrizas from Syriza, Mr. Mavrotas from Potami, Mr. Zacharias from SYRIZA, Mrs. Manolakos from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Damavitis from the Independent Greeks. With regard to the original proposal which was to complete the cycle, it was still Mr Kegeroglu from PASOK and Mr Charakopoulos from New Democracy, for whom he was informed by the representatives of their parties that they had already left and agreed to'serve them' - if I may express - for tomorrow. Of the Members I have spoken, I see Mr Barkas here, whom I call at the Step. I would also ask Mr Mavrotta to be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u291	I'm sorry, it's me after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u292	Yes, Mr. Symblene, I read the list. I'm doing this to make sure we get the switch.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u293	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. So Mr. Armalene will normally precede in his turn. Here, Mr Barkas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we have here today? What account do we hear from Vice -Population MPs? We have a previous generation narrative. We have the so-called 'Grexit', except that the Greek people, in their vote on 25 January, made a way out of the coup d'état, at the same time as statements by officials and government officials from outside the world excluded this case. Ladies and gentlemen, a tough and unfair five-year regime has given us its change and it's over. The memorial regime that erased our smile and immersed us in misery is over. And it ended the power of the Greek people, the workers, the young, the unemployed, the farmers, the pensioners. Those who lifted the burden of the crisis, they're done. Greece stands up again with pride, confidently, with dignity. The fear, the last hope of the old political regime ended both inside and outside Greece. These days, we all understand that Europe is changing and Greece is moving on. On January 25th, we didn't just have a SYRIZA victory. We had a historic triumph of our people who defeated fear and punished their terrorized terrorists. On January 25, we changed our era and now we all move on together, no matter what we voted until yesterday. All together, because poverty, unemployment, despair and padlocks do not discriminate. We do not want to go back to 2009, because we and in 2009 were against you, against your policies. Because in 2009, it contained all the causes and diseases that led us to this crisis. We do not want to return to this regime. With this regime, we want to conflict and conflict. And in this conflict, the great majority of society must be next to us and stand by us, to end once and for all with strife, corruption, communism and rousfetti, end with the concepts and practices of the client state, the national suppliers and the national contractors. Once and for all, why don't you go? SYRIZA is fighting not for a return to the past but for a jump in the future. We have a vision of building a new Greece, a country with justice, equality and democracy. Because we have a vision. We have a vision in our homeland, no child should stay without a plate of food, no warmth, no books, no children's station and no school. No human being living without free medical care and medical assistance. No one needs a briefcase to operate in a public hospital. No one colds in the wilderness of winter, left by the state, hit by the cruelty of banks and bankers. No one lives in the dark because they cut off the power. We have a vision in our homeland, no young man stays without education, work, the prospect of a better life. No young people expect the five months to entertain their unemployment. No young person is exploited uninsured or rented. No elderly in abandoning grief pensions and poverty. No civilian unprotected in the despair of unemployment. We have a vision, our homeland is a fair and civilized country, a society open to the different, which will give equal opportunities to all with equality and equality for all, with laws that apply to all and are respected by all. We entered a new era, literally in a new era. New situation, new tasks. We have said that with the election of SYRIZA there will be a positive shock in society. The reality, however, is much more encouraging than our predictions. A five-year-old regime fell into iceberg. He fell down, exhausted all his weapons, and society took breath. And not just that. Society re-embracing and reminiscent of what it means to dignity, vindication, solidarity and hope. We may be 15 days, calendar days, from the day the country left the darkness of the memorials but in political and historical time, we all feel - we hope - that now we can join up. We're talking about originaling, ladies and gentlemen. Let everyone understand that. We are talking about doing what we committed ourselves to, about what the Greek people voted on. To end the memorials and negotiate the loan contract. To solve a problem that is not a Greek but a structural problem of the Eurozone. There is the bet, a bet that is moved by all the peoples of Europe, a simple truly ransoming and healing for the vast majority of Europe's societies. We can't go any further like this. It has come to us, and it has been our responsibility to say and do what is necessary for the citizens today, no matter whether this will stress the markets and those who hide behind them. The class austerity was disapproved in Greece. The People's verdict has made it a past. That's not a SYRIZA whim or an intentional exaggeration. The memorials are over. They will also be rejected in Spain and Portugal and in other countries of Europe. And we still have too much to see. Nothing is stronger than an idea where her time has come. It's time to re-believe that we could live differently. After years of joining this government to unite the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, to restore stability and anticipation to the world, to pave a new way for Europe, all this without earthquakes and strains. The programme statements of the new government are resolutely introducing the country into the memorial era. But it's not enough for the new government alone. It also needs the critical support of the world, where democratically it must be reorganised and taken into its hands, starting from Wednesday to every square in the country and all the capitals of Europe. A vote of confidence does not give this government. It gives the world who participated in the struggles in Genoa, Thessaloniki and Athens forums, in the struggles against Article 16, all those who deplored politics, those who participated in the rally against the murder of Gregopoulou, those who participated in the squares, those who participated in the Skouries. Good power, comrades and comrades.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Mr Barkas. And I call on Stepa Mr. Nikos Syrmalene, who will find that he will not be wronged as he feared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u297	I'm not afraid of the injustice of time. I am afraid of the happy hour, which exists with a few ministers, although the government is consistent with the previous period of at least two and a half years that we have lived together, Madam President, and despite the fact that I admire your strength that you have not yet been replaced for at least a little while by a Vice-President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, with your permission I just want to say that I consider my obligation to the extent that there are Members who wish to speak and that the list has not been exhausted, to remain. Moreover, do not forget that the services of this House are still the workers. Indeed, because I asked them not only did they not express any complaints but they stated beforehand that they intend to remain to facilitate and obtain as much content as possible. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u299	Indeed, the credit to the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to welcome the historic victory of our people on 25 January 2015, a historic victory which is a vindication of struggles, of hope for generations and generations. And unfortunately, tens of thousands of people have not been able to see at the moment of joy and share with us the optimism that we are breathing into the new reality that is being shaped. And I want to say that in my area, in the Cyclades there is really no historical precedent for the Left three of the four Members. And of course, there was not even a precedent in 2012 in the modern history of Greece, for the Left MEP to come to me to have this honour. Now, of course, together with the other two colleagues from the Cyclades, we are taking a huge responsibility for the work that we will support and bring to completion together the whole parliamentary group and all the people. I would like to say that our islands Greece and the Cyclades, over the last few months, in addition to the wage cuts, pensions, tax raid and the other horizontal measures that have been in existence by the Memorandum governments, have suffered a great deal of damage, which is, in fact, equivalent to the abolition of forty-year conquests for decentralisation and regional development. They closed down services, public financial services, closed up structures, IKAs, Labour Inspectorates and a number of other services. The public health system collapses, education works in a problematic way, self-government has become a public service in the performance of day-to-day tasks. The ferry interconnection operates at two speeds, a winter, which is extremely problematic and one that goes relatively well. The maritime transport has suffered severe reductions in the routes due to a cut in the funds for the so-called ‘problems of public interest’. Tourism, although it is upward - upward, of course, not by Greek tourists but by foreign tourists - cannot compensate for the cut-out and isolation of many islands from the centres of the island prefectures and the mainland, it cannot compensate for the hardship of moving the permanent residents who for reasons of facilitation and solution to tax or insurance problems, are obliged to move outside their island, cannot compensate for the lack of doctors of specialties, cannot compensate for unemployment in large islands such as Syros, where the Neorio Shipyard is growing, professionals shut down or give a livelihood, public officials cannot live with hunger wages. In the face of this situation, the Government of Social Rescue must include the solution to the problems of island status, which is a prerequisite for the European Treaties and the Greek Constitution. Our Government must work together with the islands and local communities, measures to implement the island specificity, in addition to the reduced VAT rates in the Aegean Sea and the maintenance of low rates in tourism. These are unnecessarily, if we want island Greece to have a sustainable development perspective in all areas with sovereign, of course, sustainable quality tourism. Among the crucial issues relating to the sustainable development of island Greece, two are the most crucial, without undermining the rest. The first is the coastline issue. Its effects have already been apparent immediately after the new leadership took responsibility for the Ministry of Shipping and the Aegean, such as the end of the one-circuit contract, the damage of the "MYTILINE" ship that operates routes to Samos and the northern Aegean Sea, the adjunct to "PANAGIA TOOU", formerly "AGIOS GEORGIOS" which now makes the line Kythira - Antikythera due to non-paids. These phenomena are the results of a more unsuccessful and bankrupt coastal model based exclusively on private companies and having the most expensive tickets from all European Union countries. Unfortunately, the treatment of maritime interconnectors cannot be radically solved in time beyond micro-improvements, except by designing and setting up the public boarding body that will require at least a few months to implement. It will be an entity which, firstly, will design the minimum public transport network and, secondly, will create the framework for the provision of the transport project either by vessels of the operator itself or by leasing ships from private ferry companies. The second crucial issue is public health. Specialisation doctors or agricultural doctors may not continue to be under-store or staffed exclusively, which change every fortnight. It cannot be done with a former fisherman and cost EUR 3 to 4000. Also, there may be no ambulances or even drivers of the EMCDDA. Our proposal, which the head of the Ministry of Health must directly deal with, is the support of three hospitals in the Cyclades, which must be done first by upgrading the Syros and Naxos Hospitals, but also by joining the ESS and opening the Santorini Hospital, the staffing of health centers and regional doctors, providing incentives, the creation of a regional NSAB, the operation of a telemedicine system in the small islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a slight tolerance, Madam President. From there on, there are some other issues that I am emphatizing. Support for ship repair and among them the New Town Shipyard, the stop of industrial wind farms on four islands, Tinos, Andros, Paros and Naxos, which will destroy the landscape and tourism and will have no benefit for local communities, the construction of special land-based land-based facilities at the new airport of Paros, the rating and support of the Marble-sculptures School in Tinos, the reintroduction of the former status of popular administration in Pan-Hellenic Holy Institute of Tinos, support for rural and livestock production, with a view to reducing the cost of production and handling of products, support for the coastal fishing industry, with the exception of fishermen from the mandatory installation of electronic and satellite systems, as provided for by the European Regulation and the creation of fisheries protection areas, the extension of trademarks and tax offices. To conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out this: we are fully aware of the difficulties and the responsibilities that we have. Our struggle will be titanium, but in the end we will succeed. And we will succeed, because the soul of our people is also speaking with us. The first answer will come on Wednesday to the squares and streets of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr. Armalene. Mr. Mavrotas from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the brief speech I am going to make will focus on the government positions on education, as formulated by the Prime Minister's programme statements, but also by the Minister and the Deputy Minister - it is a happy juncture that is here this evening so late to listen to us. I will not go along with general considerations, but I shall refer to specific issues. Our main positions as Potami have, after all, been published for a long time and are on our site. First of all, there are a number of points on which we are converging with the positions of government, but there are many points to which we differ. The points we agree on are, in particular, pre-school, primary and secondary education, and are mainly focused on the key issues of higher education. We agree with the need for universal pre-school education, the upgrading of teachers, the view of high school as an autonomous level of education, and not as preparation for the introduction to universities, the possibility of certification for foreign language knowledge and the use of computers from the middle education, which was mentioned by the Deputy Minister, the strengthening of technical education, as well as others. We would like to insist on average education and primary schooling in some other areas, such as evaluation not with punishment but as an essential element of measuring the performance and evolution of the system, establishing and upgrading independent principles such as, for example, the Institute for Educational Policy, with a remarkable and not a party origin, the emphasis on school administration, decapitated by party mechanisms. Finally, we would like to insist on extending the institution of school standards, which is a part of which public education can be proud of. We disagree with the abolition of introductory tests in standards, because we believe that we should not be 'allergers' in concepts such as excellence. We may all be equal, but we're not the same. Besides, there are standards everywhere in the world, and they're with tests. As far as higher education is concerned, I shall begin with the only mention made by the Prime Minister of the abolition of the provisions on institution councils. The Prime Minister said that they are destroying the selfishness of universities. Evidently, however, some have misled him, since the members of the Foundation councils are actually elected, as is the case with the budgets, and they were elected three years ago with a great deal of participation. Participation in these elections was 79% in the Kapodistrian, 66% in the Metsovio Polytechnics and 77% in Aristotle. Institutional councils are generally decorated by international prestige scientists, among other things, that is, the foaming of what the Prime Minister has said - quite rightly - wants to repatriate. So the abolition of the institution councils and this message "speaking" that passes, gives them a signal that "principals, it is not worth the effort to deal with the Greek university" and that is not good in our opinion. Also, the institution councils were a window of society towards universities, as they participated in them in addition to universities, social bodies and institutions of local society and their abolition suggests that we want a university locked in its glass, without interacting with society. They are also a test of scrutiny of the decisions of the administration concerned, which will promote accountability and transparency, which are also essential. Generally, the Minister said that Law No.4009/2011, the Diamantopoulou law as we are used to calling it, was and is destructive. We consider it necessary to amend its identified failures, but we are not in favour of its abolition. The reintroduction to the 1982 framework law, as some SYRIZA officials are proclaiming, is a setback for us. Others were the needs in 1982, thirty - three years ago, other needs today. And the association with the European and global awareness of universities is necessary for us as a one-way path. We believe in the participation of students in decision-making, but this is done in an institutionalised way and not arbitrarily with self-determination groups which invade the congress or assembly of schools. Dynamic minorities operating in association must be replaced by the institutional representatives representing the student movement. Also, contrary to SYRIZA's consistent position, we are in favour of the revision of Article 16, so that non-governmental, non-profit universities can be set up, but with specific standards that will be under the control of the Quality Assurance Authority in education.(ii) like the public universities, which we clearly consider to be better than the current blurred setting with the various CECs and so on. The effects will be positive, not only in the economic but also in the intellectual balance of the country, because Greek scientists and students will remain in our country. And, incidentally, we think that the country's intellectual balance, that is, most exports from imports, is a greater risk than the deficit trade balance, which the Prime Minister himself recognised in his speech. On the same lines as limiting brain leakage and combating the major problem of unemployment, it is also the further interconnection of universities with production, as well as the strengthening of innovation with entrepreneurship. I mean, don't stay on the shelf. Given that most companies in Greece are small and without research and development, we believe that the further interconnection of universities with production will be mutually beneficial. We believe that the Greek university should break its ties with the past that holds it hostage and meet the current challenges to prepare for the future. The materials are there. We have seen how Greek teachers and students differ abroad, but we must also follow the correct recipe. To follow practices that will bring back Greek scientists and students and not practices that will expel others, not only because of economic conditions but also because of customer logic. As Mr Baltas said, we need to focus on the substance and get away from utilities. In fact, as my mentor at the polytechnic, the late Lefteris Papayannakis, is saying, we will finally get to the letters. In other words, degrees will reflect the actual content of the studies and will not be papers that are especially easily faded today. In conclusion, I would like to wish the new government every success, which must be understood in time of the criticalness of the country's situation. Let me stress that the river will not make a opposition not at all. It will be present to monitor and monitor effectively and constructively governmental work with responsibility, with concrete proposals and arguments and documentation, without unnecessary and vague politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr Kostas Zacharias has the floor from SYRIZA who is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u303	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 15 days after the elections, we must take a stand on the Government of Social Rescue, on the government that has emerged from the top of our parliamentary support, but above all it needs and seeks social support today and in the future, in order to move forward in line with the popular will with a strategic aim of social change. The Greek society supported and supported its hopes in SYRIZA. But SYRIZA is not a donor of dignity, as it was heard today. A broad social front is fighting and recovering dignity and reason, dismantling the suffocating neoliberal frameworks of the Memorandum commitments. In turn, the government has pledged that its primary concern is people's needs. These needs either concern rights forming the core of human existence or essential social goods, were ignored and brutally imprisoned by the Memorandum Governments which attacked the welfare state in particular by enforcing laws, acts of legislation, extremist neoliberal practices, but above all social automation, the coup d'état of social groups requiring social protection, the dismantling of the social protection networks themselves. This led us to the humanitarian crisis, outside every European acquis, in spite of the global economic oligarchy that is worthwhile demanding a zero social state. The so-called health reforms, which I want to deal with today, have led to the exclusive interest in accounting balances, while the doctrine of the ceiling on expenditure on ceilings of 6% of GDP for health expenditure which is currently running downwards, around 4.5% of GDP, has led to the under-funding and under-selling of public health bodies - also mentioned by my colleague, Syrian locally, for island regions - the depreciation and abandonment of the National Health System and the creation of conditions of health poverty and exclusion. Three million are insecure citizens and all the rest of them, that is to say, all of us, as appropriate, operatingly uninsured people who must make an increasingly own contribution to their health needs. Tragically, the lack of beds in intensive care units. We have six hundred, of which fifty are closed because of a lack of staff in the total of two thousand necessary, and we lead each year to the loss of two and a half thousand people. The dissolution of primary health care is complete, and the paralysis of emergency hospital care with the EKA is deprived of vehicles and crews. So lives are lost unjustly in the street. Daily conditions of social barbarism are mainly addressed by vulnerable social groups with the biggest problems and the poorest groups of the population. According to data from the National School of Public Health 33% of the cancer patients do not have access to a specialist doctor and 28% cannot take their medications. Thousands of people with disabilities and chronic conditions are subjected to taking part in their medication, thousands of children are unvaccinated. At the same time as previous governments uncovered people, they opened their doors to them a number of social solidarity structures, social medicine and social solidarity pharmacies, which, in addition to all others, managed to keep all patients free and free access to public health care. The programming commitments of our Prime Minister yesterday and the Deputy Minister of Health today, according to which day, month after month, a public free quality health system will be built for all citizens of the country, with tools to bring public funds back to the private sector, substantial support for human and logistical infrastructures and the democratic restructuring of the administration of the system, and to provide a solid basis and support for the permanent target of the Left, that is to say, the construction of a National Health System, in which all residents of the country will have free and equal access, regardless of insurance or other conditions. The government will very soon abolish the carpets, as the 'equivalent measures of inequality', i.e. the EUR 5 on access to health structures and EUR 1 per prescription. It will support primary and secondary health care, with full-time and full-time recruitment. I would remind the workers in these structures of the immediate needs of two and a half thousand doctors and five thousand nurses. It will abolish the “ESAN S.A.”, i.e. the invoicing company for health services in hospitals and financial management, which has recently been legislated in the context of public and private health competition and is supervised by German consultants. I hope that the Greek Ministry of Health will immediately cease cooperation with both GIZ and ACTION HEALTH as well as with the other troika and health residues. The Government will actively meet the needs of uninsured people in clinical and laboratory health services and free medication for those below the limits of extreme poverty. We keep the government's commitment to transparency in supplies and contracts in hospitals and to the discovery of the Deputy Minister of Finance for four-fold invoicing of hospital species compared to the Observatory's prices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Tolerance, Madam President. We are keeping the Health Minister's directive on direct management of the Centre for the Control and Prevention of Diseases, the CEDEFOP - which we have not managed for two and a half years in the previous parliamentary term to check and reveal the already existing judicial adventures, the other situations in which it has already taken place - and also, for the control of the Agency for the Control of Drugs, with unjustified debts to the prevention centres, the National Centre for Enterprises, the EMCDDA and the Transplant Organisation, EOM. To conclude, I would like to refer to the health conditions of those invisible people, migrants without papers, who either in detention centres, which must be immediately abolished either in police stations across Greece or in the streets of our cities and villages, remain without any health care. In particular, these prisoners - weak immigrants without papers, but also the criminals in prison hospitals experience torture and pain and need outside the social hospitals that are involved today, to bend together, government and Greek society to behave as human beings. Madam President, today we are the government MPs in the face of a historic challenge. With the radical Left in the Government of Social Rescue and us all with anguish and expectation, with love and tenderness, I would say, in a popular new government, we support its first steps and dreams, first government commitments, but the people and the movements on the streets always push it into higher conquests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u304	Thank you very much Mr. Zacharia. I call on the last speaker for tonight, Mr Constantine Damabilit from the ANELs to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Madam President. Here, then, my friends, begins a new time cycle that God’s provision has chosen my humility to be in this step that is of great honor. By doing an autopsy on this time principle of creation, on the new political path, one observes that the choice we have in the new government pattern was a one-way path. The average citizen, that is, had to choose or choose suicide, since he had tried more ahead the results of this chemistry, this recipe, or chose to fight. Choose the second. And he chose the second because he had the poem. Admittedly, many of the anti-population speakers were close to convincing me with their rhetoric cowardice, if there were no memory of the poem, the things that come to land us in reality. This is also apparent from the action of the former Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, to bring the elections before the negotiation, because he knew that just the knife, after the negotiation, would sink a little deeper into the bone. But if there is to be a social balance, since we are the alchemys of the new situation, there must definitely be justice. And justice doesn't have soft and hard. It's justice. People need to go to jail. We heard the President of the Independent Greeks talking about cases many people are locked in drawers. Many cases, too, were also in the office of the President of the Parliament. Many were the cases that from the lists of these infamous, they were stopped. This, if it is not a foundation, if we do not start from there the principle of creation, from justice or from our partners abroad, will be convinced that reform, change, but also the world, the average citizen that has chosen us. I have heard colleagues from the Opposition say that the government is not consistent. It reminded me very much of the film 'Look who's talking'. We had already had announcements, we had no application from the announcements, we had the same announcements and now those who did not apply what they announced - which I will accept was difficult, but which they announced - to teach that the Prime Minister and the government did not fulfil the election commitments. I could possibly accept it from someone who has not ruled. But with someone who has ruled and proved that he does not have the ability to apply it, it is a little difficult for me to comply. They also talked about a European reality. The European reality, unfortunately, is the reality that we are experiencing. We do not want European reality in this way. Along with European reality, we want balance. And it's how we make the bill. From top to bottom or from bottom up? Are we interested in balancing the numbers in a budgetary balance or ensuring decent living conditions from there and above to make the account? I understand that what I'm saying has an insurmountable romance and the realism that will frame it is tougher but we're trying this square logic that we have theoretically before we take up work, stalling it as much as possible, so that the body from the actions will stay the longer. In all the recipes - to get to both of us deviations after the shocks - there is one component called time. There can be no prescription without the ingredient called time. So there will be very great interest in this recipe, in this government alloy - which was surprising for many, and others have not expected it at all - on what time will the government bring issues which are red lines for us, which will also be the principle of disagreement and possibly, if there is no flexibility, be a break. They were heard by colleagues, as was the issue of Cyprus. It was heard by the Prime Minister. On this issue, even if it puts the bizonal community on the table, it finds us opposing. For us, Cyprus is a part of Hellenism. It is a corner of Hellenism, which they have not noticed. It was interesting, when I went to the occupied land, that there the Cypriots said to me "we consider brothers and sisters, you have forgotten us". In fact, one of the occupants tells me: "When you played in European, we had set it up here. We set a cup in the square of Nicosia from the semifinal, because for us the homeland had already done a bad job." So we cannot confine ourselves to this minute, the slightest feeling, when on the other hand there is an inactivity. I've experienced it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Nor can we accept the term as the Prime Minister has given it broadly on the subject of Macedonia. That's why we exist. The reason for our existence is for these issues. In fact, I think it is exemplary to see our behaviour, our groupings and our fellowships, because both the President and the other Members are not involved in other matters, but we are confined to what we are dealing with. In fact, in our diversity, we are trying to create coherence and harmony so that groupings emerge. But that's basically for us. Something was also said about the segregation of the Church - State. Let me remind you, my friends, that General Makrigiannis in his memorials said "the priests of the orthodox faith were not with us only with the rock, but with a rifle and a japan." So Orthodoxy and Hellenism are one thing. Anybody who tries to separate it will get a disability. If our situation is as we can see it at the moment, it is the strong protection prism given by the Orthodox community and it turns out that those who conquered it did not have time and could not change the composition, chemistry, culture and history, because the context of Orthodoxy did not allow it. To close - and I am the last speaker, Madam President, I have the margin, and I think I am not delaying anyone but my colleagues who are listening to me - I want to get to an issue that is my sector as well. This area is energy. We are talking about growth and we are leaving aside a very powerful column that can keep the building of the economy that is the energy field. In the energy field, we have the most serious issue of all, the issue of the exclusive economic zone, which, while the former Prime Minister announced, did not do. I have not heard the Prime Minister either, but I have not heard the current government stand up to this very serious issue. Even our beloved Mikis in a last letter he sent, particularly touched on the issue of the exclusive economic zone. We therefore have a very serious issue, which is not only a long-term objective, it also has short-term benefits. There is the bright example of Cyprus. I've said this from this point of view before. Cyprus, just with the signature bonuses, took 200 million. I think that's all we cut off from education and that's how education went into disability. The government which has passed this issue has been mismanaged. However, the points he left and they have health are not going to be levelled by us. Because, at the outset, what was reflected by the government is that it will change everything, it is good to think about it again. Because it is interesting on July 2nd in London where the land was presented south of Crete and the Ionian Sea, to see who they were. It's interesting to see that all the big players based in the investment energy track were there. This means that only by accident can this presence be characterised. Also, in order not to qualify either left-wing Greeks or independent Greeks, the ones who make the data, to say they are Norwegians and the data is more than well. Also, to say that Deutsche Bank has earned the profits around 427 billion. Deutsche Bank is an investment consultant for over 100 oil contracts. He'll need a liquefiation station. A liquefied station has a hundred thousand jobs. So, this very serious issue, if we had put it forward since the former Prime Minister announced it, we would be reaping the benefits today. Not to fall into the same mistakes. Let us keep the health elements in this case and add what the previous speakers have not done. It was also because it was heard that the economy, the geopolitics, had to be reminded that in many corners history has shaped the political and hence the economy through geopolitical. Right now, the timer is what it takes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Germany, by law, wants to stop nuclear reactors. There is an energy problem in Europe. At the moment Europe is calling for indigenous sources of energy. It's our chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr. Damavonite. With a slight deviation from 2:00, it's 2.15'...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u307	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Philly, I'll give you the floor. If you would allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to end the sitting properly, I would like to inform you that it is pending, as we have decided, for Mr Hadjisavvassavas Christos from the Golden Dawn who has replaced Mr Panayotaro, Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios from New Democracy who has replaced Mr Varvitsiotis and Mrs Manolakos, as well as Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Maximos Charakopoulos. These colleagues must be here in the morning, since they have accepted by way of derogation that they will speak tomorrow, because the list will start with them. I would also like to clarify something else, and I would ask that this be recorded in the Minutes and that the services transmit it to anyone, in any case, attempts to do so. There will be no registration, no registration of any Member who has not signed it, because not all the Members will speak anyway. Not all registered people have ever spoken. They always talk much less. However, it would be extremely unfair to accept the listing of non-attached colleagues. So, please respect this rule. Mr. Phil, here's the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u309	I would ask the Bureau to understand, Madam President, because the time has gone 2: 00 in the morning. So I suggest the meeting tomorrow begins at 10 a.m. instead of 9: 00. We'll be there for those who come on time sleepy, sleepy, and we'll wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u310	They've got a message for 9:00, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Comrade, you don't sound like you're talking out of a microphone. The truth is that both Mr. Metropoulou and the services have been notified about 9: 30. However, Mr Phile, since you and Mr Theocharis are the only parliamentary representatives you have remained and because it is true that the burden of the parliamentary representative is enormous, I understand the human limits. So if the House agrees, we can say that the sitting will start tomorrow morning at 10: 00. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u312	So we interrupt for tomorrow at 10: 00 and will be chaired by the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Alexis Metropoulou. For the formality of the matter, I would also like to inform you that at the beginning of the sitting the House will be informed of the ministers scheduled to speak. I thank all those who have remained and also the content of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-09-S1-commons.u313	With the consent of the House at no time 02.18 ́, the sitting for today Tuesday, 10 February 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House, is continuing the debate on the schedule statements.
