ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis, Member of Parliament, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u2	Reporting notice 14 May 2015. Report by SYRIZA MP Efstathios Panagoulis to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, entitled "The Pan-Hellenic Federation of Tritecna raises the question of the translations of students and the rights of third parties". Report by SYRIZA MP Efstathios Panagoulis to the Ministry of Finance, on the subject: "The Federation of Tobacco Workers of Greece reacts on the possibility of a further increase in the tax on tobacco products". Report by SYRIZA MP Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Ministries of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the subject: "Volos Fishing Club describes the devastating position of coastal fishing in Magnesia and calls for the re-establishment of the Port Authority of Agios Ioannis Pelion, the immediate start of the works of restoring Pelion Fishing and the immediate activation of fishing tourism. Report by SYRIZA MP Mr.Aikaterini Iglezi to the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the subject: "The Association of Active Citizens of the Municipality of Kallikrajia complains about the abolition of the Police Department of Nea Kallikrajia Halkidiki". Report by SYRIZA Deputy Mr Aikaterini Iglezi to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Association of Doctors of Hospitals and Health Centres of the Halkidiki Law raises the question of the abolition of unpaid work with additional on-calls until the payment of additional on-calls in previous years". Reference to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction of the Municipality of Megaron calls for the strengthening of the Police Department of Megaron, Nea Peramos and Kinettetas, the Insurance Department of Megaron and the Trochaia Megaron Department and the restoration of legality in the Roma camp in Vlycho Megaron area. Reference to the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights of the Member of the New Democracy, Mr.Ioannis Placiotakis, on the subject: "The Association of Officials of the Judiciary of Neapolitan Crete calls for increased staffing positions in the Naples Judiciary". Report by the Member of the New Democracy Mr Athanasios Boura to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "The Cultural and Exorbitant Association of Green Lofus Artemis protests the transfer of the Artemis Police Department, expressing the sense of residents' insecurity". Report by the Member of the Parliamentary Group, Potami Aikaterini Marcos, to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “The Board of Directors of the Foundation “Asylum of the Child”, calls for the reintegration of Asylum into the special schools that are entitled to free transfer of children to it.” Report by Mr.Georgios Lambroulis, Athanasios Bardalis and George Marinos to the Ministry of Finance, on the subject: "The officials of the Offices Administrators of the Regional Public Property Department of Thessaly - Central Greece requesting the amendment of the M.D. In the case of the public property and the restoration of the operation of autonomous organic units in each county.’ Report by the Member of the New Democracy Mr Athanasios Bura to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "The Mayor of Saronikos calls for the merger of Police Departments of Anavyssos and Kalivia, along with the border security departments and the Saronida Police Station in a single Saronic Police Department." Report by Angelos Nikolaopoulos to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Welfare, on the subject: "The Centre for Social Welfare of Western Greece (CCI) points out the need for financial, staffing and organisational support from the Centre and requests a joint meeting of its representatives with the political leadership concerned". Report by PASOK MP Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The Highest Confederation of Polytectures of Greece presents a press release on the unapplicable number. Regulation (EC) No 1251/2015 of the Council of State (State Council) on relocations in respect of multiples and children of luxuries and appeals to the European Court of Justice’. Report by SYRIZA MP Georgios Panzas to the Ministry of Health, on "Mayor Rafina - Pikermiou is requesting the 24-hour operation of the Rafina Health Centre". Report by SYRIZA MP Mr.Ioannis Michelogannakis to the Ministry of Health, on the subject: "Mayor Vianno is calling for the creation of an EKAB station in the Municipality of Vianno". Report by SYRIZA MEP Mr Ioannis Micheloganakis to the Ministry of Health, on the subject: "The Mayor of Vianno is calling for the administration of the Centre for Health of Upper Vianno, in which the shortcomings of medical and other staff are mentioned, necessary for the proper functioning of the Health Centre". Report by SYRIZA MP Mr.Ioannis Micheloganakis to the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "The Mayor of Vianno is calling for the reopening of the Vianno Peace Court, which sets out all those elements which justify the request for the reopening of the Peace Court." Report by the Member of the New Democracy Mr Christos Dimas to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the subject: “The Association of Gastronomy Professionals and Symposium of Corinthia, points out the need to provide for more favourable regulation of liabilities to PPC”. Reference by the Member of the New Democracy Mr Christos Dimas to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Association of Baby Nursemen in Greece calls for special protection of maternity in working teachers with fixed-term contracts in municipalities and legal entities governed by public law of OTAs to have the right to parental leave and to fulfil the minimum feedback obligations of their children." Report by Members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, on the situation in the former Yugoslavia. Athanasios Bardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Students of trained EPAs - IEK Macedonia Applicants for the abolition of Law 4186/2013, in which schools of tourism are led to closure and measures to upgrade their studies and to meet the needs of schools in infrastructure and materials.” Report by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, Member of the Greek Parliament, to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Citizens present proposals for the development of the former industrial area of Drapetsonas". Report by PASOK MP Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, on the subject: "Teacher sets out his views on the amendment of articles of Law 3848/2010 on the selection of primary and secondary education staff". Report by SYRIZA MP Mr Ioannis Michelogannakis to the Ministry of National Defence, on the subject: "The Panhellenic Federation of Military Associations sets out its proposals for the pension of the Armed Forces, which require urgent and immediate treatment by the relevant bodies and for which zero or minimum financial costs are required." Report by SYRIZA MP Ioannis Micheloganakis to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Heraklion Labour Centre complains about the annulment of the local collective labour contract with the employers' body of tourist bus owners and calls for the state's direct intervention to protect workers in tourist buses, while stressing the necessity of the collective labour agreements". Report by the New Democracy MP Christos Dimas to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, on the subject: "The Association of Foreign Language Entities of Corinthia raises objections concerning the impact of the multi-branded education project: "Urgent measures for primary, secondary and tertiary education" in their industry".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I shall make a request to both the honourable ministers and my fellow Members for their time. First we will discuss the first question under number 184/5-2015 of the first cycle of the MP Achaias coalition of the Radical Left, Maria Kanellepoulou, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the need to redesign the exploitation of the former Ministry of Culture and Sport's building stock. Mrs Kanellopoulou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Mrs. Kanellepoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. As has been pointed out many times in the past, the former Ministry of Culture and Sport is facing a strong housing problem, which is why it has been proposed that the services be transformed from the historical building of the Bubulinas Street to various other buildings. We'd heard of Kerani buildings, Tsausoglu, etc. At the same time, of course, the previous Memorandum of Understanding through the TIAD - which, in our opinion, is nothing but a vehicle for the application of public property - proceeded to the scandalous divestment of twenty-eight buildings owned by the Greek State, including the Bubulinas Street building. More specifically, this building was included in Portfolio I of the divestment process and finally passed on to the ownership of the PANGAIA SAAP, a subsidiary of the National Bank, for a total price, together with the remaining EUR 115,5 million. Subsequently, the building using the sales method and please back was rented by the State for a period of twenty years with guaranteed rental performance, while at the same time the public was charged with the insurance, maintenance costs and retained the right to re-market options after the end of the 20th year to the future structured market values. At the same time, according to the most moderate calculations, only in Athens the former Ministry of Culture of Sports is treated as the owner of three hundred forty-three properties, of which a hundred forty-four are located in Plaka, sixty in Anafiotika, fifty-five in Keramikos, eighty-four in Plato Academy. From data published in the press as early as 2010- "KATHMERINI" 17-8-2010- 47.1% of these buildings in the area of Athens and Piraeus are useful, while 31.5% has been allocated to institutions and institutions and the rest are empty plots and buildings. Minister, given the fact that the former Ministry of Culture and Sport is one of the largest property owners of the Greek State, what is the design for the real use of this property, for the benefit of the State and for covering the housing and other needs of the Ministry of Culture? Do you intend to terminate the LEIDE contract between the former Ministry of Culture and Sport? Will your Ministry proceed immediately to a renegotiation of the rent paid to the "PANGAYP"? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Canellepoulou. The Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Nikolaos Xydakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for giving me this opportunity to explain very briefly the situation of the real estate, on the occasion of the well-known transfer of real estate to the GOI and from the GOI to the ownership of foreign funds by means of sales or by means of sales and resale. Let me tell you first of all about the building at 22 Bubulinas Street, the historic building, which has marked the memories of the anti-digit race, where the security buildings were.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u8	It was next door.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u9	Not that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u10	No, it wasn't that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u11	Are you sure? And it was the roof.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u12	No, it was next door.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u13	Okay, it doesn't matter. This building belonged to the Communist Party of Greece. It was sold to the Greek State and last year it was included in a package, along with other public buildings large, the Ministry of Education, the new, former Olympic property, the Horn Building you mentioned, the Ministry of Health and sold all these packages to two funds, on Eurobank's "LAMDA Estate" fund, which is owned by Canadians now and in "PANGIA" which now controls a multinational fund. That is why the public now pays 49,100 euros a month for the next twenty years and is responsible for its light maintenance and insurance. In the 20th year he has the option, the option to buy it back at the time. A rough calculation can show you that in this 20th year, the public will spend about 12 million to rent this building, which is a nice, but small building, which cannot house the services of the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture is housed in thirteen buildings in the region, here in Athens. It pays about 3 million a year in rent. We cannot, however, insult the sale of HIDED as the Ministry of Culture, because all the properties and thirty-four of Plaka in two packages have come to the absolute ownership and predominance of HIDED. It has nothing to do with the Ministry of Culture. He has the HIAD, which is supervised by the Ministry of Finance. Any insult or rental renegotiation must be made by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Culture has no right over these properties anymore. It only has moral and political potential. I recognize that. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. As far as exploitation is concerned, I can tell you very briefly about these properties you mentioned, that a lot of them are in a ruined state, while many of them require archaeological research and rehabilitation, which is what does not allow them to be carried out by the very conspicuous finances of the Greek state at this time. There is a program of evictions from arbitrary occupations, as well as a program to stop scandalous real estate concessions by the Ministry of Culture to private beneficiaries. It is mostly clubs, which have no reason to be housed in the luxury properties of Plaka. Also, there is a thought of a transfer of services from the Ministry of Culture to larger buildings, to have economies of scale. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Kanellepoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Minister, for the answer. I think we are discussing a very serious issue today, such as the renegotiation and cancellation of the relevant contract, where it concerns your ministry, which, as I understand it, is only political. That is the only possibility for you to have a political intervention. However, the control of the dossier in question seems to me to be quite enlightening. For I would remind you, Minister, that the Court of Auditors' Z' Climax had also been consulted negatively, because, in particular, the principles of transparency and impartiality had been violated, because at all stages of the procedure - if possible, that is to say, as we conclude - they participated as consultants of banks in which banks, national and Eurobank, have finally passed the ownership of the twenty-eight realms, between them and the Ministry on the Bubulinas Street. In this critical period in which the country is going, the fact that the extremely underfunded Ministry of Culture is called on to pay an average of about EUR 600,000 per annum for twenty years - those EUR 12 million that you have also said - for the use of a building, which was owned until some time ago, I think it is a matter of central political direction. We cannot, on the one hand, target economies of scale and, on the other, pay such high rents. On the issue of the rest of the Ministry's real estate, which is considered one of the most privileged ministries, I think there should be your own interventions very substantial. I would remind you, Minister, because you yourself have said that dozens of small groups of artists do not have a place to perform a small performance or rehearsals, such as small bands of music, small groups of theatre or even - still painters and sculptors. There are no spaces for these people to be housed. I think that the minimum that the Ministry of Culture could contribute to this explosion of artistic production by young people, despite the difficult economic environment, would be the least possible. I believe that some misconduct, Mr Minister, must be dealt with in two directions. First of all, we must prove this community for Caesar's wife, who must be honest. Secondly, we must also contribute to what is defined as the 'productive reconstruction of the country' with all the powers we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u16	Minister, he raised fine issues, interesting and self-evident, for the support of artistic creation. Please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u17	I thank my colleague. It gives me the opportunity to talk about some plans by the Ministry of Culture, which are not exactly publicly announced, but with great pleasure I will share them with colleagues in the Chamber. In fact, one of the thoughts we have in making use of real estate and not only of small inappropriate houses for artistic uses of artistic arts, but for other places, our own or concessions, is the plan to set up a programme which will provide infrastructure and publicity to groups of artists and creators, what we generally call artistic creation and creative industry, so that, firstly, they have infrastructure and publicity, which is about half the cost of producing any such project and, secondly, from there, create clones,'spin-off', with various actions, either productive for commercial exploitation or purely artistic lines. We must say, however, about what is said about the infinite property of the Ministry of Culture, that most of them, which are in Plaka and create this 'buffer zone', the cushion belt, around the unprecedented monument of Acropolis, can be given for limited use. Most of them are small, they do not accept any alteration of their nature, they are all on archaeological substrate and for those that have not completed the archaeological and restoration work, their restoration work is extremely time-consuming and costly. So, to a large extent, it is a building stock, which wants a great deal of investment both in time and in money, so that it can pay off. In fact, the return cannot be the profitable return we imagine from real estate exploitation. It is more a cultural building stock and less a commercial profitable building stock. This does not, however, lead us to rest and not to look at reforming the operational housing of the Ministry's services. This is another issue that can be made a very household. There is a lot of room. There is a fragmentation of the Ministry in many buildings, which also lead to administrative malfunctions sometimes and mainly to great expense in rent, maintenance costs, functional, etc. That is why - let us say this - a plan or other trick in the sale of public property we should have here and the Minister of Finance, because the TIADE is not under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture and other Ministries obeyed the central planning, built the property packages. I couldn't find out what the sale price of the Bubulinna building was because they're packages. They're amazing legal structures that erase every trace. Nor do I think that, in a first investigation we have done, it is very easy to revoke these markets. I don't think it's impossible, but it's too hard. The money received from the Greek state went directly to the debt service account. I'm going to dare a comparison. It is right, it is imperative, that we look for the way in which the sale took place, but I fear that in some cases a member has cut us off and will not grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u18	We thank the Minister and Mrs Kanellopoulou. Mrs. Katsavria, are you ready or may I suggest Mr. Javarra's question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u19	Let Mr. Javarras take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u20	The third question, then, with number 162/28-4-2015, will be discussed in the second time question by the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the payment of 1.5% of the gross revenues of television stations for the production of films.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Konstantopoulos, your 11th Question No 131/21-4-2015 on the Second Cycle to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the launch of the "Resurrection at House" programme under the Partnership Agreement (EPC - new ESDP) 2014-2020 and the relaunch of the building activity, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. Because I've seen you here, I'm telling you, to indulge in other creative activities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u24	You want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I would like to stress that this is the third time that the Minister's answer to my current question, which concerns thirty thousand citizens and the concern they currently have, in fact, whether or not the programme will proceed. Since 20 April, my question was tabled, we expected the Minister to come and answer three times and he has not done so. I'm sorry. The conclusions are yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u26	It will be proposed, Mr Constantopoulos, and will be discussed - I believe - at the next meeting. Here, Mr Javarra, you have the floor for developing your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with my question I raise an issue concerning the state's attempt to strengthen film creation over time. And that, for two reasons: firstly, because film work is a cultural creation, it is a cultural asset, but secondly, because through its circulation and distribution it creates the conditions for disseminating messages, which cover many fields, not only of artistic and economic life as well as of general economic life. The blooming, in the 1980s, of the so-called national cinemas, including the great glory of the Greek cinema, has caused precisely the belief that the state should support the production of films economically and morally, because through this creation the benefits of this creation are distributed to the economic level, since it is known that many works create the sense and need to browse people from all over the world, such as "The Mandolin of Captain Corelli" in Kefalonia or Skopelos, not to mention names and titles. So the wise legislator with Mr. 3905/1910, where it is recognised that the strengthening of cinematographic development is a primary, primary obligation of the State, it also creates the conditions for addressing and resolving the problem of funding cinematographic creation. In Article 8, therefore, audiovisual media service providers, i.e. channels and other undertakings, have an obligation of 1.5%, the ERT of turnover, and the other private channels of advertising revenues, to invest in film works. On 20 August 2012, the implementing ministerial decision was adopted and, unfortunately, to date, private channels, possibly - and possibly - because they also use immunity, with which they have been equipped, refuse to implement this provision. So the question is rightly raised what the Ministry will do. Will it take steps to finally implement this provision and respond to the specific tasks of the legislator? What will happen in future on the financial support for film production?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Here, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, Mr Javarra, I am pleased that you are asking this question, because you have served as Minister of Culture, you have adopted this implementing ministerial decision of 29 August 2012. But you should have told us too, because they have never been assured of that amount. I believe that you will be a warm man to the present government, which has inherited this immunity regime for private television stations, for disciples to the democratic state. You yourself will be a brother, at least as far as we are all concerned here in this Chamber, for the collection of 1.5% in favour of film production. I would also remind you that two months later, at a meeting with the protesting stations, you promised that you would suspend the validity of the ministerial decision orally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u30	No, you're wrongly informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u31	Two minutes, Mr. Javarra. It's in the mail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u32	I'll explain it to you in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u33	Good, I'm so glad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Javarras will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u35	And you said he needed further legal treatment. Our legal advisers assure us that there is no need for any further legal treatment, not only perhaps a clarification circular by the Ministry of Finance about what a special duty-free reserve means. They're counting on it and they're refusing to pay. There's a refusal to pay and a refusal to comply with the laws. Our intention is to make progress, firstly, in this clarification - a simple clarification, because we believe that the law is clear - and then in a statement of the debts to the Treasury. I'll wait for your support.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Javarra, the Minister answered you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u37	Obviously, Minister, you are not well informed. I, therefore, do not like to start my speech with the first person, but I am obliged to answer you, since you have caused me very nice and democratically - I have indeed received protests and pressures, which I can say might be unbearable if someone else were in my position. The arguments I have heard from the representatives of the channels were a joke, because it is clear that the legislator's will to force these businesses to pay or invest in the production of films 1.5% of advertising revenues. The representatives, then, in the debate you are talking about, said that these companies are injuring and making a steep breach of their obligation, they claimed to me that this amount cannot be paid, because, furthermore, the legislator organises the technical process of the obligation, by requiring these companies to hold a special reserve in their balance sheet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u38	Unnecessary, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u39	Unnecessary, as you say. However, it is clear that the legislator there has been technically expressed, as they say, because it is not possible for the technical handling of an obligation to continue with the content of the obligation. So the obligation here is to pay 1.5% of the revenue and not the profits. Profits have been involved since - as I said - artificially the legislator is talking about a tax-free reserve. It could say - and that means - and use the phrase 'in a special account'. However, this does not have to be done - although I have at some point accepted that this issue exists - no, but no improvement in the wording, because it is a question of interpretation. And the interpretation clearly in this case leads to the imposition of the specific consequences on undertakings, which so far avoid fulfilling their obligation. I never consented to such a violation of the law. In fact, if you are informed by the officials who at the time had taken this matter, you will see that the mandate I gave is to be assured. Unfortunately, so far I have not seen anything like this. On the contrary, in one of the next ministers, I saw what you are saying, which, of course, you are convincing to me, namely Mrs Kazakhakis's communication - the letter you will obviously say - which says that an amendment to the legislation should be made. No, this isn't about me. That's about someone else. In any case, however, I think - and here I am in solidarity with you - that since your Government has indeed lifted the flag of dissolution of the phenomenon of interlocutory, the people who insist not to apply the law and the last card of figs to say that the law does not concern them. The law concerns them. The purpose of this House's obligation in this case is indeed the aim of strengthening culture and indeed, in the most basic, the most crucial, most neural aspects of cultural creation, which is cinema. Cinemas nowadays, in the days of a terrible economic crisis, are affected not only by failures in government, but also by objective data. That is why you are obliged - and I support not only this fulfilment of your obligation as Minister - to exhaust all the margins you have in order to obtain this amount. Besides, as you will have seen, the then ERT, now NERIT and one of the subscription channels fully meet their obligation. They don't have lawyers, so they can understand more clearly every particular arrangement? In other words, are there only those who are wicked - and, obviously, are those who, in the name of private television, have managed to achieve the non-implementation of the law? In any case, it is fair to impose such rules. You know why? You're not a lawman. You're not entitled to know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u40	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u41	Because Article 15 of the Constitution refers to paragraph 2 and states that television is under the direct control of the State. Do you know why? Because the use of television frequencies is a public service. These private channels, without any material in return, have been premiumed using these specific state services, i.e., exercise, by the State, the exploitation of these frequencies. So they owe this amount. All the rest are prophecies in sin.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty-six students and four teachers from the 2nd Municipal School of Katerini. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Javarra, in essence, you have called in my place. Thank you for that. You said about the political thinking, which I share and is the reasoning of the present government: no transfer of public property to private television stations. No gap in the application of the legislation in force. Everyone is equal to the law - and the canalarchs. But I would like to make a comment: the law was passed in 2010. In August 2012, the Ministerial Decision was adopted by you, which implemented the law. In other words, we already have two years' delay in implementing the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u44	It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u45	Sure. But you may be due to the fact that since August...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u46	I became Minister in June. In August...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u47	From August 2012 until the elections that the government changed, no one did. Did you ever get any revenue?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u48	I've confirmed. Look at it. I've made sure of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u49	So now, you are now indirectly coming to criticise the successors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u50	I am strengthening you. Do it. I expect you to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u51	He puts all his powers and legal opinions at the disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u52	It is a central political position of the government. The battle has started to implement the law and only the performance of what is due and part of the public property, which they receive, is returned where they are due. 1.5% in favour of cinema production - which is not money they have to give as money, but invest in film production, become producers and make them available for the advertising of films - is a commitment of the present government. Soon, you will see the first statement of revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. We enter the debate of the first under No. 153/28-4-2015 topical question of the second-round question of MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysolas Katsavria - Sioropoulou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the crisis in the field of the book. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the disastrous policies of the Memorandum implemented by previous governments strongly affected culture. More specifically, the situation in the book is indicative of depreciation. The National Book Centre, the most important body for planning and implementing a national policy to strengthen and promote the book, is impoverished. It was abolished two years ago violently, with a sudden, opaque and indiscriminate decision. The adequacy and know-how of the CSRBI in its twenty years of operation in the field of books remains untapped. The issue of the abolition and future of the EMCDDA has dealt with dozens of book operators meetings. Furthermore, the abolition of the single book price, the law protecting the book as a cultural asset from the competitive market for the consumer - reading public, hit the quality non-commercial book and led to unfair competition. The book market is described by the scandalously prepared and paid by the Greek public report of the OECD as quite central, since 18% of publishers publish 77% of monopolistic securities, with a high risk of business and intense insecurity. In such a market, the abolition of this protective provision causes economic suffocation to small and medium-sized publishing houses and to bookshops, which in future will have an impact on the thematic range, pluralism, the quality of publishing titles and their price. Finally, libraries could be an focus of increased contact between local societies and the book. However, their abandonment from the state does not allow them to perform their role. Municipal, school, academic and public libraries are in service or are incomplete in the absence of personnel, building infrastructure and resources. In the municipal libraries, this is particularly pronounced as the cuts in resources and the accumulated financial problems that they face do not allow the LAGs to deal with them as a priority. In view of the above, is the Minister asking: What are his intentions regarding the future of the National Book Centre? It intends to restore the single book price, as it was the case with n. 2557/1997? What action does it intend to take to strengthen libraries, public, municipal, school and academics? In particular, for municipal libraries, is it geared towards establishing a relevant line that TETs will make use of the power to strengthen municipal libraries so that they are not neglected by the relevant administrations of the TATs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Katsavria. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. You are giving me the opportunity to repeat something I have said many times since the beginning of taking up government duties. The reintroduction of the single book price is a government commitment, it is a matter of time. But it's not my responsibility. The Ministry of Culture has not abolished the single book price, so I cannot bring it back. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development. For our part, we have made a legal contribution, in other words - an improved proposal we can make - to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to Mr George Stathakis, who has also publicly said to us that he is his first priority. In the first bill to be brought by his ministry, he will submit it to the Chamber for discussion, you will be present, and I hope you will be happy to vote in favour of it. The single book price is back and even improved. I do not even want to go into the essence of the debate on how criminal it was withdrew and how the whole of Europe is regulated, except in Great Britain, which has broken up all the small bookshops. In Britain there are only two chains and the small bookshop and the small publisher have disappeared. In the large European countries, the single market has been in place since the end of the 19th century and has been institutionalised in the modern legal framework for the past twenty, thirty, forty, fifty years. We have excluded ourselves from European culture by this withdrawal of the law. With regard to libraries, which you are saying is not exactly my responsibility, because public libraries are the responsibility of the Minister of Education. I am the Deputy Minister of Culture. We have absolutely no competence, but I can tell you a few things, because these must be discussed and your question is very interesting. The resources available for public libraries are very weak and after 2014 tend to zero. I can tell you that for 2014 the National Library was sponsored with the sum of EUR 646 500 and forty-five public libraries with EUR 624 000. For 2015, the year under review, the allocation of appropriations is as follows: the National Library EUR 244,238 and the forty-five public 291,836 euros. I can't even comment on those numbers. It is a number that barely meets the irrational needs, not the constant needs. They can't buy cleaning goods. That's what we've received. That is what we will try to fix. As far as the National Book Centre is concerned, I will tell you that the areas with which the National Book Centre was concerned in recent years ended up to three at this stage. Firstly, the organisation of the Thessaloniki International Book Fair, which has been held in recent years with the support of the NRP, i.e. Community funds. This year, he did not have an NSRF and was in great financial difficulties. I would like to say to you, in other words, that there has been no viability study in the past few years. There was a temporary resource, because the Community resource from the NSRF is temporary, has been exhausted, and now the institution remains to be redesigned as a whole. Secondly, another activity was the biblionet.gr base, which, in my first assessment, should be a service that should be maintained by a National Library in the context of national literature. At the moment we have at least two independent bases, the National Book Centre, i.e. biblionet.gr, and the database, the commercial database, maintained by UCLAF, and we do not have an integrated, publicly accessible, national literature. There's a deformity, an asymmetrical malfunction here. And I don't think we could constantly establish independent agencies to build a service. There's a National Library. In my opinion, he should go there. The third activity, in which the National Book Centre was engaged, is the programs of gratitude. I think that's what a ministry agency can do with it too. After all, in our thoughts, it is firstly the reorganization, the change in the administration and structure of the supreme Hellenic Foundation for Culture, on the one hand, and, on the other, as far as the Centre for Books, which you say, is involved in the overcoming structure of the Foundation for Culture. The first thoughts for a more operational response to the political book are to have a lively, well-managed - there are already executives in the Ministry - the Ministry's service. We will look at it, see if this can be done for an independent legal person, such as the CSR. Let us see and see how much money has been spent over the years, what work is and how and how many of the objects of his work in the past years can or have been covered by other public bodies, we have had overlapping. This design is not over, very soon you'll be done and you'll find out. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Katsavria has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am well aware of the problems of libraries and books in Greece. I have served local government as a member of libraries for many years, and I am truly sorry that we still have these problems that concern us so many years. The possibility of accessing the book is not luxury, we know it well, but every citizen's right and the obligation of the state. Speaking of the book it is necessary to implement a national policy that strengthens and promotes the book with innovative actions and programmes. The National Book Centre, as I mentioned in my question, has accumulated valuable knowledge and experience to be exploited. The need for an autonomous national body for the book requires the establishment of the EMCDDA as a valuable tool for cultural development, after reviewing its role and the pathogens of the past. EKEBI will bring closer authors and readers, students and books, with all its already successful activities, book fairs, campaigns, new literary festivals, biblionet.gr, as you quite rightly said, digital book observatory, maintaining and renewing archives and collections, "Small Reader" and many others. It will be able to collaborate with schools and libraries, with universities, institutions and organizations, with Local Government, as well as cultural associations across the territory to promote the new national book policy. The abolition of the single book price, according to the OECD scandalous toolbox, from the previous government, on the grounds that it will reduce the price of the book, is causing severe economic pressure on small publishing houses, as you quite rightly said, and on small bookshops, which would have a catastrophic effect on the quality book. Even if one ignores the fair reactions between the publishing world and the people working in the book field, a reading of the relevant toolbox shows very clearly that the abolition of the single price was moving in the wrong direction. In a market structured by the way I described, the abolition of the protectionist provision of the single price equates the book with any other consumer product and leads to an opening up to unfair competition. The publisher limits its turnover to environments capable of supporting it, especially in today's economic reality, and the neighborhood bookstore is unable to compete with large chains of bookstore. The writer powerless is forced to follow the recipes of the intimate reading. It is necessary, Minister, to return immediately the single book price to ensure the sustainability of small publishing houses and bookshops and to establish healthy competition conditions. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The abolition of the single price does not guarantee a cheaper book. On the contrary, the application of the provision has led to high prices being maintained. It is therefore necessary to return immediately the single book price, for which a great deal of struggle has been given, as it will ensure that such publishing and writing wealth will not be left out of the market. Finally, Minister, we are interested in listening to the Government's proposals for libraries, public, municipal, academic and school. There is a blurred landscape here and we will have to find a formula of cooperation between all these libraries. The libraries are in vain. The vast majority of them are dehumidated by staff, logistics and resources. Many of them have been closed, even though they have rich and remarkable collections, while others are failing without playing their part in local communities. I do not underestimate the difficult budgetary situation that we have received from the governments of the memorandums. But our own government cannot put culture on a second footing. The vision of social emancipation, our vision, cannot be served without the development of culture and education. The political will, the collective action and the cooperation of all the parties involved - here we can say all the ministries involved, in order to find a common formula for the operation of libraries in a single body - can be the starting point for dealing with the crisis in the book. So I look forward to hearing your proposals with great interest and I would be very pleased to be helpful in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, would you like to add something to what you have been interested in in your prototype?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u60	Yes, Mr President, thank you. We have made a public commitment, and I myself, for one thing that I do not introduce into this House, for the single price of books, but is also a commitment of Mr Stathakis. That will be done very soon. We will be here and we will be discussing it, and I hope that the whole House will vote for it, even those who voted for it with the regulations of the famous OECD toolbox, because they will be convinced that this arrangement is pushing the whole book industry, and publishers and bookmakers, to the detriment of the Greek reading public, namely the Greek people. There was no sense, no benefit to anyone. One - maybe two big bookshops in Athens benefit from this situation, extracting huge discounts from publishers, who are forced to put fictitiously high prices. It has led to a complete deformation and market destruction and, in addition, to a loss of revenue by the State. There is no financial benefit, there is nothing, no spiritual benefit, no social benefit, no political benefit, no budget. There's only one disaster. We see a formal application of blind neoliberalism that benefits no one, but harms everyone. As far as libraries are concerned, I will repeat that I am not the Minister responsible for this government to develop policy on public libraries. It is typical competence of the Minister of Education, of course we have some approaches, we have partnerships. As far as municipal libraries are concerned, it is an old, painful story, which is up to patriotism, the passion of local authorities and - we should also think about this - in the love with which local societies surround municipal libraries. There are municipal libraries hosting some of the most valuable documentation collections of modern Hellenism. They seek the love of people who live around them. I can tell you many examples, the KORAH Library in Chios, which is a monument of neo-Greek enlightenment but also in many other places, in Yannina, in Tripoli, in Ermoupolis. Another example is Heraklion's Violence Library. He's an ark. Vikella contains invaluable, uniquely in the world Venetian and Ottoman archives, which Turks do not have. I would like to tell you that it is not always up to the Minister's will in the central government, but also by many regional institutions, particularly a trained people, who have learned to love and support his lively history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, my colleague. The fifth under No. 180/4-5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Vasiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the complaint of SYRIZA when it was opposition to the regulation tabled by Amendment 1251/67/7-3 2014 and joined the n. 4250/26-3-2014 of the Ministry of Administrative Reform and concerned fines of 1.2 billion will not be discussed and deleted. The third question with number 191/5-2015 is the first-round question of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health on the situation in the hospital unit "Amalia Fleming". The Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, will answer. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, thank you. The problem of the operation of the ‘Amalia Fleming’ Hospital, on the basis of the developments that have taken place in previous years - that is, the availability, the abolition of clinics, the underfunding, as in all hospitals, in this case - and the merger with ‘Sisminogolia’, has brought it to a limit point of operation. According to data, until September 2013, the hospital had two hundred seventy beds and sixty-eight employees of all specialties, doctors, nurses, auxiliary staff, assistant and administrative staff. Two hundred and ninety-two workers were made available, while several more were retired during this period. These positions, of course, have not been filled. Today the hospital has thirty - nine beds and three hundred twenty - two employees. A characteristic of the problems - for example, I will mention some - caused by the lack of staff is that, firstly, there are nurses who have not taken the days they are entitled to, which, from what the workers themselves say, amount to more than seventy days. Deficiencies are, of course, becoming more evident, due to staff shortages, during hospital invention days. So, for example, the Pathological Clinic is supported, on a on-call day, a fairly large attendance of patients, by a nurse who should also support other hospital departments. In addition, the deficiencies in injured persons pose a problem in the transport of patients and their waiting for examinations to be carried out for a series of hours. One of the two wings of the hospital was closed, the “Bobola” Wing was called, where the Pulmonary Clinic was housed, which was transferred to the Oncology Hospital. Urology was closed with parallel closure of the external medical and surgical services, as well as the Pathological Anatomic and Cytological Laboratory, where of course they also need and are needed in this hospital to carry out their respective examinations. So these workshops were transferred to the 'Siminoglio'. So is the Ophthalmic Clinical. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President. At this point we must also say that, with the developments that have been promoted in the previous period and in the hospital and the merger of the two hospitals, i.e. "Amalia Fleming" with "Sisminoglio", huge is the problem in the peritoneal cleansing unit, which also belongs to the Nephrologic Department, whose function has been suspended. The problem there is henceforth a lack of staff and nurses. A shift doesn't work. Imagine what is going on in an acute incident, as it is recorded and reported by the workers themselves, who cannot respond because of the qualified object of nurses and nurses who should support such a unit, the disease should be transported, with any risks that this poses, to another hospital. There, of course, as a whole, we're talking about the unsafe operation of the hospital. Also, there is the problem with the pharmacy, with the removal or if you want with the transfer of the pharmacy. They are forced to order every three days medicines from the "Fleming Hospital" in "Sismanoglio" and, as doctors and nurses themselves say, for laboratory tests, reactors, etc. They must also be able to carry out transport by their own means, with their own cars, in order to make them more direct or simply direct - so as to say so - to meet the needs of the patients. I shall close, Mr President, with the questions. We ask the Minister what will happen with Amalia Fleming Hospital, in the direction of reopening the thirty-one beds that closed about a year and a half ago, developing the hospital further, to be adequately financed so that it can respond to increased needs. Also, tell us what will happen, what moves the government will make, what steps will the Ministry take to recruit the relevant staff, doctors, nurses and other staff, which are necessary for the operation of the hospital, but with full working and insurance rights. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Andreas Xanthos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my fellow Member, who is once again returning to public care issues. The previous period, during the Memorandum, there were indeed very significant changes in the hospital landscape, especially at Attica. Eight hospitals were shut down partly or in full and public beds were reduced by six hundred. The beds are open at the public hospitals in Lefkanopedio. Especially for the ‘Amalia Flemming Hospital’, which was a hospital fighter and efficient in the functioning of the health system, this hospital suffered a serious amputation mainly in human resources. The plan was to suffer much more amputation in sections too. However, with an excellent struggle given by hospital workers with multi-formal mobilisations, with the support of local society, they have in practice managed to freeze some routed segments, suspend the application of others and ensure an elementaryly decent operation today for the hospital, but in which more than 50% of its human potential has actually been reduced. The beds have decreased too, of course. He's involved in the on-call system. The operating beds on the basis of the service's data are a hundred twenty-four, which is less developed than you have pointed out. We also have three hundred nineteen workers, while, as you rightly pointed out, they were more than seven hundred previously. This case, my dear colleague, was part of a more general political project, which said that we are shrinking public structures, depreciating public care, creating a vital space for the development of the private business, transferring the cost of care to the citizen and creating an increasingly passive privatisation of the system. That was the political project that was implemented. We have committed ourselves that this case is over for us. Nor is there any intention of further mergers and abolitions of departments, clinics and hospitals, nor is there any intention of making some kind of commitments made only to provide data to the Troika and the assessments made by the Task Force in Greece, to create a huge pool of available resources at the time and the Ministry of Health is true that it had taken the lead in this. What we are saying is: no further deterioration. We are fighting today to ensure the functioning clinics and departments. This is very critical and difficult, let me say, because the disorganisation, the under-management of the system and its under-finance is horrifying. We are in agreement with the Workers' Association of the ‘Amalia Flemming’ Hospital. There have been discussions in both the Ministry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Already, there has been a first move to restore three workers, as requested by the club. The association considers that the minimum direct aid necessary is about twenty employees. There is also an intention in the allocation of recruitment of permanent and subsidiary staff to strengthen this hospital. We think it is necessary to operate and strengthen it in order to meet the needs of this huge north-eastern axis of Attica, which is a very large area. We are prepared in a second year, in the context of a more general redesign of the entire Lecano hospital map, a plan which is obviously based on a map of the population's real health needs on the basis of epidemiological data, based on evidence of morbidity that exists in the area, to see how we can more rationally develop and redesign public services and hospital services in Lecanopdi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Voulas. The House welcomes you and we wish you health and progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. As you know and said in my first speech, indeed the biggest hit for Amalia Flemming Hospital was his integration into the availability program for staff. The acute problem faced by this hospital, beyond sub-financing, with what this entails for its operation, as I have focused on before, is the lack of staff, which has been carried out at a marginal level, even if we take into account the reduction of beds from the two hundred and twenty-four, as you say, with the latest figures. This situation is being deleted today. So the enormous shortages in staff, which are created and the lack of replacement for those who are retired, result, in addition to the days due, as we have said, in cases of doctors - and they say so themselves - who need and stay at the hospital forty-eight hours at the same time as on-calls and so on, in order to get the job out. As you can see, any human boundaries in this direction are being overcome. Therefore, the intensification of the work of the staff also creates dangerous situations for their health, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in the direction of health services to patients. Of course, the problems of this hospital do not stop here, as do all hospitals. The underfunding of the hospital puts an obstacle even to its elementary function, causing great shortages. Thus, the 2014 budget for the two merged hospitals, i.e. the ‘Amalia Fleming’ Hospital and the ‘Sisminoglio’, was about 33 million, while for 2015 it is about 20 million. In other words, we have a rough reduction of 40% over a year. Inside this functional suffocation, therefore, the hospital is called upon to serve, as you know, and you know, this northeastern axis, as has been said, from Marathona to Artemis and Pallini and from Pendeli to Agia Paraskevi. This is a huge area that until three years ago covered by three hospitals, Sisminoglio, Amalia Fleming Hospital, which we are discussing and the Papadimitriou Hospital. Of course, similar problems are faced with all public health structures, public hospitals. The government, Minister, as you said in your first speech and as announced in the previous period, will recruit the ones it has announced. But look at something. And previous governments made some recruitments. The problem, however, is that even if 100% of those announced are to be a drop in the ocean, public health units will continue to be difficult to operate, whether in primary care or in hospitals, with what this means for patients and working rights in the direction of intensification of the work of workers, since the previous losses to personnel are not going to be replaced. In fact, some of the recruitments, as you have already said and said before, will be the subsidiary - you did not say the second element - or with blocks, which do not cost the state budget, since they are paid and charged with the hospital budgets, from the same revenue. In other words, these recruitments will be financed by the patients themselves. Even the plan presented by the government is conditional on one and the main condition. Who's that? The necessary redistribution - that is - of wealth, that is, the new tax policy, the progress of the negotiations on the country's government debt and budgetary situation. Ask me May to eat a clover! So the government - the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government - may be new, but the policy it has announced and managed is old and tested and this policy is due to the current state of the people in the health sector. That is why we say that our people should not have any illusions that there can be a recovery of losses in the field of medical care because the manager of government has changed. The recovery of losses and the revocation of measures of substantial relief to the people, we believe, should be in the priorities of the fight against the workers of the people' s movement, so that they all have, without exception, complete services of health, welfare and medicine from the public, without any payment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u68	My dear colleague, we fully agree on the findings. I said earlier that this intervention, which took place, did not serve any rationalization plan nor had any reformist logic. There was a huge disorganization of public care, of already problematic and before the public care crisis. They closed hospital beds and there was a huge social cost. Today, the function of neighbouring hospitals has been aggravated, because hospitals have actually been lost, many of which have been close to popular neighborhoods, in Patisia, the "Policy" in the center of Athens, the "Agia Varvara". The possibility of accessing poor people who have had an easy time in contact with health services has been reduced. Workload has increased, especially in the emergency at on-call hospitals as a whole from this shrinkage and waiting times have increased too much. So social and health costs are very important. However, we must admit that obviously this grim reality cannot change, no matter how much political will there is. Even if the financial conditions are guaranteed, it cannot be changed by magic. And to be honest, we say that what is important for us is to ensure by nails and teeth the survival of current public primary and secondary care structures, to facilitate people's access - and we do so by means of the joint ministerial decision signed these days on universal access for uninsured people to the system - to reduce charges that existed in the previous period, such as the five-year-old we have already abolished, and, of course, to make public structures operational, so that they can respond to increased demand at this time because of the crisis. That's the point. Obviously, this wants a very serious adjustment of the funds that are currently available for this year. We have said that it is a budget of austerity and cuts that would jeopardise the proper functioning of the system from the middle of the year. We are struggling to have the financial framework that will allow this adjustment. This is the central political issue of the negotiations that the country and the government are currently giving us, to have a stable and secure financial framework, which will allow for other political priorities in the country in favour of the world of work, for the benefit of the social state, for the benefit of public goods. And we have said that with 4.5% as a percentage of GDP for public health expenditure, it is evident that the current miserable reality in the health system and the terrible suffering and burden of citizens cannot be significantly improved. We truly recognise the excellent work that the human resource has done in the system and which continues under very unfavourable conditions and labour pressure and wage impoverishment to offer. We respect this work, we are trying to be as much as possible in our obligations towards employees and overtime as we do, and we believe that they are based on this human resource, based on the honest and reliable forces that the health system currently has, we will slowly be able to stabilise public care, make it easier for workers to work, but above all for the services of the public. We want, in other words, to increase the social reciprocity of the public system at this time. Within this framework, the "Amalia Fleming" will also be strengthened, i.e. within the framework of the division of human resources between doctors, nurses, paramedical staff in the next period and with recruitment of permanent staff and by subsistence staff and necessarily at this stage, because we know very well that the recruitment procedures of permanent staff are too long, we will also use forms of work and needs to meet...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u69	Hey, change the regime, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u70	Dear colleague, our will is to have human resources in the system with stable employment relationships...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u71	With a PPP you change it within one day and you hire the next day staff with a permanent and stable employment relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u72	You know very well that it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u73	Why isn't it like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u74	It's not like that at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u75	The thing is not if you can, but if you want to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u76	The recruitment procedures of doctors to the health system with SKEIOPY, in the way the crisis committees operate, etc., are over a year and a half. For subsidiary staff, you also know very well that it exceeds four months. With the legislative intervention we made last week, we will try to shorten these times. We're really making a great effort. We understand people's anxiety in the health system. It is also our concern for public care to survive, because it is our political commitment to respond to the increased needs of the population at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Minister. Thank you very much, Mr Lambroulis. The first question will now be discussed under number 193/5-2015 of the second-cycle question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Finance, concerning measures to relieve the borrowers of the Organization for the Housing of Workers (OEC). The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Urania Antonopoulou. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. This is not a foreign matter, of course, with the previous issue discussed in the timely question about 'Amalia Fleming' and the issue of health, education, people's homes and others who torture the people's family. It is on the agenda, because the war has no end and many borrowers of the Labour Housing Organization are also in a dead end, because as the Minister well knows, they are workers or workers and today they are unemployed or they may be retired, and they may have very serious survival problems. It is well known, Minister, that the recent n.4305/2014 by Article 55 provided for arrangements for the borrowers of the Housing Agency. Except that these arrangements are very far from the needs and problems of borrowers. They're not responding to meeting their needs. Bank predators refuse to incorporate the housing agency's borrowers even in these red loans arrangements, which we of course have another perception. However, since time is running out, I would like to ask the following questions. We want you to tell us, Minister, if the government has a plan to face up to the stumbling blocks made by banks to incorporate the borrowers of the OSCE even in these regulations, because they do not even incorporate them into these regulations. And, of course, we want you to tell us whether the government has any other thoughts of alleviating the highly indebted people's borrowings with funds from the agency, but also more generally with the drastic cut in debt - we are saying that it should be deleted from the capital received by someone who is in a very difficult position today - the freezing of debts for the unemployed, for those who have lost their jobs, the abolition of interest on late payments, the drastic reduction in interest without time limits and suffocating conditions. All this, Minister, has to do with the previous government's decision to abolish the Labour Housing Organization. I would remind you that, when SYRIZA was a Dedicated Opposition, it also disagreed with the abolition of the Labour Housing Agency and the Labour Housing. But to date I do not see - or hear anything about the re-establishment of these agencies, because workers are still paying contributions to the Labour Housing Agency and the Labour House. On these questions we have asked you, we would like your answers. And we will, of course, come back after your answer on a number of other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr Urania Antonopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u80	Thank you for the question, dear colleague. I'll try and answer you. The situation created in the area of late loans granted by the former ECT is indeed extremely serious, as the burdens accumulated on the shoulders of borrowers, who are unable to serve their debts, are undoubtedly disproportionately large to the uncertain. That's right, you do. This reasonably results from the fact that 71% of the borrowers of the former ECE cannot and does not normally pay the instalments for the loans received from the Agency. However, the settlement of these dues by the previous government in October 2014 is inadequate in addressing the problem for three main reasons: Firstly, because 60% of the subsidised borrowers - fifty-eight thousand on a total of some ninety-seven thousand - are excluded from the arrangement, because they are stumbling on the limit not to have exceeded the level of six instalments up to 1-10-2014. The second problem is that the regulation was designed by limiting only six months to submit the relevant request to the banks. It also expired in April 2015. Thirdly, because the arrangement did not protect borrowers against the possibility that banks would increase the interest rate following the request for a prolongation of the loan, as they had this possibility, which, of course, limited the benefit of the beneficiaries of the arrangement. In response to this obsolete situation, the Ministry of Labour, in cooperation with the Ministry of Development, has already extended the deadline for subjecting the arrangement to the end of 2015, thereby allowing for the extension of the repayment period. Furthermore, negotiating proposals with the co-operating banks have begun to normalise all loan contracts and cooperation contracts for the benefit of borrowers. This is because the economic weakness of the latter is obvious. The existing regulation, with its relief, took into account only the effect of the borrowers on their liabilities to the bank, but not on their financial situation. That is exactly what you said before. Thus, in the case of the unemployed who are indebted to subsidised loans and workers working under working conditions who cannot have an income that enables them to meet their obligations, the Ministry of Labour considers their ability to comply with the existing rules, exempting them from the limitation that their debts do not exceed six months ago. Also, with the current data and over the duration of the interest subsidy by the OAU - OAED today - it is not possible to subject these loans to the planned red loan arrangement, as has been the case so far. However, the Ministry of Labour is investigating their possibility of going into cooperation with the Ministry of Mr. Stathakis. Finally, the Ministry of Labour is working on more favourable arrangements for loans granted under OEC own funds and for the recalculation of housing, given that the values of these houses have been reduced. We are in this process and will inform you in a short time, because this is a very important matter for our people. On this basis, therefore, we are moving at an intensive rate so that we can have some results which we will soon be able to present to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsotis, I will announce the presence of small students who, when they noticed the coming of the rainy Minister of Finance, had a little turbulence over the Western theories. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the "World Democracy Workshop", which is organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 11th Haidari Municipal School. We welcome you and wish you health and every good. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Katsotis, it's from your district. That's why I interrupted you. So continue for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u82	So we welcome the students and teachers from Haidari. As it is a working town and Haidari, it is about the issue that we are discussing a number of workers and the unemployed. It's very serious. You said, too, Minister, that they are ninety-seven thousand of the beneficiaries. A very large proportion cannot meet these arrangements provided for in the previous law. These arrangements you make for the extension, etc., I do not know whether they will be enough. We will, of course, see your final plan. We want to point out that the government should make it clear that no OEC house can be seized. In other words, there can be no borrower of the Occupational Housing Agency who loses his home because he cannot pay his loan, the instalments he has gone to the banks. Minister, the fact that the banks have been in the middle of this treasury of workers with the OEC and today - if you like - terrorize, blackmail workers to collect the loans is a crime. In fact, it confirms what we were talking about, that banks should not be involved in loans and beneficiaries. I believe that the involvement of banks in the borrowers of the OEC should be reviewed at this point. It didn't exist before. You know that very well. The banks have been involved after a period of time, and today they have become the fear and terror of the unemployed, the workers, the beneficiaries, namely the Labour House Agency. We don't think the borrowers will pay their loan. But they cannot be blackmailed and terrified. And there can be no regulation in these new conditions that exist in their lives. For example, a capital cut cannot be considered here. We have tabled this, too, Minister. From the capital that has been taken to cut a percentage. In addition, on the issue of the unemployed, you said that you were considering some other arrangements, they cannot freeze the loans of the unemployed. How's the other guy gonna pay? Here, he can't survive, he can't have the things he needs for his daily survival, how will he pay his loan? We in our question also raise the issue of the abolition of interest on late payment, the drastic reduction of interest without time limits and conditions. As for the six-month period, Minister, set by the previous law, I would like to ask why six months rather than seven? Who's the man who's imposing the six months? And why should it not be for the entire time of the crisis and the situation that the workers are going through today? There are a million and a half unemployed. The payroll went to the tartars. Labour relations are flexible. We're talking about three hours and four hours! How can this employee respond and pay his loan to the bank that blackmails him daily? And why six months and not seven? As far as interest rates are concerned, as you have said, when they go to banks to make arrangements, not only do they not win, but they are also lost from above. So I think there is a direct need for an integrated regulation for the borrowers of the OEC. The ninety-seven thousand beneficiaries are waiting, Minister, for an integrated regulation to be really alleviated from this bourgeoisie after the new crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u84	Indeed, as I have already developed, the problem is huge and we are committed to making proposals, which will go in the right direction to resolve the problem. But I would like to point out that the problem is quite complicated. First of all, as you know, there is a subsidy. So when we say he can't pay, it's not just that he can't pay, but that he can't pay what's missing. Anyway, right now we don't have the time to develop the problem. We will have the chance at another time to develop it as a whole. I just want to repeat and assure you that, as I have said before, we are working on this whole issue. In a short time we will be able to present our proposals. I would also like to reiterate that we are deeply aware that the problem is very great and that this regulation should indeed include the banks, so that we have a dialogue with all the stakeholders, because as the problem is now in our hands, we cannot think of how we would like there to be a different political approach. We must first of all resolve the problem we have in our hands. We will be back in a short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister, like you, Mr Katsotis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-nine students from the Indiana University Kelley School of Business, to find out the exemplary functioning of the Greek Parliament. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now we are entering the second with number 189/5-2015, a top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, Mr Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Finance, on the impact of the decision to exclude Greece from the European Central Bank's programme of quantitative relaxation. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor to see what the Minister will tell us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, on 5 March the European Central Bank announced the Quantitative Easing Programme, the QE, the well-known quantitative relaxation programme, with which the European Central Bank will buy 1.1 trillion government bonds by September 2016, which is about EUR 60 billion a month. This is a decision taken by the European Central Bank to make a more aggressive policy in order to address the problems of the euro area, because, as you know very well, interest rates are at a historically low level. This has a triple target. The first is to reach the objective of inflation around and below 2%. The second is to reduce unemployment and stimulate growth, because the theory is that this money goes to banks and from there to the real economy, to businesses and households. The third objective is, of course, to help the yields of government bonds. But you know very well that Greece is at the moment excluded from this programme because the fifth assessment by the Troika has not been closed, but also because we have the bonds which expire in July and August. The result is that we're over the 33% cap set by the bank. So, to say it a little more popular and as the Chief of Police Vice-Population, Mr Samaras, said, 'in Europe right now it is raining money and we are holding an umbrella'. In the first part of the question, I would first like your opinion - and of course I ask it not personally, but the institutions as Finance Minister - on whether Query is a good thing, because I have read a number of points of view on this subject. I start with one point of view, which was in your article at protagon.gr before becoming Minister. "These two Latin initially, QE, reflect the perpetuation of the worst crisis since the Middle War and maintain the sepsis of the global economic system." And I come to "ECONOMIST": "Regarding the asset - purchase programme's philosophy, we very much doubt that, at this juncture, purchasing gowning bonuses in report to each member - state's... is eher necesssary or desirable". That's what you became Minister. At the Amproceti club forum in Como you suggested an alternative quantitative relaxation. You have proposed that 100% be financed on a market by the European Investment Bank and the ECB buy these bonds on a secondary market. In fact, that is what you wanted to say 'Merkel programme'. Then, at the 'REUTERS', on the same day you proposed this, you say 'The resort of this is going to be an equality run boost that will promote unstable'. In fact, you're saying this could cause a bubble. First of all, I'd say I'm not the first person to ask about the quantitative relaxation program. You have also been asked by my colleague Mr Denkias, but we shall be discussing the answer you gave there in the second part of the question. I am also replying to Mr Papadioulis who asked Mr Draghi, but also to a Spanish MEP, Mr Tremosa, that the programme of quantitative relaxation is developing smoothly. In fact, I am reading 'QE is working better than it was expected in ECB Dared Hope', that is to say that it is going better than it expected, while in the crossissance you will be watching 'La Commission europeenne dit merci a la Banque Centrale Europe', that is to say, thank the Central Bank. So, after all this, I would like at this first point you to tell me institutionally and officially what the government's view is. Is quantitative relaxation a good thing? Is it bad we're not in there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. The Minister for Finance, Mr Yanis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Asmakopoulou, thank you for your question. I am pleased about this because it is a very important debate and I think that Parliament should have an opinion. And that is the best way for public opinion to be informed. I'll be clear. The quantitative relaxation, if we were to participate in it, would be very positive for the data of the Greek debt problem - deflation. This is because, in fact, it would allow us to return to markets more quickly. Of course, you know, Mrs. Asimakopoulou, that Mr. Draghi does not go into quantitative relaxation to solve our problem. The reason, as you have said, is that the European Central Bank has basically failed its monetary objectives and found itself in a great deadlock for the reasons you have said again. When interest rates fall to zero, traditional monetary policy is now unstable. So let us start with our own and then I will give you my opinion on the result of quantitative relaxation at a pan-European level. If we were to participate in quantitative relaxation, we would have the prospect of getting out on the markets much faster. So, I repeat, it would be positive. Why don't we have her? You know well, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, that it's not a matter of negotiation. If we had closed the negotiation yesterday, we'd still be out of quantitative relaxation. The reason for this is that there is a nearly photographic provision in the decision of 4 March of the European Central Bank entitled 'Second markets for public debt - its purchase programme'. You will see this photo layout in Article 5(3). [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will also take the time of my denunciation to respond more together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u89	There will be tolerance, Minister, and Mrs Asmakopoulou and you. You can go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. So, what does this photographic device say? It says that any country's bonds of 33% or more have already been transferred to the European Central Bank does not participate. And I say it's a photographic device, because it's only about Greece. It is about the SNP programme, prepared by Mr Triche, when he was President of the European Central Bank, which was a programme that actually tried to stop, if you like, the fall of Greece outside the markets. It was a programme that failed Mr Trichet's monetary policy, because we know very well that he failed to keep us on the markets. Question: What would have happened if these bonds had not been purchased by Mr Trichet with the SNP programme? The answer today is that they would have been bored to about 90% in net present value, in time values. So we have a failure of the European Central Bank under the presidency of Mr Trichet, the predecessor of Mr Draghi, from whom the Greek State had no advantage. This part of our debt, Mr President and Mrs Asimakopoulou - you know that - is not due to the fact that the Greek State has borrowed money from the partners or from the European Central Bank. The European Central Bank actually bought at the highest prices from BNP, from Deutsche Bank, from various European, mainly, banks, whose bonds were 18%, 19% of their nominal value at the time. He bought them for 70%. It substantially strengthened these banks. And now we are called upon to pay them back to 100% of their value, with the promise of a return of about 30% to the Greek State, but it is the Memorandum of Approval. I would also like to inform you of this 1.9 that we received for 2014, which I consider to be particularly important for you to record, because you may not know it. This EUR 1.9 billion Right now we thought it would be the easiest part of the dose to get it. I think you thought so too. It was our money. It has been agreed by Europe that we should be given credit. Is that correct? One would think it would be the easiest. It's not. It is the most difficult one, because these have already been attributed to the governments of the Member States, our partners. Some of them - I will not say which in particular, you understand - are already in the 2014 budget. So they think that when they give it to us, it will be a loan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u91	They went to the Treasury in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u92	So the reason why we are not involved in quantitative relaxation is the unacceptable conditions of the 2012 PSI. I am not used to calculating myself, but I really think that if the government officials of Papademos - Venizelos - Venizelos - who have signed those terms and have actually allowed the European Central Bank to function as a hedge fund, which is holding back bonds, hoping that at some point it will be repaid to 100% of the value and that these bonds are, in fact, considered not to have been withdrawn from the market while they are fully withdrawn. If they hadn't retired, they'd be tired. So we've now received two costs. One is that they are not tired and the other is that they consider bonds to be circulating and therefore do not allow us to participate in quantitative relaxation. This is a disaster for which the Government of Papademos - Venizelos was responsible for these specific conditions. And that must be clear, because the responsibilities must at last be attributed. I therefore think I have answered your question: what are the consequences of the exception? The consequences of the exception are that they are pushing our way out into the markets for the future. In your written question you have put a very important question, what do we think should be done? And that's independent of who's in the government, you or whoever it is. What needs to be done is these 27 billion bonds still held by the European Central Bank, leave overnight and be sent to the ultimate future. How can this be done? With a swap. The idea of a swap between the Greek Government and the European Central Bank fills Mr Draghi's soul with fear. This is because, as you know very well - and if you do not know, I am telling you - that Mr Draghi currently has a great fight against the Bundesbank, which combats quantitative relaxation. Mr. Weidman and Mr. Draghi have this front. For Mr Draghi, quantitative relaxation is everything at the moment, it is the strategy on which it bases on the treatment of deflation at European level. To allow a swap between our new bonds, for example, and those bonds, would give Mr Weidman food to cause problems in the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank. That's why he's out of conversation. But a swap between us and the ESM, who will then pay off these 27 billion and we will be charged to the ESM, but a debt that will go 30%, 40%, perpetual bonus as it is, is the solution. So, because you asked me what we intend to do, I just answered you. And I think that any government should have done it, whether you or anyone else. You will now allow me to reply to you on personal grounds, because you have asked me what my theoretical, scientific attitude is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you have answered me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u94	Now I have answered you institutionally. Now I'm going to answer you as a Member...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u95	Let the Minister tell us. Let him reveal, don't stop him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u96	Are you interested in me answering as an economist now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u97	Minister, I am very interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u98	Let him go, he's revealing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u99	I'll be very brief. After all, as a Member, I think I am entitled to have an opinion. And as an economist. That's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u100	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u101	The quantitative relaxation in which it has been applied, starting in Japan in the 1990s and then in the United States, has failed to create the growth potential through the channel you said. And how was he supposed to go? You buy as a central bank the bonds held by banks, banks have more liquidity, they give more loans to businesses, companies invest and move the economy. This monetary channel, if you want, a sequence, has never worked where it was implemented. What's going on? Businesses and households at a time of crisis, such as ours now, like Japan in the 1990s, as in the United States in 2009, 2010, 2011, when you give them the opportunity to borrow they don't get it. And if they get these loans, do you know what they're doing? They buy the same shares to increase their stock market value, to get the managers bonus and no investments. In this respect, bubbles are created on the stock exchange which are not followed by growth dynamics. That is why Richard Ku of "NOMURA" has rightly invented the title "balance Sheet Recession" and "QE Trap", the trap of quantitative relaxation. We are at risk from this in the European Union right now. We risk and know very well that in Germany where, you know, financial institutions in Germany are obliged to invest in bonds in the German state, as was here with the insurance funds, etc. But you know that because the European Central Bank buys them, they do not have enough bonds for insurance companies, Alliance and so on. This is a recession, if you like, at interest rates - the bund has reached a negative level in Germany - and a discrepancy between monetary policy in Germany in surplus countries and deficit countries. Is the QE a good thing in Europe? I'll answer you very well, and I'll stop here so I won't use any more time. It has a very positive impact, but indirect, not through the mechanism it was supposed to work. What is the indirect positive development? That he's thrown away the euro. That was the help of the QE. But that could be different, you know. So we have an increase right now in France - I was just reading the figures - of consumption, which has led to the recovery of the euro area as a whole. It's not because of the investments, though. If you look at investments in Germany, France, Italy, they're falling. What is at stake is an increase in consumption due to a decrease in the euro exchange rate and a greater consumer movement. I do not think that this is a way out of the crisis. Do I agree with what Mr Draghi did? Of course, because that could do. What Europe needs, however, is what? It's what Mr. Draghi said last summer at Jackson Hall. Three things. It needs a monetary policy of the QE type, a much more relaxed fiscal policy in a pan-European, and in particular in surplus countries, and it also needs reforms. Unfortunately, neither we have reforms at pan-European level - to remind you that in Germany, for example, the service sector that is in great need is not reformed - nor a relaxed fiscal policy and we have this failure to transform quantitative relaxation into investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Minister. From what you said, the exceptionally, most revealing, is that there is a weakness of revenge of 1.9 billion. It seems that this is based on a hefty condition of the agreement of 20 February so that we do not get what you said now, after Parliament has written it. So it's the most revealing thing you've ever told us. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, first of all I thank you very much for your tolerance because it is an interesting issue, I think. And thank you, Minister, for your time here and answering. Just when I had it a little, I lost it at the end, but I'll try to sum up what I got. I understand that in general you think it's a good thing that the QE is happening right now. For the data, you have said about the rating of debt - deflation and this situation. I also realized that it could lead us to a faster exit from markets. As you know, of course, we had another proposal to get out of the market more quickly. The proposal was that the evaluation had been closed faster, that we could have gone to the preventive support line and already have been on the markets. There would be no such uncertainty as to whether we can pay the bonds in July and August, which is currently there. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I've heard you say it's photographic, Mr. Draghi's arrangement. So, to be clear - I, of course, also have here what you did citing - the reality is that it was not done for Greece, because there is a more general ban, that is, that the European Central Bank cannot finance or intervene and finance a country. It must do other things, such as monetary policy, so this tool has been chosen. We're just not fulfilling the terms and conditions right now. And, of course, Mr Draghi also answered that, not to you personally, but by speaking to Members. Mr Draghi first responded to the criticism that there is blackmail, there is suffocation that is targeted at Greece and certainly also referred to the ELA, which currently gives us, which is 65% of our GDP, in order to understand the size of support and what would happen without this support. I also realized that it was Mr. Draghi who targeted us, which is why we're outside. It's Mr. Trichee's fault he didn't do well before. I knew it was us, of course, for the previous ones, and that is what you answered to my colleague Mr Teddy. You replied that the responsibility for the exclusion of Greece from the quantitative relaxation programme is borne in full by the two previous governments. Okay. I'm used to hearing from your government that it's all someone else's fault. In this case, it is us. I guess we're standard, it's always our fault. It's Mr. Triche, it's Mr. Draghi. It's the fight between Mr. Draghi and Mr. Vittman. I will acknowledge that, yes, Germany has - if you like - an issue with inflation because it has lived badly through it, so it is afraid of these kinds of policies. It is therefore the fault of everyone else, but it would be good to have the quantitative relaxation for Greece. So let us turn to what would be good in the next step. And your proposal, then, is to have a swap with perpetual bonuses. That's your proposal. I retain this because we may need it in the future to see - that will obviously be a matter of negotiation - if this objective can be achieved in the negotiations. I compare him to how difficult it is to get 1.9 and I would remind you that 1.9 of the S&P's belongs to 7.9 which at the beginning of the negotiation you did not want to get and which, together with 7.9 on 20 February, you did not get, and that meant that the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Tsipras, admitted that there was a big mistake in the negotiation. I conclude, Minister, by saying this: it is interesting that your views are scientifically and on a personal level, and I retain the institution, namely that you, as Minister of Finance and the Government, consider the programme of quantitative relaxation to be positive, that it can help us out on the market, and that your programme for the future is to propose a swap with perpetual bonuses. I would remind you, however, that this has all started to become a little urgent, because yesterday we learned from ELSTAT's estimates that, for the first time, GDP has decreased by 0.2% in the first quarter. I mean, in common, we're back to the recession. The government's primary surplus in the first quarter was shaped lower than last year. The cost of borrowing the government from the inmates is higher than it was. Social Security Institutions have a primary deficit, it will require the IKA to raise EUR 360 million in repos in additional liquidity. The outstanding debts have increased. There is an internal payment stop. By Acting Legislative, you know, you've made internal lending. Deposits are dropping steadily. Guarantees through ELA are increasing and this is a cost to all Greeks. The business climate - I do not need to describe it to you with numbers that we read on various verbs - is in a bad state. Suffice it to say that according to GFCF, the first quarter of five thousand three hundred forty-forty-one companies have put a locker - fifty-nine a day - and one out of three told IOB yesterday that in the next two months it will be closed. Well, that's the situation. In this situation, regardless of what your personal, scientific views are, I think we should be converging around one thing, that we are in a hurry, because the delay at the moment brings an unbearable account, which will be paid by the Greek people. And no matter whether you and I disagree about the fact that a swap of perpetual bonuses is a good idea or not, about whether Mr. Trise followed a good policy, about whether Mr. Papademos could have made a better negotiation, and at this time not having the bonuses in July and August, the essence is that here we are every day getting worse, so we expect...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u104	Mrs. Ammakopoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u105	Thank you for your tolerance, Madam President, I am closing. We expect an agreement to be made before the account for the Greek people is raised. Thank you again for your time, Minister, and you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Varoufakis has the floor now. I would ask you very much to keep up with the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u107	Yeah, yeah. I'll be very brief. I will respect the parliamentary procedure and do not have a debate on all the economics you want, Mrs Asmakopoulou, to do. I'm just going to talk to you about quantitative relaxation. You said that in general it would be good for Greece right now. Yeah, but that's what Mr. Samaras should have known. Do not urge me to repeat from youtube his speech from this Step here, so as to say that it is illegal the proposal for quantitative relaxation and he had embraced Mr Vitman's view that the bond market from the European Central Bank would constitute a violation of its statute. Because it is not possible to abdicate us that we do not participate in it when your Chief considered it unacceptable. But of course, it is in line with what you said before, as I noticed a tendency to be an attorney for both Mr. Draghy and Mr. Vitman. Mr. Samaras was then an advocate of the German opinion on quantitative relaxation until Mr. Draghi started to do it, what Mr. Samaras said was illegal. Now, for the swap you said. Swap is an idea, not the only idea. What's the main thing? The ESS will take over this burden and I think we will agree here. I can't imagine New Democracy disagrees with that. Now, how we will charge this burden, which will be borne by us by the ESM, if we do so with a perpetual bonus, with a new version of thirty years of Greek government, with some other financial instrument, we will discuss this. But I think there should be a national consensus here on this particular issue, and I really do not think there will be any. I conclude by saying this: you said that the solution to the exit of the memorandum was the one you tabled and that we would have come out if the fifth evaluation had been completed. Hey, why didn't you finish it? I'll tell you why you didn't complete it: why you couldn't handle it. And you did well, and you didn't take it, because this integration would be the completion of another cycle in this deflation debt darkness, and what we are called upon to do is what you didn't want to do and hand over power to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis. We will now debate the fourth question with number 149/27-4-2015, on the attitude of the Greek State lawyer in discussing the appeal to the Council of State on 24-3-2015 of the non-profit association "Greek Taxers", which called for an unconstitutional and illegal "constitutional compromise" between the Greek State and SIEMENS. The Minister of Finance will answer Mr. Yanis Varoufakis. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, welcome. The situation and the case are very well known. The advocate and representative of the Greek State according to statements - but they are verified and cross-checked - when he was present at the Council of State took the part of the German State and stated in his argument that the appeal is unfounded. It also claimed that it was an agreement between a public undertaking and a private undertaking and does not concern the interests of Greek taxpayers. Let me remind you here that the 'convention of compromise' has been written by the PASOK government and has been signed by the Government of New Democracy. It will be good, because we all have this evil flaw in reading and there are too many pages to be kept in the Minutes two notes. We note page 2.499 of this law - n. I think - and what is the case with the compromise of the 'SIEMENS'? It includes all cases, claims or claims, known and not all, which are in any way related to corruption, payments or promises of payments to third parties or other illegal activities on the part of SIEMENS, including, but not limited to cases discovered and revealed in the US courts. We, in other words, share what we know, do not know, what comes from the past and what we find in the future that we do not know about. On page 2.498: Between the Greek State and Siemens, as shown in paragraph, they agree that this Agreement does not affect outstanding differences existing or any resulting commercial, administrative, civil and criminal liability. In short, we - not we, we, are not government, the PASOK government that wrote it, not the Greek State, nor the Court of Auditors, nor the Council of State - have given a foreign company the money to write this contract and the government of Mr Samaras signed it, which gives it full forgiveness of sins by ignoring the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which had a depositary loss of EUR 2 billion in the Greek State, namely the Greek taxpayer. I will come back after your reply, which I am looking forward to with special interest, to reveal what Mr Banu has said and finally to see who is ruling this country - I do not mean for us, who has been running it for so many years - and what he insists that he decides and operates underminely to this government and in favour of the German interests, and I am clear to what I am saying. Does the Minister also ask the Greek State whether it is true that the attitude of the lawyer of the Ministry of Finance was that he took part in the arguments of the German State. If it is true, how is this attitude aligned with the interests of the Greek State, as expressed by our Government and the Prime Minister of the country? And thirdly, if the attitude of the lawyer of the Ministry of Finance does not express the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Greek Government, who are responsible for this attitude and how does he intend to move from here to similar judicial decisions? There will be too many similar judicial decisions in the Memorandum of Inquiry and many others, and we would like to know what the position and attitude of the Greek State and the Ministry of Finance are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. I would remind everyone and Members of Parliament and Ministers that there is a certain amount of time. It is understandable that there will be a tolerance, but I very much hope that there will be no infringement and that you will not bring the Bureau into a difficult position. Mr. Varoufakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u111	I won't embarrass you, I'll be brief. Mr Colleagues, you know very well what the Legal Counsel is about the matter that you have raised. With regard to the first question, the Legal Council of State submits that the legal representative of the State was limited to matters that were admissible in the exercise of the claim for annulment, rather than to whether the compromise was fair or unfair, beneficial or not, moral. With regard to the second and third questions, the Legal Council defends the representative of the State, saying that it was his duty and his obligation to counter the request for the annulment of the agreement with SIEMENS and states that neither intervention nor guidance by the political leadership to the representative of the State is permitted. Here I have the letter from Mr Harlaftis, who says: 'In order to carry out their service, neither is it sought nor permitted to intervene or guide the political leadership and the Ministry responsible'. Look. We know very well that this is a compromise agreement which is a shame on Greece. The price is degrading, it is inconsistent with the customs and customs of a European country. It is an agreement that enabled Mr Stournara - if I am not mistaken - to sign this forgiveness of sins, it gives a sense of subjection to the law of the mighty, immunity and, in general, to a position of the country, which can only be described as subjection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u112	Isn't that what Mr. Banos is supposed to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u114	I told you, Mr Nicolopoulou, that I do not have the possibility - and rightly I do not have the opportunity - to dictate to the Legal Adviser of the State what he will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u115	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u116	But what I can say is that the legal and political handling of the whole story has not been the one that should have been. Unfortunately, disbursement has begun, which commits, you know, the Greek State in case it denounces this agreement to return the money to "SIEMENS", which would be very strange and provocative in the midst of today's economic situation. Look. What the government has done is that it has set up a committee at the highest political level, in Maximus, in particular, to examine the case and the actual compensation of the public. After all, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for the Greek public to be indicted for corruption by those who have contributed to its covertness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u118	Just three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u119	You were excellent. I hope Mr. Kammenos is the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u120	I'll be very brief. Of course, hope is dying lately! I'm humoring.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u121	But sometimes he must not die.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I regard myself as an obligation to the voters of the Independent Greeks, to the voters of SYRIZA, to the voters of each party and to PASOK who are absent from reading for a minute who is Mr Banos, because we need to know and know again in this lot who is the gentleman who took this stand in this court. Firstly, Mr Banos was well known in his opinion in favour of the closure of the ERT. Secondly, Mr Banos was one of the closest associates of George Papaconstantinou, the former Minister of Finance, and defender of his trial. Mr. Banos passed from Mr. Papaconstantinou to Mr. Venizelos as Minister of Finance - note the conspiracy of the Greek political scene - and Mr. Venizelos passed on to Mr. Stournara. The common factor of all the finance ministers was Mr Banos. Mr Banos, a member of the Board of Legal Affairs of the State, has been a consultant for many years. These are verified and cross-checked. He is the one who wrote, as the "BIMATOS" revealed - not Mr. Kammenos or Mr. Varoufakis - who supports the memorandums all the bills from 2009 until today. Can I repeat it? Mr. Banos has written all the memorandum bills from 2009 to today. To get to know each other again in this country. The famous charm of PPC, the meteorology, the wage and pension cuts all bear its signature. Together with the Director-General for Taxation prepared all tax bills passed by the PASOK government during the first sixteen months of governance of the memorandum. I am astonished to imagine everyone, but the revelations must be made in this House and kept in the Minutes, because I like to be re-equipped with many in this country. I am aware of and remains at the crossroads - I do not want Mr Varoufakis to answer, because he is likely to be in the secrets of the negotiation - that in February, when we gave the papers to get the difficult one - as Mr Samaras had set us in, we have known very well since December - he went through a piece of paper from a service agent to Mr Tsipras, which was also the signature of a memorandum. There's a rumour that this service agent put it. It will also be investigated. I close by saying that this country has become, as the international term says, a failed state, namely a failed country. They're doing whatever they like. The gear works in favor of lenders and this abscess needs to be broken. There's rot in this country, in this country. It's got to break the abscess. We'll either take the fates of our homeland into our hands, or we'll continue to roll along with this malicious gear. I'm hanging up with this. I would remind you that the US court has revealed that SIEMENS, RAIMENTAL and other companies had tax exemptions from the German State for the hatreds they gave, ladies and gentlemen, all over the world. Let me say it again. The German State of Mr. Videman, Mr. Symble and Mrs. Merkel gave tax exemptions to all German companies to "misar" all the governments of the world. They also had motives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Mr. Varoufakis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u124	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much. So we are now going to fifth, with number 163/28-4-2015, a timely question for the second time, the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, on the statements made by the Government representative on the issue of increased VAT on certain Aegean islands. Mr Consola's timely question will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis. Mr. Consola, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u126	Two? Have we reduced time, Madam President? Thank you, Madam President. Minister, honestly it is an excellent opportunity today that in the debate at the National Representation in the presence of the Minister there is a very important debate on the issues relating to the region's economy, but also the country in general. In the context of this debate, and on the occasion of this debate, Mr Minister, we have directly targeted the tourism product, the economy of the tourism sector, and the economy in the island regions, in the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, the northern Aegean and, on the occasion of the Minister, our questions relating both to the existing government policy and to the journalistic rumour about the abolition of reduced VAT rates and also additional taxation on the tourism product, we are now putting the questions before us, since we have submitted on 25 February, 7 April, 5 May, that is to say, the last time. I am pleased that you are here today to answer these questions as a whole. This debate has begun on the occasion of your letter to the Eurogroup on the absurd discounts or exemptions the letter makes to the President of Eurogroup. Then some statements by government officials caused a climate of insecurity, destabilisation and problems in the tourism economy in general, especially in the island economy. In addition, we have recently heard about the imposition of specific measures that the government intends to take that will cancel institutionalised operations at the reduced VAT rates of the Aegean Sea, as they will affect competitiveness and have negative consequences, even for these additional charges you intend to impose. I consider it my duty, Minister - and I would like you, Madam President - to have your tolerance, in relation to the historical context of the application of reduced VAT rates, to submit in the minutes relevant legislation from 1986 onwards, in 1990, which has contributed to this by some of our parliamentary representatives from the past. I am presenting, for example, the proposal for a law by Mr Tassos Karamariou, Member of the Dodecanese at the time, who had made a proposal for VAT rates. The Government of Constantine Mitsotakis proposes to introduce reduced VAT rates and extend this measure to the northern Aegean in 1990 and then to the Cyclades in 2000. Is those reasons for imposing this institutional framework missing? Minister, you are very well aware that neither the geopolitical reasons nor the geographical discontinuance nor dozens of reasons justifying the imposition of these particular reduced rates are missing, which is also demonstrated by the questions of Members I put in the Minutes - the history of the future, but also governmental factors that they need to study - and indeed the responses from the European Commission and the European Parliament saying that to date the Member States do not abolish this derogation from the reduced VAT rates. In addition, I will testify that in Germany the island of Helgoland has zero rates, in Spain, a set of islands has zero rates, in France, in Corsica, in Italy, in Austria, in the Azores, in Portugal, in Madeira, in colonies, in Finland. I say this, for example, because it is not just VAT rates, it is the rates that government actors intend to abolish in terms of both the taxation of focus - which you know very well that it has been announced - and hence the tax on accommodation of 3% to 5%. In other words, the reduced rates of VAT are actually abolished. Double evil. And you know, Minister, because I have followed you very well, I have unlimited respect for your scientific background, conflict and cooperation situations are interpreted with the theory of games. Honestly, I am not in the mood of irony, but I confirm this position, that it is a presumption of our debate. I would like to ask you to review these important measures with which de facto de facto on the Aegean islands, in the tourist product, change is in hand and we must emphasise that. You must suspend this intent. Because today throughout Greece, for example, the focus is 9% on the islands, 13% on the whole of Greece. But at reduced rates relating to the tourism product in general, it is a question of survival rather than a privilege. It is a condition for business development and not a privilege. The consequences will be dramatic, Minister. Very telegraphically, there will be a decrease in the number of visitors. You have seen and encouraged you to see the study of both SETE in relation to the number of bookings in this period, as well as the letter of the President of SETE to the Prime Minister, but above all the study of the Institute of Tourism and Tax Studies. There is a strong indication of what it means to increase in coefficients in general in the tourism sector. So there will be a reduction in tax revenue, there will be an increase in unemployment, but above all there will be an infringing tax behaviour. I would therefore ask, Mr Minister, that we review and limit these intentions and that there is no intervention at the most important pillar of the economy, which is tourism, and in particular at the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u127	If I've interpreted correctly, Mr. Consola, you won't be using your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u128	If you judge it to be so insignificant, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u129	No, I hardly believe that the question you have asked is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u130	The Bureau has been very tolerant since this morning, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u131	There are thirteen questions, though. If any question is raised, Mr Nicholas, we are going to go beyond the Rules of Procedure 30 minutes, as has happened so far, we will probably be finished at night. I have no problem, but there are other jobs to be done, Mr Nicholas, and there must be respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u132	The new Bureau has another perception.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Nicolopoulos, you know very well that I have tolerance, but the tolerance has certain limits. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Yanis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Consola, it is a great pleasure to answer your question. As in general, I would like to say, Madam President, that it is a great pleasure to be in Parliament and to answer questions. It is one of the most pleasant moments of this difficult job, especially at a time when I spend most of my time in Brussels, where you know it is a procedure of purely non-parliamentary and a procedure that tries to cancel Parliament and not just ours. Now, let's come to the point. To be clear, because the world of the islands needs cleanliness. We must be absolutely brief and comprehensive. Last time I spoke on this matter, I very much said that it was not during this extension of the loan agreement that we could tolerate any increase in VAT on the islands. I went further and said that during the summer season there would be absolutely no increase. It's true. There will be no change until September at all. That's for granted. I must tell you, Mr Consola, something you know, but I would like to say it publicly in Parliament, that I have accepted very strong pressures to increase the VAT on the islands - particularly strong pressures! - to the extent that I think it needs to be tolerated in the psychiatric sphere. You go to Washington, and where there are so many more important issues to discuss, you are pressed for VAT on the islands or for pharmacy. There are some ideologies, some of the institutions' ideas, which I think at some point when this negotiation story is over, it would be advisable to discuss it, to analyse it and see why. I would like to tell you that both the Prime Minister and I do not miss a chance to argue with you about what you were saying. Mr Tsipras spent a long time explaining what was the thinking of reducing VAT on the islands, that it is not the same thing to transfer goods and people from Hamburg to Stuttgart and the same from Nisserro to Santorini. We use all reasonable arguments, and we use the examples you mentioned, for example, in the Canary Islands, where VAT is 5%, as well as other island complexes and Scotland, which, of course, are not in the Eurozone, where VAT and so on is much lower. You said in your question that the government has a great responsibility for the inconvenience created by the island population. I don't think we're responsible for this. We try everywhere and always say what I told you right now. The inconvenience is caused by the enormous pressure on the part of creditors, carried through the newspapers. Of course, there are issues. It is scandalous to me - and I think you will agree - that last summer we almost doubled the tourist movement in Mykonos and Santorini and had a reduction in VAT revenue. That is something we should not accept under any circumstances. It's a scandal. There are other ways, of course, of dealing with this, not with an increase in the rate. That goes against what we want to achieve. There is, for example, the thought of a ceiling on changes in cash, especially for tourists, which will increase VAT collection. I will commit myself to something right now, because, as you know, VAT is one of the big thorny issues of negotiation right now. There is no harm in harmonizing VAT, a streamlining of the VAT system. I think your government would think about it, too. My commitment, however, is that if there is an increase for the inhabitants of the islands, there will be a simple, electronic system, without any need for visits to ICUs - which, unfortunately, are closed down in many islands - to return the difference to the inhabitants of the islands if it is increased in the context of rationalisation and a harmonised VAT. The islanders will not pay any more VAT and there will be provision for a return on any increase. We're talking about the post-September era now. This year there will be no difference in this tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis. I personally believe that it is very important that the commitment it has given to the National Representation today is very important. Mr. Consola, you have the floor. Please, there must be timeliness.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would like to thank you for the assurance that at least until September there will be no increase in VAT rates on the islands. However, I have not heard you reassured in this Chamber whether the government or you will pursue an increase of 3% -5% in the residence tax, namely at night, or 3% in the focus, shops and businesses in general throughout the country. It would be very important for me to hear that as well. The truth is that I am aware of your sensitivities regarding the island region and I am pleased that you have mentioned the examples from Europe, where there are areas with zero VAT in relation to the national area. But, Minister, I would like to remind you once again that the geopolitical and geophysical reasons for the islands, as well as the reasons for the discontinuation, have not been omitted, for which these rates have been imposed as a whole. Because it is not only the reduced rate of VAT on the islands that we are concerned with. It is the de facto abolition of reduced rates, since there is an attempt to increase the rates for focusing and living, and especially for post-September, as you said. You need to make it clear after September what will happen. Will taxation increase in the focus, or overnight? The coefficients? I understand, of course, your sensitivity to say that there will be an electronic methodology for taxing. So, an island woman is going to the supermarket fund to pay, and then how is there going to be a return? How will there be a VAT refund? Minister, the problem is elsewhere. I believe that it is the wrong choice to charge taxes on our tourism in general, on tourism, on the back of our economy today throughout the country. Some say the problem in the country is the tax evasion on the islands. They are the ones who really need to see how to deal with this problem. Some people also think that the country's budgetary problem, as you said abroad and abroad, is due to tourism and that is why they have targeted it in general. It's a mistake, Minister. Tax evasion exists throughout Greece but also in other countries of Europe, and it is not just us. As far as accommodation is concerned, most transactions on the islands are transparent. They're made with contracts with the tour operators. If you want to believe it, too - and that is why I'm sure - we can hit the tax evasion, we can check the accommodations that operate without permission, we can check mechanisms for receipts. However, the measure of the compulsory use of a credit card for transactions over 70 euros seems to me to be moving rather in the sphere of fantasy and glaucoma. Tax evasion can be limited by the audit procedure - you have the experience from the international environment - with tax incentives and tax deduction for the use of plastic money. I think we all realise how important it is to shield the tourist economy at this time. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Consola, we can't have an in-depth debate right now. You understand why. Every time it's a wet deal. You should know that the specificity of the islands is something that we respect and carry with us in Brussels, Washington, where we negotiate. You should know that. We are consistent with this commitment, whatever the tax regime is ultimately to be chosen for the post-September period. I do not want to politicize now in the context of a classification, but I cannot stand it, I will say it. You're aggressing us that we don't close the deal any faster. And we want to close it fast. But when we have such thorns, it is very difficult - I am talking about myself personally - to sign just to close such an agreement when this problem and another hundred are wounds to the place. That is why the negotiation takes place, because we are negotiating on these issues. And that is only one of the many, which concerns injustices, ineffectiveness, the continuation of the crisis. More specifically - and I will close with that - you referred to the night. I will tell you that we have never considered a horizontal approach to the issue. We were talking about some hotel units of several stars, not of the room rentals, not of one or two stars. I do not say that it will happen, but I tell you that in the context of the consultation between us what we are proposing, the scale has always been progressive and not the people of the tourism sector who are more vulnerable. You referred to the issue of cash and the focus, the supermarkets, to the islands that go to the neighborhood grocery store. What we are trying to do is to have a low rate throughout the country, which is lower than the one on the islands today, so that the islander who goes to the grocery store does not get caught. If he wants to buy fur in Mykonos, then I don't mind paying higher VAT. If she buys not fur, but a good that is most rarely purchased - not what she buys in her daily lives - and we need to ask her to register the proof, to get back the difference in VAT, so that we respect the specificity of the islands, this is a concession that I will make to close the agreement faster.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Next is the sixth question, number 150/27-2015, on the reoccupation of former employees of the Achaias Bank in the National Bank of Greece. The Minister will answer Mr. Varoufakis. I understand now, Mr Nicholas - because I had not seen you coming in line - why you appealed to the Bureau for tolerance. You'll have tolerance, but we don't have to cross the line. Here, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, today is a 'black' day for the workers and the dividends in Achaea and the surrounding counties, which they believed and rightly did so, that cooperative banks could be and be a lever for growth. Why am I saying that? Minister, like today, just three years ago - tragic irony! - The Achaian Cooperative Bank is closed with what that means. Time doesn't allow me to expand. We came here today, mostly, for the workers. One amendment had also been tabled by us, the Christian Democratic Party - then I still did not cooperate with the Independent Greeks - by the Independent Greeks, by the SYRIZA MPs, from the JRC. I will tell you what this amendment was saying. He said it had to happen, precisely what happened with the Lesvos Cooperative, where the workers had the luck - because "they had barbas in Koroni", as the local press writes - to speak with Maximos, with Mr Samaras - and to go - to the National Bank, which became the bank manager. Wasn't it the same as ASPIS BANK? Didn't PROTON and others do the same? The workers came, therefore, not only from Achaia but also from three other cooperative banks and submitted this request to all political leaders who worked in Patras. Everyone has made a public commitment, Minister, that they will do the same. Three years have passed since then, as today and still ask for this self-evident. But, Minister, I would like to say that what you said is entirely related to what Mr Stournaras has said to give you, to bring you here to parliamentary control. Since this debate continues - and it seems that you have not been personally informed by Mr Draghi - I would like to say that if the Governor of the Bank of Greece did his job properly, control over the seas of the media and the other names - as if we were anonymous and keep in mind the BlackRock list, the 10,600,000 000 who have - whom? - the supposedly great ones who move our finger - then the systemic banks would have the fate of the cooperative banks. I am learning - and I want by the way, if you know, to tell us - that the main economic prosecutor has claimed and that the banks are already giving Mr Stournara that information. And now, I understand why Mr. Stournaras didn't give it to you to come to the House. Because the deception against the government has been sentenced to life imprisonment. Did something different happen at the T.T.? That's exactly the same thing, isn't it? Why are forty T.T.'s references? Same reason. Why, Madam President - I think we're about equal at age, you're my youngest - from TT's ranch - 'bean beans fill the bag' - to some, even to make Onassis buy Olympics - from TT! - and many more. Minister, please, on the occasion of the completion of three years, we want your commitment. It's not a new request, it's old, it's mature, everyone's adopted it. Of course, it does not cost either. It is the restoration of a great injustice, because it cannot have happened on the island that the former Minister of Justice is elected, because perhaps, he had a negotiable cause, he has many stitches for the fur of all those who have signed "seawater" and have a route like the one that Mr Stournaras has. You will allow me, Madam President, to present in the Minutes the PASOK communication and other documents, since it says that there is no point in the witch hunting, that Mr Stournaras has no point in presenting his resignation. So let us put it down in the Minutes, as Mr Kammenos said just now, that we should be acquainted with this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The Minister has the floor, Mr Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Nicolopoulos, as you know, before 2012, with the a.d. 178/2002, when a company was transferred, the rights and obligations under the contracts or employment relationships were transferred to the successor under the terms of employment resulting from those contracts. However, in 2012 with the Memorandum Law, Law 4051 had an amendment to the legal status of credit institutions so that Articles 4 and 5 of the Presidential Decree to which I referred - which protected workers in the event of the transfer or resolution of credit institutions - ceased to exist. It was another memorial inactivity on the part of the workers. You know that the Ministry of Finance has general supervision of the operation of the financial system but it does not supervise credit institutions. Responsibility for their supervision has exclusively the Bank of Greece. In other words, I as the Minister of Finance, my Ministry, do not have the power to interfere with the decisions of administrations or control them on any matter, particularly by recruitment and redundancies. The Ministry of Finance fully respects the independence of the Bank of Greece. I would like to add a comment. Independence works from both directions. Under no circumstances am I going to violate the independence of the Bank of Greece and even comment on the way it is doing its work. However, this should also work from the opposite side. The Bank of Greece should remain independent, respect independence from its side and not interfere with comments on government work. In conclusion, in the case of the Haitian Bank, we have the implementation of a Memorandum of Understanding, which basically 'fired' these workers. The staff of the banks, which has been in this position, unfortunately, cannot be covered by the Ministry of Finance. I have no right, as I have told you, to speak on these issues, and in particular, as you have said, I unfortunately do not have the opportunity - and I will not do so, because it would be an institutional violation - to address the President of the National Bank with this request. Of course, the question you raised quite rightly raises a more comprehensive question of the gap that we had from 2012 to a state in which no one is ultimately responsible for the inadequacies that have been done against workers. We have a Ministry of Finance, a government with countless cases of injustices and creditors who, in the context of the negotiations that are currently under way, want other such injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty one students and students and four teachers - attendants of the 1st Marathona Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I must repeat that in November 2014, that is, on a memorandum, fired by the Lesvos and Lesvos Cooperative Bank, they were hired to the National Bank, but not all of them. The local press writes that they had contacts with the environment of the Prime Minister of Mr Samaras and that this is how they were settled. In April 2012, an amendment is tabled to the House, almost all of the members of the SYRIZA Parliament and myself and perhaps other colleagues, who will forgive me if I do not remember to mention them. I am tabling the amendment for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We don't want you to outlaw it. The opposite we want you to do. So, if we vote on this amendment committed to Patras by Antonis Samaras, Vangelis Venizelos, all the political leaders, these few employees of the Lamia Cooperative Bank, Patras and other regions - but they will have the same fate of all those who have been absorbed at times when the banking institutions have ceased to operate, regardless of what reasons. Please, Minister, consider the amendment again. I imagine you haven't kept Mr. Bano yet. Don't give it to Mr. Bano. Leave it, Mr. Banos has other serious business. He has SIEMENS and other serious business Mr Banos. However, I wonder how Yiannis Varoufakis actually comes here and says "it is the policy of the state" but Banos can go and represent the state and defend the interests of the State, by being identified, not with the views of the Greek state. I cannot understand that, my Minister, nor with the left-wing government, as I did not understand it with the right-wing government. If you look for parliamentary control, you will find that when I was a member of the New Democracy I asked a few questions about him, about Giannis Stournaras, about his best man Papantoniou, about this whole group, who in a strange way as you heard before, lives and reigns. Do not give the amendment to them. They have serious jobs to do. Give it to someone who can understand what it means to lose your job. Mr. Stournaras who swings our hand, thirty years is state-run, with wages you can't imagine, or you probably know them. Look, the note I made to read the glorious career of a state-runner, you tell me, in his hands now, to send the future of people who don't have their children to live! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Mr. Varoufakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, we will look at the amendment. On the other hand, I have to say to you institutions as Minister of Finance that I will not make any move at all, which is questionable institutions. As I said before, I fully respect the independence of both the Justice and the Legal Council, as well as of course the Bank of Greece. I may have personal views on specific options, but other things are personal views and institutional interventions. The fact that some used to make ruffles will not be a guide for what we should do. I am very sympathetic to you - you know that - the Achaean Bank's fired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u147	And the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u148	But we have a whole mass of people who are victims of the Memorandum disaster in recent years. Our policy will not be fragmentary and will not be based on addressing some of them on different criteria than others. If there have been amendments in the past or there have been some intakes on the basis of unfair procedures, the state's best revenge is not to repeat them and to address the problem as a whole, targeting the crisis, which produces these victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u149	Thank you to Mr Varoufakis and to the commitment he has made. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the issue of Friday 15 May 2015, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 186/5-2015 topical question by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the study of the settlement - delimitation of the great stream of Rafina. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Georgios Kasapidis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Kosanis, on his excellent report. for good health claims on the label of Greek olive oils. 3. The 173/30-4-2015 topical question by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the risk of defamation of Greek agricultural products due to the uncontrolled use of illegal pesticides. 4. The question raised by Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou on the cancellation of the programme to promote the consumption of fruit in schools for the current period. 5. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning recourse to the justice of television stations to the decisions of the Minister of State to pay the fee for the use of frequencies. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 181/5-2015 topical question by MP Argolidos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Kidelas to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the certificate of knowledge and training in the rational use of agricultural medicines. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 166/28-4-2015 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the exploitation of our national wealth and energy policy. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 1402/1-4-2015 question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the delay in posting forest maps and measures to protect forests and forest lands. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP II, Mr Georgios Amyras, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the commitments made by the Government on environmental and energy issues. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the River Mr Spyridon Danellis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy about the late payments of the “House Settlement Programme”. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy about the biomass plant in Kopanadas in P.E. Hercules. 5. The question asked by Mr Andreas Loverdos by MP II of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the Regulatory Authority for Energy. The third question with number 407/3-2015 of the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and MP I of Athens, Nikita Kaklamanis, will be discussed to the Minister of Health, regarding the resignations of hospital governors. Because we have a similar topical question with the same content as Mr Constantine Barriot's Member of Parliament, Mr Barriot, who refers to the procedure for selecting the administrations of hospital units, I propose - in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and Article 131(4), which says exactly 'fresh questions which refer to the same subject are debated at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time' - and with the consent of the Minister to discuss the two questions together. This means that both can develop the issue but allow the Minister to answer a single one. Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u150	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u151	We'll start with Mr. Kaklamanis and Mr. Barriots will follow. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this question, of course, was tabled on 3 March 2015. Two months later, he comes to talk. I had tabled it as written, simple, waiting for the answer. So I want to have a very specific answer today on your behalf. For short periods, it is well known the legislative framework under which the hospital managers were chosen. Also, in the same law, fortunately, there is the issue of their evaluation and efficiency and when the Minister - because the governors have a three-year term - based on evaluation and performance, can send them off without the Greek State having to pay compensation. Today, I don't know what's happened. Have you accepted this legal framework? If you have accepted it, you must say so clearly so that these commanders feel - except in cases where I told you because of non-performance, etc. - I'm sure they'll be out of three years so they can work as they should. Why am I saying 'as should'? Because half the people think you're gonna take them off and have the pencils down, they don't know what to do, and the other half show hyperpatriotism, believing that they're gonna moved you to keep them. And one is wrong, those who do it, and the other is wrong, those who do it - I don't know. So I want you to give me a clear answer today, what you are going to do with the terms of office of the governors. If an evaluation has been made, I would like you to send us to the House the findings of the evaluations, to get to know each other. And answer whether there are also substantiated reasons, in addition to evaluating efficiency - perhaps some governors have made misconduct, I do not know - that you are also entitled to dismiss them or not or if you intend to take a legislative initiative, as I did in 2004. I solved this issue, without any need for compensation to the public - I imagine you remember, even though you had reacted and did not vote for that draft law - and I was given the opportunity after six months when I did so, to do the evaluation. And remember that I kept about 25% of the governors I found, because they were worthwhile hospital commanders and continued, not to tell you they were among the best. I would therefore ask that I have a very specific answer to these and to dentistry - since I have found you here - I will not take you to another question I have tabled but to two - three urgent issues that I think you may not know and can give a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Mr Constantine Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u154	Minister, thank you too for coming. The question is still pending, as is written and up-to-date, from about the same date as Mr Kaklamanis said. Mr. Kaklamanis quickly described the current law of 4052/2012. Let me just add that this is indeed the procedure that it provides for. I am not going to say that the procedure has been respected in the recruitment of former governors without any exception or without party derogations. However, there is a procedure, that is the law in force. In addition, the law provides for a replacement by a list of rated officials, which I think are around four hundred, and obliges the current governors to replace if they are judged to be inappropriate or inappropriate to perform their duties, by the existing list. This is the legal framework that exists. You have stated, among other things, to Larissa at the hospital I worked until recently, that you think you have the right to hire your partners. Recently - I do not know if it is accurate, correct me if it is not - you also said that these positions are political. Along with the clear answer Mr Kaklamanis asked for on how to replace administrations in hospitals, I ask whether there will be a new law or whether the old one will be respected, because I see no other procedure. I would also like, on the occasion of clarification, to say what 'political positions', because what I understand as a citizen yesterday and what is understood by the Greeks is that politics is the policy of the one who takes on by a party mechanism in fact, paid out by the public, to carry out ruffles, favors and influence the public's function for the benefit of a party. That's the perception. Maybe it's wrong, you might have something else on your mind. I am of particular interest to hear your opinion on this matter. A final question, then, is this. Will there be a new law? Will there finally be a clear procedure with qualifications, with notices and a clear selection procedure according to qualifications and notices, or will it be a pretext, if there is a notice, like the President of the EEAS recently, which, without the ministerial decision provided for by the law on qualifications, the crisis procedure and the way in which the candidate is judged, is, in fact, pretext? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, both questions of great value and good colleagues are interesting. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the role of managers in hospitals is a painful story. Unfortunately, so far we have to admit that this bond has not produced what all of the ministers of all the parties who have passed this ministry have looked forward for many reasons. However, as you have rightly pointed out, there is an institutional framework. I must tell you, therefore, that this institutional framework has not been respected in the most remarkable way. So there was a procedure. A committee was first set up, on which there is a question from the services, that its composition was not entirely legitimate. But I don't live there. There was an announcement and an evaluation was made. Mr Kaklamani, I address you because we have known each other for many years. Evaluation and listing in alphabetical order I in my policy and on my legal path, first I've seen. To get over this, too. The fact that all these two hundred people were equal? But I'll get over it, too. And go to one more thing. A lot of people from those who were placed quit and put in place people without being drawn from the list. This is the picture I have today, and I have to tell you. These people were placed and the institutional framework stipulates that there should have been evaluation reports. They never happened. Even for the contracts for the assessment reports, the law, as it says, was not taken into account. Today, then, a new government has come with completely other political features. And because we are talking and knowing and we all know each other, and democracy has rules and has institutions, I have not demanded anyone. I sent a letter and asked for the resignations to be made available. This does not mean that I had a purpose for all of this world, considering all these people are incapable. For God's sake! Besides, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where there was another regime, people who were in the previous administrations have been detained. The government has not yet decided whether to proceed with the abolition of the law. However, I have commanded the Heads of State or Government today, even late, since the procedure for evaluation reports by their predecessors has not been observed, to proceed to evaluation reports. I can assure you that either in this way or in any other way, if it is finally decided to come up with a provision - like you, Mr Kaklamani, then you have made progress - you are not going to leave all these people. That is our decision. There are people, commanders, who are really doing their job very well. I could also tell you, Mr Kaklamani, certain people whose work I really recognise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kaklamanis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u158	Minister, I will answer you. I did, in fact, annoyed, as you remember, the positions and made another law and I had the political courage and said, "I will put them all." In what sense 'I'? So that you know then as a member of the opposition or the citizens, that if I had made a rheumatological position, I was the culprit, and so with me you would have put it. And, of course, I was also responsible for the one who appointed me as Minister, that is, the then Prime Minister. If I say "I", I mean that I signed, there was no council but remember that I made an interview six months. I brought people from abroad. So my objection isn't there. But I heard you say - your answer partly covered me - on the legality of the committee. If I'm not mistaken, the Vice-President of the SAP took part in this committee and went out to "DIAGY" the series of successful ones. I also heard that you said some people quit and placed others outside the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u159	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u160	Before you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u162	I would then like you to tell me no names, not to mention names that are not present but to which hospitals were those who resigned and entered other people off the list, because I don't know them. You're probably right, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u163	I'll send them to your office.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u164	And I expect you to have made the political decision on the possible change of law, as you said, and of course I insist that you bring to Parliament, when they come to you, the assessments to see them too. Now, Minister, I would like to inform you about two or three things. I have a particular sensitivity, as you know, because I have set up for twenty-five years at the "Artite" Hospital. That's where I operated on my health adventure. Right now, the anesthetic department, Minister, is less than six people. From eleven, he's now with five anesthetics. I don't have to analyse what that means. Why do I put it on you? I don't put it to you to say "Appoint tomorrow", because I know it's difficult but university hospitals have been excluded from the institution of the paramedical doctor. I think it is unfair, that you should bring it immediately - and I think that unanimously the House will support it - an amendment that can also be appointed to the purely university hospitals for subsidiary doctors. So that is the one thing I wanted to put to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u165	I'm telling you in advance that I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u166	Good, I'm glad to hear you agree. You'll say it in your dentistry. My second point is that, because I was a radiation therapist, I tell you that there has always been a problem with radiation therapy, Minister, with waiting lists. I know the problem at the San Savvas Hospital, and I hope it will be solved when the two new machines are installed, which are donations but that's okay, that's fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u167	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u168	What concerns me, however, is that the Kourkoulia has not yet worked and I know that there is a clause in the convention that if it does not work until June - which is so drawn - the state will have to return back to the Latsis family the 5 million. Please look at it personally, get over the red tape and doctors' rivalries. Here's what I'm telling you. You know what I mean. We need this thing to work. It is useful and cannot only be with the power of doctors and staff from "Savva". Now, with subsidiary staff, give an emphasis there too. I'm closing up with an issue we're going to discuss next time, but I've been putting it to you from today on your mind. It was a tragic mistake what Mr. Loverdos did and took from the Ministry of Health the welfare piece and took it to the Ministry of Labour, tragic and fundamental, tragic and economic. Because you know that the property of the former PICA had been recorded, in essence of welfare, and it is a huge property, which is important to exploit. This is something that has gone to the Ministry of Labour and nothing has happened now, since 2006, since I left, nothing at all. Madam President, we are talking about real estate, which the assessment of the Treasury then brought it up to EUR 3 billion. It won't be 3 billion now, the prices have fallen. You want it to be half a billion euros? Do we understand what amounts we're talking about? With the money that would be collected - not divestment, because they were benets, exploiting this property - all the welfare needs could be met without the state giving money. In her honor, Mrs. Fotou took it. I have sent her this work but I believe that intra-government care - you understand that better than anyone else - must return to the Ministry of Health and all this must be done within the Ministry of Health and Welfare or Social Solidarity. Call it whatever you want, but go back to her dorm.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Mr Constantine Barriotas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be as brief as possible. From what I understand, the replacement of hospital administrations is probably postponed at the moment and will go back if I understand it correctly. Perhaps we will be given the opportunity to discuss this again and perhaps more extensively under better conditions. However, in the meantime, until the government decides how and in time, it would be a good thing, Minister, to know how many governors resigned before, how many commanders submitted their resignations after your request and the pressures that have been exerted by the press to resign, how many of those who have remained have a negative assessment. I would also be very curious, and I would ask an ACP, soon to be given the instrument with which they were assessed. What I know is that all over the world, 'good' or 'bad' does not result from the assessment of one - perhaps right - but from some specific objective measuring tool. I'd be very curious, because it's not under the law. I imagine the Ministry may have something like that, an evaluation tool. However, I shall also address Mr Kaklamani, I am very afraid. I think that, without questioning anyone's good intentions, the way in which hospital administrations are appointed over time does not solve the problem, no matter how well the Minister has in mind. The maladministration in public hospitals, which we all know and live for, and the doctors have lived for it every day with stories of everyday madness, brings waste and ineffectiveness. The maladministration of the party is being fought by stable, transparent institutions. So we will call on you, after I am glad to hear that you are discussing and questioning the government - and I am glad you are doing so - for a new, possibly, law, to bring a law that is transparent, to provide for clear selection procedures, qualifications and a transparent procedure, because that was the 'collaps' - and let me express - from Papadopoulos time to time. There were qualifications, there was the notice, except someone who had forgotten to legislate on the procedure whereby this procedure was chosen and made transparent. We never learned who they were candidates, what they qualified and no one had the right to object to this. There is the "achilian heel" of the system of notices. I would say - and I will agree with you - that not only formal papers are enough, but also co-operation and morality and political affinity. But that too, Minister. There are procedures all over the world. You can well do the so-called'shortlist' with rating criteria and do an interview for the capitals three or four and get among them the most collaborative or the most appropriate. This is something completely ruthless and common throughout the world. But it would allow me to disagree with your statement, which I mentioned earlier, that it is your right to choose your partners. I think it is an obligation for the administration to choose its partners among the best and indeed with respect for the law. I'm glad to hear that a new law will come down and, as I said, we're waiting for a law as I described it to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u171	The Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u172	Madam President, I am sincerely pleased that both honourable Members have tabled thoughts and concerns which are useful. I, at least, consider them very useful and say so with all honesty. On the question of administrations, we really have to admit that all these years, in the first or second ways, which were chosen each time for a position to be positioned, did not endure many times in the temptation of the parties to choose people who were in some way able to work with them better. That was not the only issue that caused problems. The result was what created the problems, because many times choices did not serve those who could actually contribute to this effort. So I have to tell you - and I think you are collecting this from people you know - that I have no obsessed, because these people were placed by other political leaders. I've returned, Mr. Kaklamani, all of Greece. I have had gatherings in all regions where the governors were first and best. They took the floor, I talk to too many people, and I don't think there can be a man who tells you he asked to see me and I haven't accepted him. I'm saying that, to be informed. Once they have had the institutional role, I have to cooperate with them and consider them as my partners. From there on, of course, I confessed to you and told you that I think it should have been because of the democratic principle that the resignations should have been made available to me. In the very critical and useful points made by my predecessor, Mr Kaklamanis, on the question of assistants in university hospitals, I would like to say that I find this very useful. Perhaps we did not have time to put it, Mr Kaklamani, on the amendment we had last week for the assistants, where we reduced their recruitment time. Because, you know, unfortunately, there was a problem there, because we wanted five months to get an assistant. The assistant you know is coming to meet immediate needs. So we decreased the time in twenty days and increased the time from one to two, because experience showed that in the Aegean, for example, where too many positions had been proclaimed, the world did not go for such matters as in other regions. On the question of doctors who come to cover, Mr Kaklamani, we also want your help, because we need to reduce the time spent by new permanent doctors in hospitals. There can't be this regime that's been in place until today, that you know better than I do, that to get a doctor, you want a year and a half, with the crises, with the objections, with the procedures, with doctors' decisions to take a position and then resign and you have to start another procedure, to go to another position that was decided. It's a strange time-consuming regime, which we have to go through right now. I will bring the matter to the Committee on Social Affairs too, and I believe that there will be a contribution from everyone, because these issues do not seem to me to separate us, but they unite us. The third issue concerns the unit in 'Saint Savva', 'Kourkoulio'. Mr Kaklamani, we must all admit here that this sector has - and I say this to you - very great weaknesses. For two years there has been an offer from the Niarchus Foundation of renewing half the radiological equipment, provided that staff are recruited. I gathered, Mr. Kaklamani, at the first meeting I organized at the Ministry, which lasted five hours, all of the country's oncology clinics. We have discussed the problems and it is unacceptable for a modern state in this difficult area, which we are all talking about, to be delayed. The decision, therefore, of the Ministry's political leadership, is the first recruits, Mr Kaklamani, to be in the oncology divisions. So, after that meeting, we were told that we need a hundred and twenty - three doctors, nurses and technicians. I promise that there will be decisive support for these areas. The first recruits will go to this place, because here we have to show whether, in fact, it echoes what we say, that we are sensitive to these issues in fact. Of course, as far as this unit is concerned, there will be full support for the operation of this unit, because there are also conditions, as you have rightly pointed out, but also through the permanent staff we are going to place, we will support the creation and operation of this unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The fourth question by number 1774-5-2015 will be discussed now, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the need for the immediate repayment of the sums due to hospitals in Achaia. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u174	Minister, I can't avoid commenting. You know what's going on with this whole story, mostly, with the radiological units. It does not work in Patras, in "Agios Andreas", for years, at the university or at Agrinio, to reap some acquaintances that come out every day and make the representative and move the finger. The morals and the legal ones aren't coming in, are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u175	I spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u176	I didn't say anything about you, Mr. Kaklamani. I'm talking. I didn't say about you. I wanted to take this opportunity...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u177	You talked about radiological.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u178	Yeah, I'm not talking about this, but something else that makes him smile at Mr. Kurubli. Is it possible that Mr. Kourublis doesn't know what's going on in Agrinio and that you're a State Secretary and that you're also a representative of Mr. Samaras? So, the commander appointed over there, can't run. Right, Mr. Curublis? Am I right or have you heard nothing? You haven't heard anything. Today, Minister, we are here on a subject that you know about. I say, you know about the "Love Ark", a privileged institution, because from the first days and you have seen them and heard them, and you have won them, because you have also shown knowledge of the problem you have and of the sensitivity that you have. Only now, we must - and unfortunately here are the hard ones - prove it. Minister, I had the misfortune, the first and last time I met with the troika, within its demands that all these benefits and benefits be limited. You know very well, I have a child in the range of autism. So it was absolutely impossible for me to live in this situation and I, as a competent person, put my signature on it. But I said it to provoke you now. Do you know that the "Love Ark" will be closed? And why would he shut down while having a wave of charity? Years now, from New York, from Melbourne, from all Achai, years old, every year, the primary schools, the high school, big companies of Patras, have secured the feedingstuffs for these children who have been abandoned by their parents. Most people never go to see them. They want not to remember that they have such a child. You know what I'm talking about, because you have picture and knowledge. You said they'd get the amounts due in October, November, December. They were told: 'Get insurance and tax information'. They didn't pay the workers to set up to testify this information. Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible that they have been asked for a new information system for three months? They are told: 'Get us back and bring us back.' They've been left without a euro, Minister, and you know that, I'm sure. I'll give you the letter you've received, but I'm sure, because you've been placed in public. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, what are we going to do? In the three months of last year, will they forget them? Takis, my old partner, promised what he promised you and, unfortunately, proved to be lying. He paid privately, paid private stores and didn't pay there. He paid for a month. Will you tolerate it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u180	Madam President, make the microphones here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u181	I'll give an order, Minister, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u182	Good. Madam President, I am aware of the previous colleague and his particular real sensitivities on these issues. And he knows that as he himself lives a peculiarity in his life, because of the child, so I lived six years in three different institutions. So, I know exactly what a privileged institution means. Mr. Nicolopoulos, I was Secretary General at the Ministry of Health when all these institutions were threatened to be closed down. And then my veteran ingenuity led me to characterize beds in these institutions as beds of chronic illness and to establish the hospital, which really saved both the institutions of the Church and all these privileged institutions from the threat of collapse. So now we give them 34 euros and take them away from the state 'clowback' - that is, it imposes 'clowback' and'rebate' on these institutions - when we all know the big parties that took place in this area, in the health field, when we all know that there are multinational drug companies with 300 and 400 million euros and have no profits and no one talks. Institutions, however, are in this situation. So, Mr Nicolopoulou, despite the difficulties - and to pass this message - the 'clowback' will be abolished in the welfare institutions. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Greece will not be saved from this 'clowback'. There are other possibilities to save Greece and we must all do so together. Because in this Chamber - I believe what I am saying - we are serving in the overwhelming majority of Members elected by the people, patriots and, above all, we are coming - the overwhelming majority - from the same social strata of this winter society. So I am watching and intervening with what you said and said - you can be sure - and since the question came into my hands. I apologise for not responding immediately but as you can see, I am in a ministry, which the fifteen hours on the day I am there - and whoever is looking for me will find me in these hours - is not enough to deal with these many and heated problems you are called upon to face. It is therefore an issue that I am following and I must tell you that we are not staying there. And semi-autonomous living units will be better treated. They'll join the EEA and they'll be supported by the state. And I have to tell you that only the family who lives the suffering of a child with autism, with mental discomfort, are the most flawed witnesses of what exactly economic and social costs are being incurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The speaker, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, has the floor for three minutes, to answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u184	Madam President, let me say that today, with this clear position, Mr Kurublis justifies his presence at the Ministry. It was and is extremely important that the announcement he said was made. They know the people who have taken over this cross. I am not talking about parents and guardians, but about all those who live on board the boards and workers in these institutions, not the institutions of the state or any other private clinics. You know very well - Mr Kurublis knows this, but I say it, because he is watching and several of the sessions - that it is EUR 290 per patient's daily health costs. There are also such clinics that we are paying and EUR 140 - you have heard just before, how much the Minister said - for some children, who only have seen them, can understand if we need the undivided support of all of us and not just the state. Here, Minister, you spoke of 34 euros. So, listen, there's an OGA contract for children who are not there, who are children, and they are kept by the "Love Ark", because this state has been unable to do anything more. Tell my dear fellow Members and colleagues there that most of them are congregational institutions, which some poor priests did, such as James Liaromatis, a lame priest, who did ten institutions in Patras, one of whom is that. Well, for them it is only 28 euros a day, Minister, and they do not denounce the contract with the OGA - you know it, I just remind you - nor do they recognize it. Please look at this, too, because it creates very serious problems. Today, however, the rest of the Love Ark, Madam President, is at Piraeus Bank EUR 2,787 and at the National Bank EUR 398. They are invited to serve sixty-eight to seventy children for western Greece, where there is nothing else. That's not a state structure, and that's why it's been hugged, as I just told you, by high school, high school children. I have nothing but to ask the Minister not to repeat what happened, my Minister, when the national anniversary came to your office and you saw them, you reacted immediately. You've given orders. The local press made it a first theme. All the newspapers said: 'Here, Kurubls has given a solution'. And yet private diagnostic centers, private clinics from the EEA, were paid and the "Love Ark" was not paid, as you said in public at the time. So please, now that you're going back to the ministry, let's check them out. Don't leave us exposed. God bless you, Minister! And where we worship the hand of Psalmaid or Bobola, it's okay, I and you shall worship the bones of St Barbara.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, I have no more to add than I have said. I just want to say that all of us as a modern and civilized society must defend in the most reliable way the right to the dignity of all those who, because of their specificity, cannot defend her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will now discuss the seventh under number 115/20-4-2015 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health on the timetable for the abolition of the Anonymous Society of Remunerations of the Hospitals “ESAN SA”. The Minister of Health will answer Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Congressman Zacharias has the floor for two minutes to develop his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in September 2014, the Anonymous Society of Hospital Remuneration System was set up in spite of the intense reactions of doctors' trade unions, nurses and other staff of hospitals, patients' and political parties. Where did the reactions stand? They relyed on the fact that the RCF is a neoliberal tool based, in turn, on closed consolidated hospitals, on CENs, based on diagnostic homogeneous disease units. These systems are responsible for the costing of medical operations and the allocation of funding, the evaluation of public hospitals and private clinics according to their productivity. In addition, the calculation of cost rates includes the payroll of doctors. Thus, hospital doctors and administrations seek to bring about accurate and short-term hospitalisation with a view to achieving greater funding in a competitive environment, an environment which, as the explanatory memorandum to the law said at the time, composes quality reports from the hospital from where the data come from and allows patients to compare different hospitals with their therapies provided. This prospect promotes competition between hospitals and produces a decisive benefit in the health sector as a whole. But, Minister, we cannot rely - above all public health - on cost-benefit ratios. We need to see the peculiarity of private hospitals. So the tool is useless. The public hospitals today are overly indebted. However, they will always be incomplete, even without today's budgetary conditions, because they are called upon to heal years and heavy incidents. Hospitals in the region and small health centres are required, whether urban or rural. So public health will always be a deficit. On the other hand, private hospitals can hire, choose incidents, invest in flexibility and always aim for profit. In any case, the operation, the RCF, is charged to the State with a budget for its operational needs of EUR 1 million. And already by decision of Mr Vorides, three days before the elections on 25 January, the Supervisory Board was set up, the members of the Supervisory Board were appointed and they are already paid for. And this year the Supervisory Council will be costing 177 000 euros. On the other hand, there are deadlines for the implementation of the system. On 1 July it is planned to start piloting and from 1-1-2016 to generalise the use of the system in all hospitals, private and public. So, since health is not a merchandise and hospitals are not competitive enterprises that obey market laws, but are public enterprises providing health services and care for all people who are sick and must be treated according to their needs - they are not impersonal pricing codes - and because the funding must be under the supervision of the public and the Ministry of Health and not ultimately assigned to a private limited company, you ask: Will you finally abolish RSAN, as was the commitment of the political body to which you are currently in the administration, the government and, in any case, the payment of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board? There is one question I can ask in dentistry to develop.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u189	In your dentistry, Mr. Zacharia, because I forgot to put time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u191	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u192	Madam President, the current government's choice is to support the public health system. And it is not a simple choice that serves purpose but a conscious choice. Because we consider it necessary to have such a system, qualitatively upgraded, a system that ensures all people access to life and death, that there is no discrimination, that there is a system which does not link human welfare to its economic and social position, a system that is strategically designed to prevent, with primary organised care, starting from the neighborhood, a system that safeguards the rights of the patient, a system that will inspire the sense of security, that there is a social state, even now, under these very difficult conditions that home and society are going through. After all, life itself has shown that at these times the citizen needs the organized state, in other words, when it is difficult for him to bear the burden of dealing with these problems that may be met. That is why the Prime Minister's visit to the Ministry of Health and the announcement of four and a half thousand recruitments are concrete options. In this context, therefore, Mr President, a modern institutional framework will come to Parliament, which will shape the terms and conditions in which this whole system will have to be developed. We do not believe that the expansion of this system in the private sector can provide the services that we expect to offer to Greek society. We therefore believe that the existence of this body - I do not know what the conception was and what the content was about - does not currently serve a modern, public system that needs institutions that operate and not serve positions of particular people. That is why the new institutional framework will change radically. We, of course, are not opposed to the existence, Mr Colleague, of a price system. However, those who arrested this idea were primarily required to have - if they had - an image of what state the IT system is in. My good old companion, Mr. Loverdos, had promised that in a period of time the system would have been completed. I will invite him to come to the Ministry to see what I have received in the IT sector: systems that have been paid up to 80% and have been dismantled from the programme, systems that do not speak to each other. I'm not an expert on information systems either. But a simple question I asked the HICP: 'Do all these systems speak with each other and with the HICP?' Whoever's in doubt, we can have a meeting at the Ministry. I will also convey this information to the Committee on Social Affairs, because I have opened a dialogue with the Committee on Social Affairs, so that Members of all the parties know what has happened. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that in this new institutional framework, all this institution that has been voted on will be redefined, because we believe that such an institution does not in any way serve to monitor, evaluate and cost the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Minister. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, before we give the floor to Mr. Zacharias, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-three students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 9th Municipal School of Chios, as well as from the Municipal School of Chora in Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Zechariah, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, perhaps it was worth the while to wait four weeks for your answer. I think that parliamentarians will be able to contribute to the formulation of a bill on the immediate needs that exist, but also to the formation of a bill containing elements of public health planning in the next few years. With this bill, we must also abolish this useless tool of the hospital pay system, i.e. the REAN. Minister, you mentioned that there should be some invoicing and evaluation tools. Of course they can be used. But all this, the KEN-DRG's, the homogenized diagnoses, have been surrounded with a completely neoliberal character in the modern world. And their history, of course, led them there. So all they accept is the famous duplex of cost-benefit, efficiency and evaluation with a distorted content. The experience of applying the protocols in this way has led to too many times in testimonials in very short time, which a German comrade called them 'bloods'. On the other hand, they increase surgery and compress the wages and quality of working conditions in hospitals and health units. That is why we must use them with a lot of thought, like others, i.e. diagnostic protocols, which must be established in cooperation with scientific bodies and, in any case, without harming patients' universal access to hospitals. In conclusion and in the hope of abolishing the next bill to come by the CEN, I would like to tell you that even today, even the CEN operates and excludes equal access - even in today's conditions - to a large group of people, such as the citizens of third countries and migrants who are in our country without papers, because they charge them at a rate of 2,09 the hospital, which is twice and price compared to what Greek citizens are charged with. So, given that this has been done by ministerial decision, I think that without delay you should bring a new ministerial decision to abolish this dimension of the CENs and introduce full access to the health of all the people who live in it - at least in the health field, which is the most sensitive area - and with the same rights, so that there is a universal right for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Zacharia. The Minister for Health, Mr Kurublis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u196	Mr Colleagues, the points you made are correct. However, it is necessary for us all to understand that the system must have control and self-control mechanisms, because we all know the difficulties that exist. To date we have all witnessed the phenomena that they endeavored and still endeavored, because there is no cost monitoring system at their source. We are therefore working uninterruptedly to improve these systems, to be able to proceed with the e-patient file and to change the dating model so that the world does not have that cost. We are also trying to complete the system of combating fraud and, at the same time, we are establishing four negotiating committees which should have operated for three, four years, once the EEAY had set up. He would have saved the public too much money. So I think that, despite the difficulties that exist, there is room, with correct rationalisation, both economic and staff, for all of us to be able to work together and work together. We're open. We have started a debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. At this point, in fact, I would like to thank the Members of all the parties who have put their backs on - let me say, Mr President - to find a solution to this Arta Bridge called the Ambulance Competition. Very soon we will be tabling our proposal for pharmaceutical policy, because we want to support the production of medicinal products in Greece. So we will create jobs and strengthen research in this area. So there are too many possibilities in a climate of understanding and cooperation. I therefore call on all political forces to coexist in such an effort, because I believe that health unites people. When, despite our different approaches, we are in a good mood, I am sure we can offer too much. And that is the responsibility of the political system and the civilian staff in this difficulty. It's a luxury to shoot the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The ninth, under number 106/20-4-2015, topical question by Mr Kyriakos Harakidis, on reports by the manufacturer (Lockheed Martin) on the reconstruction of the old-fashioned P-3B aircraft and of Airbus' counter-proposals, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. We enter the tenth under number 123/20-4-2015 a topical question by MP II Athens of Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Health regarding health measures for the protection of the citizens of Pyrgos Ilias due to the accumulation of waste in the area. The current question by Mr Papachristopoulos will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis. Mr Papachristopoulos, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I want to be honest. When the question was asked, it was indeed timely. The administrative part has been discussed. Mr. Voutsis answered it. Measures already taken. At the moment, too, garbage is being collected in the Tower slowly, but at such rates as are no longer posing risks to public health, despite the fact that this has not ended. Thirteen thousand tons of garbage stacked eight months, which was a full - time news. You must have heard it too! Today - because I do not like to exaggerate or inspire panic - I have spoken with the Medical Association of the Tower and has somehow been normalized, even though a large part has been transferred to small municipalities or small villages, such as Agios Giorgis, Salmoni and Olympia. I would like to believe that with the saying - and this is the end of at least our conversation with Mr Voutsi - the 'holy horror wants' has called on them, pressed them, and I think it was a good thing then. I was just sensitive because I had gone to Haiti twice, Minister, the first with earthquakes and the second with five hundred thousand cholera cases. I remember what the trash was back then. I do not want to go back to this. I want the Bureau, however, and because I also have a small complaint from the Minister, who is not to blame, to say that I am not in a opposition mood to him, because I know exactly what he is pulling and what he is doing, to do a little indulgence of mine. I'm a man whose public health area was his second home and still is. Excuse me to tell you that I'm one of the doctors I'm still doing social medicine. I never had a private office. I mean, the health field for thirty-seven years has served him in my own way. A little something I need to know about public hospitals. And on the occasion that we contacted German colleagues a few days ago, I would remind you that 80% of German hospitals are public and only one 20% are private. As also, something similar is happening in the Netherlands, and I would like to say that you have received a treasure neglected for many decades and now call on you to resurrect it. If I may, Minister, why don't you see me in the premier chambers of the ministries - I have the feeling that the Members of Parliament must have the institutions and not ask for ruffles - I want to remind you that you have five - six things that should have been done yesterday. I hear you're making an effort for the hundred and sixty beds in the intensive care units. I want to remind you that two and a half thousand people die every year from the lack of these beds and not just the sixty, which I hear you're going to work on, but we have half of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Papachristopoulos, I'm sorry. Let me let you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u200	A little grace, I haven't spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u201	Let me tell you. I interrupted you and I'll explain why. You have the right to three-minute dentistry. Also, the issues you are referring to are of course very important, which concern...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u202	They're very important, and I don't have the opportunity to see the Minister. I don't see him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u203	But listen. The question to see the point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u204	I said it's no longer timely. I myself recognised it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u205	You have it and you will have it, as all my fellow Members have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u206	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u207	I'm saying you're entitled to three-minute dentistry. So some of the issues you are addressing can be mentioned there, if you are satisfied with the Minister's first answer to your main question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. I want to remind you, Minister, that there are some things that had to be done yesterday. I didn't hesitate. I was one of those people who asked for e-prescription twenty-five years. If Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Georgiadis, anyone of mine was indifferent. It had to be done and it was right. I also scream - and forgive me this popular expression - for the computerization of hospitals, which you have said, twenty-five years. I have lived a long time in Denmark and the Netherlands, two countries - these are decades of conquest - where the words 'corruption' and 'health' with medicines, etc. they're unknown. And the bags are unknown and they go by saying. I would also like to say to you and point out now that you have an explosive problem with nursing staff. Look at it. There are seventy-two thousand doctors. Give incentives to leave Athens, because there is a problem in the islands and in the barren regions. You have an explosive problem - day after day - in the emergency incidents of hospitals that are operating now that we speak third-worldly, my Minister. I'm telling you this because it's one of the things that should have been done yesterday. It's serious health problems. Finally, I will not even need a three-minute, Mr President, to tell you that structures in public health are not right. Without monopolizing the truth and claiming infallibility, but because public hospitals are my second home, I would like to say that the administration of public hospitals must have the primary role. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a long story that works rather bureaucraticly, because I cannot know exactly what is going on in Nice or in the Evangelism or in the Red. The commander goes six o'clock in the morning and leaves six o'clock this afternoon. He is responsible, and at times not only are they blocking the proper functioning of hospital administrations, but they also absorb staff we need and cost them financially. It is a matter that we have to look at. In conclusion, I am one of those who I believe that the party regime is generally harming public administration, but it is very damaging to the area of health and indeed to public health and you will do well not to hurry to fill the positions of hospital governors. But I agree with you hereafter: all these administrations have been appointed by party criteria. That's how it was. I can't believe anyone disagrees in here. That's how it was, and it's good to stop happening. All these commanders should have given you resignation. Late it a little. I am at our disposal to find objective ways of managing hospitals by impotent and experienced citizens. They are enough of them, and they are up to us to find them, because public administration is of great importance. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u209	Minister, you have the floor, but I would ask you for something. Of course, too many issues have been raised with the tolerance of the Bureau, I acknowledge it, but see now, and to make it easier for you, Mr Kurublé, the Minister cannot answer such hot and important questions that you have put and which employ the health system within three or if you want six minutes to the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u210	I don't have any demands. The question had to be timely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u211	You put beyond the question. I would ask the Minister to limit himself to answering Mr Papachristopoulos's question. The issues you have raised have been recorded, Mr Papachristopoulos, but, Minister, I am very much inclined to ask you. They are colleagues who wait hours to get in line for the questions they have tabled. You have the floor, Mr Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I am sincerely pleased to respond to a man like the previous Member, who is a diamond in the field of public health, and I mean it. Now, as far as I am concerned, Mr Papachristopoulos, the question of the Tower is not even the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. However, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Health, Mr Baskozos, has taken an important initiative in consultation with Mr Voutsi. I personally spoke to the Vice-Regional Admiral Elias. I also spoke to the district manager, and here I would like to tell you a simple thing. I can't accept that there's a mayor, that there's a C.T.A. who can pick up this garbage, that there's a public threat, that he refuses to receive it, as if it were his property, and that the D.A. won't interfere. This is where the prosecutor needs, when there is a threat of public danger, as is the accumulation of these garbage. I therefore believe that, with all the effort that has been made by everyone, the problem has begun to be tackled. But I think we need intervention so that the KITTs in the region open up. Now, as far as the rest of the issues are concerned, I will call on you, Mr Papachristopoulos, to the Ministry because your remarks, of all people who have experience in this area, are always useful. We must be open, because no one owns the only truth. We did indeed have to deal with these issues yesterday, but even now I think we need to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u213	We thank the Minister for his brief reply and for his consent to the call from the Bureau. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have already stated that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u214	I'm not using at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u215	I do not know whether you are satisfied with the answer or whether you want anything for the question you have tabled. I ask why we have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u216	I apologise for the abuse that took place. I just don't have the chance to talk to the Minister often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u217	Good. Mr Kurublé, I don't think you need any denial on the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u218	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u219	We proceed to the first with number 1365/31-3-2015 question by MP II Athens, Nea Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, on the lack of medicinal products from the Greek market. The Minister of Health will answer Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is, Minister, that this question had been written together with my colleague Mrs Kefaliannis about a month ago, but that has been the case since then, not less but more time-consuming. I am going straight to the topic, so that I do not waste time and submit to the Minutes, in case you do not know, a letter from a very large pharmaceutical company, the "FRESENIUS KABI", to the pharmaceutical associations of the country, which says: "The fact of the uncertainty recurring to the Greek economy and the market from the beginning of the year and the non-restoration of the confidence of the business climate, etc." and in particular the non-payments from the EEA, force it to withdraw all its products from the Greek hospitals that exist and from other companies and there is a whole list of medicines that have already been withdrawn from the Greek market because of the non-payment of the EEA. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know very well - and there is no reason for dispute between us in this - that from the beginning of the year the EEA has been left by about 1,100,000,000 behind in the receipts of contributions from the insurance funds. Obviously, your government keeps them to pay the pensions missing from the insurance funds, but in this way you have proceeded to a peculiar EEA payment stop to its providers. If this situation continues, not only the 'FRESENIUS KABI' whose letter I submit, but other companies will do the same. I am already learning that medicines very well known to the Greek public, such as Augustin, for example, are very poor because the company that produces it wants to reduce its exposure to the Greek market, precisely because the company's dues are increasing to companies. This is the case, Minister, at the same time that - and I would like a specific answer to what I ask you now - you paid back yesterday to the pharmacists in January. In order not to lose a month in their payment, they will have to be paid within May another month. I would therefore like to ask you in particular when you plan to pay the pharmacists for February. Because in order to have the normal flow of payments, you should have paid the month of January in April. You gave 50% in the first days of May and the remaining 50% yesterday, but to normalise the flow of payments, you will have to pay within May and February. So another month has to be paid so that the payroll is not lost. I would therefore like to know if you are planning in May - and when - to pay the pharmacists so that there is no risk that small pharmacies will not be able to buy medicines from pharmaceutical companies, which, due to the disruption, have cut the credit from sixty to thirty days. Secondly, I would like you to tell me when you intend to take the money from the insurance funds, which the EOPY has not taken, so that the state of the EOPY payments to third parties can be normalised, so that there is no risk of supplying the Greek drug market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I am not going to take advantage of the problem of the voice of the honourable Member and of the former Minister, because the debate could indeed take other dimensions, but I am really going to avoid it. I would therefore like to say to him - and he knows - that I am one of the two politicians in public life, Mr President, who, for this kind of behaviour of companies I have filed a complaint with Mr Doyakos. The second was Mr Thanasis Giannopoulos. I would therefore like to say to him that I remain a representative of the people and not of companies. And no company, even if there is financial difficulty, has the right to withdraw medicines and put people at risk. Why, Mr Georgiadis, these companies have been snatching public money for ten years, having a party. And now you're coming here and instead of defending the public interest, you're defending the companies that will leave because they're having trouble paying for a month. Hey, how long can someone be patient when he hears such ingenious actions by fellow Members? So I called, Mr. Georgiadis, just got me from the Pharmaceutical Association. And that's not why, Mr. Georgiadis. You have concealed the truth again, Mr Georgiadis, as you usually do. Because you've learned to say half the truth. This is your ideological formation. I have therefore called in my office and Mr Apostolidis, the President of the CSCE and Mr Lurado - to get and be informed - and I made very strict comments to the pharmaceutical industry, the multinational in particular. Do you know why there's an artificial shortage? Because the pharmaceutical industry blackmails the pharmacists. It's not what you said! They are told: “Do you want this medicine? Yes, sir. You will get ten more medicines.” And that's exactly where it was against. There's no shortage of drugs. And when there's going to be an intervention, there's going to be an intervention by the prosecutor. We won't be happy for anyone, Mr. Georgiades, so there'll be a shortage of drugs. They don't have the right to operate that way. You know very well that there is a ministerial decision, which they have never respected, or your term of office. You know very well that in the report I made, I invoked you as a witness and you never did. Well, don't come here crying and fighting. Here we are representatives of the Greek people. So if you wish, we will go to such a spirit and denounce these gentlemen. Tell us, Mr. Georgiadis, this company you're talking about, how much money it has collected in recent years and what a tax statement it has made. Thank you, Mr President, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Minister, although your tone has risen a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u224	Not from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u225	No, no. I'm sorry, Mr. Georgiadis, I'll give you the floor right away. I just want to make a little comment. I do not like to comment, simply because the Minister at the beginning of his post said that he would not take advantage of your voice and that you cannot raise tons, but he did. I would ask that we do not have high tons. There is one issue that may be in your confrontation, but it can also be solved with mild tones. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u226	What does the Minister's specific answer have to do with the question? I asked him when the EEAS intends to have money to restore payments to its providers. What did he answer me about? That I'm an instrument of foreign interests. Excuse me, Minister, are you all right? What do you think? That he's buying the state drugs and not paying them, because you want to hit a cannon? If you go to the district attorney's office because a company is withdrawing medicine because it's not paid, you're gonna have to go to jail where you're not getting paid. That's the answer. And if a company has evaded, you should go to your Minister of Finance and put the services of the ILO and the other tax mechanisms and fines. That's how the states work. They don't work with the Minister of Health to show the House and say how much it fights the multinationals. If you have a company to blame, then, whatever you want, you have the Treasury check whether or not they have paid taxes. But what does that have to do with the fact that you're not paying them because you've led the EPPY to the rocks? And then you play it for me and protector of pharmacists? I asked you - and I insist you tell me - whether the pharmacists will get the money you owe them in February 2015. Instead of shouting about whose instrument of interest it is I, tell us: They will be paid by 31 May, they will be paid by 30 June, they will never be paid again. But if you want to take this on personal grounds, I have a lot else to tell you. From the first day you took over your ministry, after we take it like this, you have declared on the channels that you will take me and Mr. Lykourenzo and Mr. Voridis to the special court for the contract that we have entered into with the World Health Organisation. I challenge you: why haven't you taken us yet, Mr. Kurubli? You said yesterday on television at the 'MEGA', 'There is also a prosecutor'. You must take us to the prosecutor tomorrow, Mr. Kurubli, or not play with the honor and reputation of the people, because otherwise you are a slander! That's how you made a political career! If you have any evidence, you can take them to the D.A., if you don't have to apologize! And of course, if you go to the Public Prosecutor for the Convention, we will also take Mr Bascozo your Secretary-General, who has gone and paid his respects to the World Health Organisation in Geneva and said how nice a contract it is. Speaking of which, I'm not going to be tempted...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u227	What you're saying, put it in the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u228	Minister, hold on to be posted later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u229	You're a slander!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u230	Minister, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u231	If you want to take us to the prosecutor and me and Mr. Voridis and Mr. Lykourenzo to take us, but if you don't take us, stop slandering!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u232	Put it in the House, I'll answer you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u233	Understand? Because dignity has its limits too, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u234	I'll answer you if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u235	Thirdly, we know each other in the country, Mr Kurubli! To come and play the "warrior" of the pharmaceutical industries, the ceiling will fall to you and it is a pity. I don't go on with it anymore. But I have to say - because I intended to take the debate calmly, but after what has happened, Mr President, you understand that this was not the case - that I wanted to congratulate you, because the day before yesterday when you saw the Committee on Health from the Federal Republic of Germany, you raised the German health system and even said that you wanted technical advice from the German State. You, the German-German who accused us of taking, says, technical advice from Germany. Previously on the question by Mr Zacharia, I would like to inform you, if you do not know, that 'ESAN S.A.' I do not understand whether or not you will abolish it, but I am interested in learning - it is a product of technical assistance from the Germans. So, at the same time, are you asking the Germans for technical health aid and at the same time canceling the reforms that came as technical assistance from the Germans? If you explain to me how you manage this, I'm really going to congratulate you. Finally, because I want something positive out of here - I do not just like the collision and those staff you are doing it hard to stop it at last - I want to say admirably that I want to say the criticism you have made on the Circular on Brands in generics, which you also know from the daily press and others. I'll say it's right that the circular you took off. It was my request to the troika that doctors should be allowed to point to generics, which are many different generics, what medicine their patient wants to take to restore the climate of confidence in generics and to give the opportunity to increase the invasion of generics. But I'm not going to sit here and play against you and adopt the papers that accuse you of, but I'm going to support you when I see that you've done something right. So please tell me specifically when you will pay the pharmacists - not yelling and throwing mud - for February. Secondly, when the EEA will receive the money owed to it by the insurance funds, until now EUR 1.1 billion from 1 January, so that it can continue its payments to third parties so that the proper functioning of the health system does not jeopardise. It's your responsibility to get that money. It is your responsibility to pay the providers and if some providers leave the market because they are unpaid, you should go to the prosecutor and to prison. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Georgiadis. Minister, I would ask you to limit ourselves to the answers to the questions Mr Georgiadis has put in his question, and let us not escape the debate on the personalities raised by both sides. This is an appeal from the Bureau, another colleague is waiting, and it is time. I do not think it will contribute to this even the answer to this question. You have the floor, Mr Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u237	"While the wing swing, evil of his head," the people say. But I will not raise the tone, Mr President. I will not raise the tons because Mr. Georgiadis really is wrong. He doesn't get it. He knows very well how the insurance funds were working for pensions both in his own period and in another period and, therefore, he is asking me a question, which I consider to be funny, let me be allowed to speak. There is indeed a priority for pensions in the logic of the funds. Not now, all the years there was this and all the governments. Why are you asking me? So if you want me to tell you about EEA, Mr Georgiadis, the budget that you have voted on is in the paper, it is voted on. How much did it have to be based on the Memorandum? I told the Germans. I have the courage, Mr Georgiadis, because I feel that the Greek people have voted for me to speak to the Germans as equal. So I told them that on the basis of the memorandum EPPY had to get 1,100 this year and he got, as you know, 526. On the basis of the memorandum, Mr Georgiadis, it should have been 6% of GDP, and you voted for 4 and something. Based on the Memorandum, the EEA had to take 0.6% and took nearly 3%. On the basis of the 2014 budget, which you implemented a part of, the expenditure on hospitals was 1,50 and this year you wrote 815.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u238	I didn't talk to you about hospitals. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u239	Next time I get the budget to testify. Now, as far as the issue of payments is concerned, Mr Georgiadis, I am concerned. You've slaughtered the pharmacists, and now you're saying you're fighting for them? That's interesting. So you're starting to understand the mistake you've made. It's okay with the pharmacists, because now you'd have given me a hundred papers, you're on them eagle. Do you have any Pharmaceuticals document? Needs have been met with difficulty, I recognize it, I have not learned to vomit things, but they have been covered. If I may say some good news. For the first time in years, EOPYY, Mr Georgiadis, with the effort we make with the Negotiation Committees, which will give us enough money, will give the hospitals money. I am currently revaluing the diagnostics, Mr Georgiadis, and they will leave me 300 million. From these efforts, then, EEAY will give money to hospitals for the first time. So, you still don't have good information. From there on, I do not think we need to raise matters on which we could have a consensus, because the health system needs the support of all of us. Let us not choose this space as a field of controversy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second question by No. 1583/6-4-2015 question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the need for direct funding of the school units of the Municipality of Thessaloniki is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. We enter the fourth and final with number 336/27-2-2015 question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hatzisavvas to the Minister of Health, on the impact on the economy of Northern Greece from the free movement of products with Skopje. The Minister of Health will answer Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. This question was tabled about three months ago, it was not answered, which is why we had to bring it back again. We have therefore had to bring it as timely, although many questions, which I and our parliamentary group have tabled to your Ministry, have been answered by you. When Mr. Blondie happens to be, he won't answer them. I would like to ask you at least to inform us when you are to send them, so that we do not enter this process. A major problem is the movement of products from the Greek-Skopje border. But apart from the products, which are goods, there are also medical services, more specific dental services than simplest from a seal to the most complex of implants or surgery. The services provided are of doubtful quality. As it turns out, it's dangerous in many cases. One case is that of a fourteen-year-old girl who took a tooth export to Gygeli, Skopje and ended up trying to save her from bleeding after two to three days. We once called on the Greeks on the basis of their patriotic ambition not to go to give their money outside the Greek economy and we did it in part. But now, with the economic crisis in recent years, the problem has gone to another level. The problem at the moment is whether they can buy these services in Greece, whether they can in Skopje or not. For example, people come from Kilkis, surrounding areas and tells me: "I want to put orthodontic irons on my child and it's in 1/3 of the price in Skopje. It's not the point of paying more to Greece to put them on, it's if I don't get them at all, because I don't have any money to put them in." I would like to ask you what you intend to do with information actions for citizens about the health risk of visits to such clinics and medical centres, and if there are to be moves, in consultation with the dentist associations, to make it unnecessary to need services in Skopje, and in Bulgaria which is the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva, and for being very precise in time. Mr. Curublis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I understand the concern of my colleague. But I want to say that the Ministry is not directly involved in choosing someone to go to the neighbouring country. However, I recognise the need to upgrade our own services. So the question is why the citizen is going, why is it difficult for him to finance and why he might not be given these possibilities in our own system. Dear colleague, the government, recognizing the need for the organisation of the social defence of Greek society in sensitive areas such as the Aegean Sea, Thrace, Neurokopi, Paranesti, western Macedonia, Igoumenitsa, a significant number of medical and nursing staff will serve these border units that really need to inspire the sense of security, that there is a balance of power in this place. I must say, Mr President, that by visiting the twine, I felt very difficult not to say that I was ashamed of the abandonment of health centres in the region. We will deal with this very decisively, so that we can really support these regions and feel the citizen throughout the length and width of the country that it exists in this place and that it works in isopoliticalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. Mr Christos Hadjisavvas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u245	Minister, we are of course talking about upgrading the services in Greece to make this medical tourism unnecessary in the neighbouring countries unnecessary. But shouldn't this be done in consultation with the dental clubs? Of course you should put some pressure on the Treasury even you. So, in a possible agreement to raise VAT, I don't think we're going to see anything about medicine or the services provided? Because they tell me dentists in the area, who are better trained and provide better services, that they are forced to take preparations where the price of one piece here is the price of one box in Bulgaria, for example, which is often from a Greek company that has relocated there. The question is, if there is any prospect of information from you. I don't know how. With a spot on TV, radio? People understand that it is not the services provided themselves and that it is dangerous to public health. That's like a good move. Here you proved that you could heal Mr. Georgiadis who, when he came, couldn't speak, and at the end he was singing high notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, on the subject of information, I listened carefully to my colleague. I'm going to talk to the medical clubs, I'm going to inform the U.S.J. in the area, I'm going to exhaust the information effort, because people really shouldn't think that because it's cheap it's a good thing. It must be felt that this choice is not the best solution to the world's conscience. Honestly, I'm going to brief both of the district's Deputys, and I'm going to ask them to inform the medical clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we finish the meeting, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized, twenty-five students and schoolchildren and three educational sessions from the 3rd Faeros Evros Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate as well as the reports - Questions have been concluded. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-14-S1-commons.u249	With the consent of the House at 14.07 the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, May 15, 2015, at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
