ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle of Article and of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'To negotiate and conclude a loan contract with the European Stability Mechanism (ESM).' The above bill was described by the government as urgent, in accordance with Article 76(4) of the Constitution. Co-presidents of the Committees on Economic Affairs, Social Affairs, Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Parliament's Trade have accepted the designation of the above-mentioned draft as urgent, as set out in Rule 109(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and have been drafted and dealt with in a single session. They submitted their report on 10-7-2015, as set out in paragraph 3 of the above Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Immediately after the bill was put on the agenda as a priority under Rule 52(1) and 109 of our Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 109(4), (5) and (6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the debate and vote of the urgent drafts is closed at a meeting of a maximum of ten hours. The Conference of Presidents decided by a majority to propose in plenary to conclude the debate at 3: 00 a.m. In principle and in writing, other than the rapporteurs, special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to 1⁄2 of the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in response to this, to discuss the draft law in principle and the article. I propose that speaking times be formulated as follows: The rapporteurs and the special speakers have eight minutes to speak. The Minister responsible for developing the bill, nine minutes. Co-responsible ministers, five minutes. The Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, twenty minutes. The Presidents of the other parliamentary groups, 15 minutes. Parliamentary representatives, eight minutes. Any speakers, four minutes. Otherwise, apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. The honourable Minister has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with two legislative interventions that have been given to me by the Officerial Response Party. The first relates to the one article. In the first sentence, the word 'base' instead of 'framework' must be found. We're accepting it. Of course, you will know the interpretative philosophy that begins from the Bible’s analysis in the 19th century, during which the German interpretations came from which various words of the Bible came. I imagine that in thirty, forty years there will be people who will look back in the Minutes to see why he insisted on a party for this change, but the change is welcome. Your second proposal is that, as there is in the report, there should also be approval, ratification of the convention, in one article too, from Parliament. We accept this, and the only difference is that we do not think it should be a prerequisite for the agreement to be applied. The third point that has been raised is whether the letter I sent to the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, is part of this debate and why we are calling for consensus, because we are asking the other parties to be able to go to negotiate more powerful papers, to be able to negotiate on good terms. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I want to read to you the first paragraph of the explanatory statement that says... Can I have a little quiet, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u4	Of course, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u5	I read the first paragraph, which reads: 'The agreement on the regulation of the country's public debt is a crucial issue of national importance, which concerns, on the one hand, the government of the country, but also all the political forces that support our European orientation and the country's stay within the Eurozone. So why the authorisation is, I think it is too clear from the first paragraph. Also, if you go to the second page, at point three, you will see that what we ask the ESM and what I have written in this letter is part of this agreement, it is part of what we are voting on, that is, and I think it is clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are a week after the referendum in a much better position than we were before the referendum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u6	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u8	This seems to us why the agreement given to us before the referendum was the Juncker plan and they told us that 'all we can do better is the EAW issue'. So it seems that this was a very important decision of the Greek people. What we have been told is that popular intervention is the same as populism, it does not seem. It seems, on the contrary, that popular intervention can change things. It first changed the fact that the IMF report came out after the referendum. One of the Potami colleagues told us that "the IMF has always said that debt is not sustainable". And yes and no, because the IMF has so far said that it is not sustainable and has agreed to close the eye to very high surpluses -4 and 4.5 to see that it was sustainable, and now it says that a country cannot have for years and high growth rates and a great deal of surpluses, and so it is not sustainable, so you Europeans must do something about this debt. But we also had political differences, we also had political developments with this referendum. It appeared from Alexis Tsipras’ speech on the night of the referendum that there was no triumph. It appeared the next day, when there was the agreement of the parties' leaders who wanted better terms, an agreement that would be viable and all the other four elements they put in. So this changed the political reality of this country, as it is not so common four - five parties agree and set a framework to make this negotiation better. Why is it better than Juncker's proposal? First of all, I have to say that there is a very big debate about whether what we have in front of us is materialistic or whether it will be possible through this agreement to develop. On the one hand, they don't ask us for any more measures, even though the economy is getting worse. We are told to go to the same surplus we were going to make in 2018, but on a different course. However, we cannot hide that these measures have a material direction. In total, will the measures be substantial? It depends on what happens and debt. It depends on what happens both with the debt and the investment package. Because if we get out of this debt, if it seems that with a government of SYRIZA - an alternative government, together with the Independent Greeks - the Grexit rhetoric is gone, if the world understands that something has changed, the compressed demand of consumers who do not consume, those who have savings and do not take their money to the banks, investors who do not invest, if all this is changed - what Kanes 'animal spirits' - then there is a great chance that it will prevail this rather than the existing measures. It'll show if this can be done in practice. So this agreement has to be decided and judged in a large candle, taking all things together. The one I've told you is about material measures. The second is the other things that are in the program. We were being pushed by the Germans and the IMF within the Eurogroup that since you wanted and applied for a two-year or three-year programme, the package must be much larger. We reversed it. And how did we reverse it? By putting in place new measures, but not fundamental measures to reduce wages, pensions, but structural measures, which catch the main causes of the Greek disease, which catch corruption for supplies, which catch the tax evasion, which catches how the public sector works. This is the great picture on which to be judged. The third thing that has been done in this is the burden-sharing of these proposals. In my speech to the committee I gave eight - ten things that are burdening the richest, the people who can pay more. I have to tell you that we have in mind that what we are gaining from this agreement, which is better than expected, will go to the poorest and medium-sized. There will be the same class division, but in a different direction from that of the previous governments. I will give you an example to understand how difficult this negotiation was. The IMF told us: “Simplify the tax system. Have only three factors instead of six.’ We were told 'all right, we'll do that.' When we said so, do the simplest to increase collection, we were prevented from increasing inefficiency to measure tax burdens to close the budgetary gap. So that, in my view, was a very difficult controversy. But now we are saying that, once we increase the collection, we may have taxes that will be spent elsewhere. You will know that for the 2.5 billion they ask for 2016, they accept what they say "only parametric measures". In other words, they do not accept tax evasion, which is not sure, which is not based on the rates. This again took us out of one of the most powerful weapons. In fact, in one of the meetings we had with the Prime Minister with Mrs Merkel, I would say to Mrs Merkel that the institutions do not want us to have any revenue that counts in the budgetary gap from these non-measurable measures. And I'm telling her that since we had a head of tax evasion and corruption management, it's like you're Bayern Munich and we're not allowed to use either Nemar or Messie. And Mrs. Merkel answers to me or... what's his name? I forgot the third guy's name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u9	Who was it after all?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u10	Suarez. So the conclusion is that Mrs. Merkel knows better football than I know. Why am I saying that? I say it, because if you want to look at the glass half full, because it's a difficult deal... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Metropoulou, stop the noise. I can't hear myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet. The Minister's coming to an end. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u12	By reaching the end, you told us that success in the referendum was because we had not ruled these six months. Others have told us that we have gone well in the referendum, because we have always been excellent. Two are the reasons why we went well in the referendum. The first is that the Greek people have said that they trust us for the negotiation. And the second reason is for our class bias, because he knows that we are dealing with and caring for the needs of the many. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There's no triumph on our side. There's no beauty. I will tell you what I said in committee. A friend of mine, who has something to do with Asia, told me this story: When the Asians close a deal, they never rejoice, they never smile, they never are happy. Because a deal always costs money. In a deal, both sides always give something. In fact, the Asians are sad when they see Europeans and Americans smile at an agreement as if nothing had happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u13	A little quiet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u14	I think that this Asian culture is based on this issue. Because we know it's a very difficult deal. How this agreement will be managed depends on what we bring you into the whole package, namely what is in the budget, and what is in structural and reform, and what will be in debt and what will be in the investment. Then we'll all be able to judge it together. What we are asking at the moment is for us to have the best conditions for negotiating a sustainable agreement that can bring growth. Nor do we sign any agreement that does not give this breath, which does not give this sustainability, which does not give this confidence to the Greek people that something has changed. If something does not change on Monday, if there is no such optimism, if we have not all contributed to a new day, to the confidence of the Greeks and Greeks, then we will have a huge problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Thank you, Minister. The Standing Committees on Economic Affairs, Social Affairs, Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Trade have submitted their report to the draft law: "To negotiate and conclude a loan agreement with the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a critical moment and perhaps you will allow me a personal tone in my speech today. From the first moment I was in the position of Prime Minister, perhaps in the most critical days of the post-political history of the country, I have moved my conscience in order to claim, with all my powers, the right of our people, but also to defend our national interests. Nearly six months in this direction I have done what was humanely possible in difficult conditions, often in threat and extortion conditions. But I do not think that anyone can question this either political friends or enemies, that in these circumstances and at difficult times I took risks, I did not put it down, I did not account for personal political costs, I did not reconcile the idea of easy compromises in order to ensure my easy stay in power. Many will say, perhaps, that I got to where no one had imagined that a Prime Minister could arrive. And all this always trying to speak the language of truth, as I understood it and understood it with the only power in this difficult controversy, I confess, support the majority of the Greek people. Today I want to speak this language, the language of truth, as I at least understand it, and each and every and every one of us, especially the Greek people who are watching judge with soberness and calmness. There is no doubt that six months have now entered a war, we have fought hard with unequal forces, we have lost losses, but we have also gained ground. We went as far as we could imagine that we could move on. But now I have the feeling that we've reached the intertwined zone. From now on there is a minefield, and I do not have the right to ignore it, nor to hide it from the Greek people. We have fought hard for the best possible result in conditions of unprecedented economic suffocation. The question of whether we made mistakes during the five-month negotiation the only honest answer is the affirmative. Yeah, we made mistakes. No one's infallible, and I'm the first one. I believe, however, that there is no precedent in the modern European history of a country that is practical on the brink of bankruptcy and is negotiating with such perseverance and dignity. Negotiating as equals, restoring Greece's lost political parity with the other Eurozone states. Now we have to decide on this parity not to sacrifice it on the altar of extreme conservative circles. Extreme conservative circles that have sought from the first moment and are still seeking to do so today - those who have seen it in the European Parliament yesterday, a hard ideological and political conflict - their release, above all, from an inappropriate government, but also from an irritating people, who, by self-renunciation and while experiencing the consequences of the financial suffocation imposed on it, insists on supporting it. We have therefore decided with a high sense of responsibility and knowing the criticality of this decision, to prevent a Grexit politician with an economic pretext. I am not among you to hide the reality behind excesses. The loan agreement that will be put in the Eurogroup's crisis tomorrow includes many prerequisites that are far from our pre-election commitments, our programme declarations, from what we believe is the right thing to do for the recovery of the Greek economy. However, the comparison we have to make is between alternatives that we have in front of us and what we probably have in front of us - probably, because nothing is given, the negotiation is in place - and what we had fifteen days ago. On June 25 we received a ultimatum from the Eurogroup. This ultimatum provided only hard measures without any breath and prospects, without sufficient funding, without any commitment to debt restructuring, five months without sufficient funding, four assessments within five months without a debt commitment. We refused. And I think that whoever else was in our place would do the same thing. We refused and put it in the Greek people's crisis. We did not intend this option to lead to the adventure of closed banks. We asked, at the same time as the government council decided to propose a referendum, and by phone and request that the programme be extended in order to carry out this process smoothly. That's not what happened. It wasn't our choice. Despite the closed banks, despite the enormous difficulties created in the social and economic fabric, the Greek people took a difficult, brave and historic decision that surprised most and most of us. Dismiss this ultimatum. He didn't give a break order. It has given a mandate to strengthen the negotiating effort for a economically viable agreement. And I didn't hide my intentions at the moment or the truth from the Greek people. I did not ask for 'no' as an exit order but as an order to strengthen our negotiating power. I made a commitment before the referendum to do everything in my power to bring in, even in the first forty-eight hours, a better agreement. In this context the Greek people voted last Sunday and I will not come here today to be anything else than what I promised. And what I promised I did. I did not deceive the Greek people or the Council of Political Heads, which I asked to convene immediately after the referendum, when I asked and we were indeed committed to a specific framework for a sustainable agreement, a move necessary to restore a climate of bias - so are referendums - divided into a climate of political unity and national unity. I understood 'no' as a mandate for a better solution, for a better deal, as a choice of dignity for a large portion of the Greek people, for thousands of people who have experienced poverty and indefensibility all these years, but I have taken 'no' as a vote of confidence in the government and in their efforts. And now it's time to take stock. At the Heads of State on Monday, we set three conditions for a sustainable agreement: sufficient funding, a strong investment package, substantial commitments for the necessary debt restructuring and in exchange for our commitment to reforms at the least possible material cost and at a fair burden-sharing. What do we have in front of us today? What possibilities, but what difficulties are being opened before us? We do have a perspective of sufficient funding for the country's obligations over the medium term for three years. We have the promise of a strong development package of over EUR 30 billion - EUR 35 billion - with a commitment in fact to a forward-looking disbursement and action to combat unemployment. And for the first time, we have a serious debate on the necessary debt restructuring at the table and we are not just the ones we are asking for, but the President of the European Union, Donald Tusk, who, in a public statement yesterday, spoke of compensation for the reforms needed to restructure the debt. On the other hand, we must sincerely admit that the programme of reforms which we are asked for is a difficult programme, better on the points, on a number of points, than on a final basis 15 days ago, but a difficult programme. But for the first time in six months at the table we have a chance - I repeat, there is no certainty - of agreement, which can give a definitive end to the debate on Grexit and therefore the absolute positive signal on the markets, to investors that, with the guarantee of funding for such a long period of time and the write-down of debts, they can reconvene the Greek economy and thus give the possibility, the possibility, to compensate for the possible material consequences of the difficult measures. Allow me, in particular, to refer to five points concerning the draft agreement which we are now calling on the House to authorise the Minister of Finance to negotiate and sign. Firstly, this agreement will lead to a purely European programme, exclusively for European support mechanisms. This means that the International Monetary Fund will not be a counterparty. Its possible participation will only be technical support. That means that the troika ends as we have known her. Secondly, the duration of the new contract, as I said before, will be three years. It provides time and space to stabilise the economy, to get rid of Grexit's danger, Greece three years ago to fight to retrust the markets. I would like to point out that in the ultimatum we had fifteen days ago, the plan was five months old. Now, moreover, there will be a single prerequisite throughout the programme, these difficult measures that we are now debating. We won't meet again after five months to discuss a new one. The third point is the primary surpluses and how 2018 will be low and depending on the potential of the economy, so we face this automatic austerity mechanism that was the obligation for very high surpluses, without the economy having growth rates. I would remind you that in the previous programme we committed 3% of primary surpluses for 2015, 4.5% for each year after 2016. This means that for the four years 2015-2018 we had to produce primary surpluses of 30 billion in total, and now for the same period we have an obligation for about 17 billion. Therefore, firstly, the budgetary measures that we would have to take to approach them would be more than twice as many as 7.5 billion we have now and, secondly, the additional financial area resulting from the low primary surpluses amounts to about 13 billion over the same four years. But that is the financial benefit of one - I repeat, I do not want to enjoy the things - a difficult proposal that we have at the table. Fourth point. With the loan from the European Support Facility, we will repay the bonds of Greek law held by the European Central Bank of a total of 6.8 billion, which ends in July-August. This conversion of short-term debt into the long-term and, indeed, with lower interest rates, because as you know, the ESM provides for this possibility, the lower interest rates and possibly the transfer of repayments, and I will say later on about it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u17	The bonds' interest rates are zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u18	Please don't interrupt the Prime Minister. Go on, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u19	You mislead the MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u20	This short-term debt conversion in the medium term...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u21	But to say "return"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u22	Don't interrupt the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u23	...equivalent to restructuring.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u24	He's misinforming, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u25	Mr. Venizelo, please. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Go on, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u26	He's lying raw in front of the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u27	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u28	Look at your responsibility now, gentlemen of SYRIZA. We're playing the country's story.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u29	Mr. Venizelo, please! Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u30	I repeat, therefore, that the taking over of the entire debt and the country's financial needs by the European De facto Support Facility enables the short-term debt to be converted into a long-term one. In this sense, it will allow even partial participation - after September - of our country's quantitative relaxation programme of the European Central Bank. Fifth point. There will be no additional financial measures as a consequence of the effects on the economy of the bank holiday and the imposition of control over the movement of capital. And of course, I repeat, for the first time at the table, a substantial debate has been opened on the major issue of debt sustainability, and it is certain that it is possible to claim and achieve a substantial commitment by the partners to restructure the total debt to the European Support Facility in order to make it useful and sustainable, at least a substantial commitment and a time horizon for the start of this debate and the final decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that the aim of my speech today is not to delight the reality. But the aim is, speaking of the language of truth, with responsibility for this House and for the Greek people, to explain clearly the options we have before us. So I hope that at the end of a very tough battle that has already marked the post-political history of the country. We have negotiated hard for Greece and for Europe to change. Today, on the basis of the correlations, it may not seem possible and we must admit that. However, I am sure that sooner or later this seed of democracy and dignity that we have thrown will bring fruit to other peoples in Europe. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have called for the immediate end of austerity at the centre of public dialogue across Europe and around the world. We have negotiated to do what we called 'double respect', namely respect on the one hand for the rules governing the European Union and, on the other hand, respect for popular sovereignty and democracy. We have launched a pan-European solidarity movement to the tested Greek people, which has not existed since the fall of the dictatorship. Since the seven-year dictatorship we have seen concentrations of solidarity and squares of European cities filled with Greek flags. We fought for low-wage and low-pension workers, we fought for labour rights, for the prevention of collective redundancies. We have fought for what we understand as the law of the Greek people. I'm sure this fight can't be lost and it won't be lost! Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the authorisation of the Minister of Finance at such a critical moment is not just a vote in a bill. It is a vote of conscience which is of major political importance, because it is about the next day. And obviously it is a choice of conscience, but also of high national responsibility. We now have a national debt to keep our people alive to continue to fight proudly for their right to continue to fight with a stubborn fortitude and prosperity. On the basis of this national debt, we have to make difficult decisions. I am sure we will stand up to responsibility and make it. I am sure that the stubbornness, the passion of this people for life, for dignity will be our guide in the next few days, in the coming years. We'll make it! We will be able not only to stay in Europe, but to live as an equal partner with dignity and pride, claiming our right in Europe, opening roads to the rest of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has had an objection of unconstitutionalism, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, from the Golden Dawn Party and there have also been two requests for a roll-call vote from the Communist Party of Greece and from the Golden Dawn. The President-in-Office of the New Democracy has asked for the floor, and I shall give him the floor. I would ask the Members of the Golden Dawn, if you will consent - as I see you agree - to complete the circle of parties Presidents and then take the floor. Mr. President of the New Democracy, Mr. Meimarakis, please come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, it is at times when the responsibility for history is heavier than anything we experience. And that's what's happening today. The gaze of all our citizens, the citizens of our country and the citizens of Europe, and the global public opinion, I would say that today it is attending our meeting with great interest. Perhaps some people today would expect a tension in the debate, a dissatisfaction. I think we ought to disprove them, because the moments are such that we need to overcome ourselves, and even when we talk about a bill, which only has an article, which is procedural, and I would say that it does not have any legal significance. As far as the mandate you want to give to the Minister of Finance, which we are giving to you, Prime Minister, is concerned, and I am surprised that you have only mentioned the Minister of Finance twice to sign it - I will tell you that I have first understood why we have not signed for so long because there was no authorisation. It seems that today you're taking the authorisation, you'll be able to go sign. I believe that you too will dare sign, because when it was nationally necessary, we signed, without this authority, by feeling that we are authorised by the Greek people and serving the national interest! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I want to tell you that I was really, consensual and compositional, and I will not follow you to what you said today to analyse who was to blame, how we came, what happened these six months, which is sure that the country was better two months ago, better four months ago, and yet it was much better in December 2014,... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...when you led us to elections, not to complete the programme that was there and to lose these six months, and all indicators today are worse than they did then. I thought in this bill we'd have a formal conversation and maybe the Chiefs didn't have to talk either. That is why I would like to speak for a moment, but with the speech you have made, which you have not referred to in the bill, you have shown us what we were thinking, that you tabled the bill, to discuss a proposal, which - and we do not know if it is all - is in the explanatory statement. You told us, before you even brought this bill, that you fought this negotiation. This will be judged by history and by the people. You told us that no Prime Minister ever came to fight so much. You want to say that it did not reach about three days from getting us out of Europe and bankrupt the country. Indeed, no Prime Minister has arrived. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You told us that at the time we felt the deal was closing, you were humiliating and taking us for a referendum. And from what we learned, we left the negotiating table for no reason, and from what was said in public, they separated you about 50 to 60 million from the proposal that was tabled. Of course you said that the truth had to be said, but without saying that you were divided much more or less. The referendums are good, Prime Minister, and we wanted them too. It is no coincidence, however, that the Constitution provides for no referendums to be held for budgetary reasons, not to be held for such reasons. You said that it was a national issue, while it was undercover - and it is certain - that it was a budget. Of course, when we ask the citizens, there is no doubt that no one will answer 'yes, I want to tax, I want to pay more'. That is why we have discussed on several occasions the exact dilemma and I must say that I was particularly pleased at the meeting of the Heads of State or Government that it was not a mandate to break with the European Union and the euro. But I say to you that in democracy there are no dead ends, as Paul Bakoyannis said, and we can solve them by addressing the people. First of all, however, we must comply with certain conditions, announcing the referendum and having a year in front of us capable of discussing, developing opinions, making the question understandable. Secondly, the question should be clear. Thirdly, even the ballot should be as laid down by the law. And, fourthly, we can actually have these democratic processes that we all want. I would remind you that in Great Britain, where a referendum will take place for the European Union, it has been announced a year ago to discuss. That is why I will tell you that in democracy there are certainly no deadlocks. But are there deadlocks in the economy? There are. And how are they created? Unlucky policies a government can practice. And how do they solve them? By referendums or new policies? Because if these failures and the problems in the economy were solved by referendums, we would have no reason. We would make a referendum every week, and the economies would be fine. But it is certain that this is not the case, and that is why, Prime Minister, I believe that not only should you not go to the referendum as a solution, but you should have the daring, at the time when you arrived at that table, at that time you can sign and take responsibility and not lead the country to the referendum. And here, Mr President, we need to make something clear: the negotiation is your responsibility. No one is involved in the negotiations. We have even asked to help, unlike you, participants in the National Trading Group, which you refused. We have told you that we will support the agreement signed by you and the lenders and that we believe that with the principles that we have put in it, it will also benefit from greater acceptance. But we didn't say we were going to negotiate. And you came here today and analysed the proposal for the negotiation. We asked for the proposal to come out of the explanatory statement, because it raises, if you like, the chances of suspecting that you will go back to the negotiation and that you will be offered more topics than that provided in the explanatory statement, it is very likely that you will say that "I have this authorisation from the Greek Parliament and I cannot accept anything more". And I have to tell you that there are many people who think that with a regular manoeuvre you are trying to encroach on the House so that you do not have the flexibility that is needed to negotiate. I hope I'm disproved. And I want to believe that I will be disproved, because we want an agreement by Sunday to be Greece in Europe. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We do not want you to go there to say 'that's all we accept.' We want, Prime Minister, to empower you and give you the responsibility to have the flexibility to negotiate and return by agreement. This is also the main issue of today's debate. We will not make an analysis of the agreement today. And you know why I'm telling you? I saw that it was written in your text and I noted it because you said that we have "probability" rather than "dynasty". You've already stressed it by stopping.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u33	That's not about us. They're two counterparties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u34	Two counterparties. I want you not to confirm those who say that you are entangled and I hope that this scenario does not apply. It's very serious for us, Prime Minister. We understand the anguish of the Greek people, but we want - I repeat - that you do not return with any agreement, because we know from negotiation and we know how much our lenders are blackmailing. Now you've found out. And let me tell you, since you said that, I fully understand both your colleagues and your colleagues. We all here, ladies and gentlemen, have often been hurt when it was a painful decision that was not in line with our principles, with our ideological directions, but was necessary for the country to remain in the euro. And we didn't sleep many times. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why I am telling you that I understand you much more today and your colleagues, because you are doing your duty, your national duty, when we did so. Not to mention the expressions you used and the divisive moves you made. We won't copy you. We will speak unitedly and syntheticly, and we tell you well that you have the courage to move in the same direction, and we understand you and we sympathize you if you like. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because I am sure that everything you do is done and you do not want it. I'm sure and I know what you've been about. But now you, too, understand what we were going through and how you were wrong with all those last names you were telling us. But I have told you that I do not want to get carried away from everything you have said - and I will not get carried away - because it is well known that I could say a lot about it. They still resonate what you told us in Thessaloniki. Those false promises still ring. Of course, today you are confronted with reality. You land and explain why you will take painful measures, but which are for the good of the country. Indeed, that's how we moved. And that's why I'm telling you we're encouraging you. And I tell you this because our prolongation, along this historic route, has been and will continue to be a stable pillar and a guarantor of the country's European path. That is why, Mr President, we urge you and wish you as much as possible for a better agreement. And all of this will be discussed and discussed at the time of the agreement, again with a sense of consensus and consensus. Once again we will try to put our backs on and take burdens which do not correspond to us. And now we're getting weights that don't count on us, supporting you. We did not sit outside, as SYRIZA did when we made any difficult decisions, but we are with you on this path only because we share the anxiety of the citizens and we want the country to be saved. Therefore, the negotiation, the mixture of policies that you will choose, the evaluation of measures and creative controversy, I believe that there is no need to discuss today. It is therefore clear today that we are not voting on individual measures. Therefore, I do not think it was necessary for the Prime Minister to refer to them. Today we should be told 'I request permission to go and sign the agreement I told you that in forty-eight hours I will bring in and request an extension of forty other eight hours'. We give you not only these, but unfortunately the time expires on Sunday. We must be done on Sunday, Mr President. We cannot imagine what the country will be like after Sunday if we are not done. Don't tell me we're pressing and we have less negotiating power, because you're out of time. You thought you earned the time and when we came to the end, markets and Europe would come to beg us. That is what Mr Varoufakis has been telling us for so long, and you have followed this policy and thought you have earned time. Now is the end of time, the markets are standing, the euro is standing, Europe is not a kneeler to beg us, and the problem is much greater for us, and that is why you thought you were making time, you are losing. But I told you again that we are not clearing accounts today. We don't want to. It's not the time. We sympathize and understand that. But we're clear about accounts with history. We're writing the story today, because today he wanted us to discuss these things, and I thought we'd only discuss delegation and end it. We're clearing up our accounts with history, and I'm telling you that with history the New Democracy has a quiet conscience. Make sure you have your own conscience, keeping the country in Europe. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With these words, Mr President, I believe that we may be divided, a lot may have to be cleared up, but we are already being united by a few words. Greece unites us, Europe unites us, the euro unites us, the common course and the common life that we have within this place. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why the New Democracy guarantees that course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u35	The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a clarification of the chapter on fiscal structural measures, where it says that there will be economies of 100 million in 2015 and 200 million in 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u37	Defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u38	Right, in the defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u39	Quiet, please! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u40	The clarification is that what will come will be 100 million from this year's surplus budget and 200 million from the sale of equipment, defence material.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u41	So, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u42	The clarification needs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u43	Please, gentlemen! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u44	I would therefore like to clarify this. Still... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Is there any chance I can talk to you, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u45	Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen, the speaker. Go on, Minister. Don't address yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u46	I want to make this clarification. Although it says the word 'personnel' and the word'supply', nowhere says about the percentages, it does not say how much it should be, and how much it should be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u47	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u48	I think that, when the time comes for the bill to exist, the Greek Parliament can decide how these economies will be found. I think the clarification is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u49	Right, right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u50	The President of the River has asked for the floor, but in order the President of the Golden Dawn takes the lead. Mr. Michalokoo, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, twenty-five minutes and forty-five seconds was spoken by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and fifteen minutes and forty-five seconds by the President of the New Democracy Evangelos Meimarakis. In these forty minutes I have not heard a word that is the protagonist of the country's public and political life, the word'memorandum'. You don't call it government-sponsored. You have your reasons. They have the same reasons, but also from the New Democracy's point of view, not to say that we are going for a new memorandum. It is clear that this agreement you will sign will be'memoreandum'. At this point I would like to remind the House - because the writings remain - through the Minutes themselves on 7 July 2012, in the New Democracy programme statements, taking a position and paraphrasing the Lower Timiti who said 'Carthago delenda est', I said 'Memorandum delenda est' and that in order for there to be growth and progress in the nation of the Greeks, the memorandum must first be abolished. The Memorandum is not repealed with this agreement of SYRIZA. The fact is that in this climate, which exists in the Greek people, where all the terror and slavery, if you want, are very easy to pass. That is why, in fact, a few days ago, we had a debate on the referendum here, on whether a referendum should be held. We said 'yes', and we also said that our position on the Juncker proposal would be 'no'. But I am reading you on self-esteem of what I said in this Chamber and no one has been moved. I said: 'Ladies and ladies and gentlemen, we really live moments strange and do not hide behind our fingers. Yeah, there's the tails behind the ATMs. This is a fact, as it is also a fact that last week, Monday, the phones from all over the country have been broken and in Athens in particular, saying that the banks will close on Friday." That's what I was saying on Saturday, June 27th. ‘You don't know?’ I said addressing the House. "You all know that. What underground forces are moving in this place? Who governs this place?’ Here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Government this: has it ever denounced the European Central Bank for this murderous action against the Greek people to cut off liquidity? Just as a referendum took place then and the Greek people tolerated fear - the Prime Minister said, as I remember, that the only fear is to face fear - and now, now that this debate is taking place, a fear is spreading everywhere. The ATM tails are still there. In this uncertainty, there is the blackmail of the lenders to whom we are invited to respond. The spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, at the committee meeting, which took place at noon, said "We want an agreement. Your own account of the measures.’ Hey, no! We do not say so, ladies and gentlemen. It is not your own account the measures which, as I will mention below, will exterminate the Greek people. The honourable President of the New Democracy, Mr Meimarakis, said so: "The negotiation...", he said, is your responsibility. We want a deal by Sunday. We are not voting for measures.' No, he's wrong. We are voting for measures. Why did you share this with us? For the eyes of the world? Does it not make any difference to this paper and those proposed measures? A parentheses. A lot of people said we're living historical times. Some may imagine themselves as a protagonist of history, as Theodoros Kolokotronis, George Karaiskakis, Charilaos Trikoupis, since it is timely and we speak of bankruptcys. However, I would like to ask something and I think I will receive the answer with a simple rhetorical question: who knows at least nothing about the three bankruptcys in Greece, except for specialists, in 1827, in 1893 and in 1932? Nobody knows anything. It's not a story of manipulation. Other things are history, other things are that bring nations up to greatness and conquer peoples in the consciousness of mankind. However, I now come to this text of the agreement, from which I shall briefly refer to a few points not so much as the size of the measures or the fact that they are undoubtedly a memorandum. And it is a memorial even if, for reasons of abrasion, a memorial is not called, because the two previous memorials are not reported. Since there are, therefore, the two previous memos signed by the coup d'état of the New Democracy and PASOK, as well as the government of Papademos, the regime of the memos remains. This remains the assignment of our national sovereignty and loan contracts, which are governed by English law. This is a debt colony, where everyone can confiscate anything in this country. I now come to this text which has been distributed and which is signed 'To negotiate and conclude the loan contract with the European Stability Mechanism'. With regard to VAT, 23% on catering and restaurants. Is that going to cost? Would he have fired? Is there going to be a closure of operations? Did you think of that thing? I continue: 'Reduced rate of 13% for basic goods'. But since basic goods now have 6% VAT. How will he be reduced when it becomes 13%? And I come to that point which shows the generality and vagueness of this text and says 'will abolish the reduced rates on the islands, starting from the islands with higher per capita income and which are the most popular tourist destinations'. He says that's where he'll start. But it doesn't tell us where it's going to end up. It is not specific where VAT will rise on the islands. I continue at another point in this text again, where we have the unprecedented element to mention the elimination of the possibility of tax evasion by limiting, for example, the definition of a farmer. In 1981 - and this is a responsibility of the New Democracy, which it put in these circumstances, but also of the PASOK, which was then maintained by Greece in the European Union - our homeland was a country that was basically agri-foodstuffs. And we agreed - yes, we agreed! - and we have even signed a special agreement on early retirement for farmers in order to reduce to a dramatic extent Greece's agricultural and livestock production to a minimum. So today we are a state dependent, which will literally starve if imports stop. And this wrong policy, instead of making a brave promotion of primary production in the direction of national development, the promotion of agriculture and livestock, this convention also promotes it by taking firm measures to increase farmers' income tax and also by abolishing their tax exemptions on oil for farmers. I continue with the agreement, and I refer to what Minister Chakalotos said earlier, giving a salmonite solution which would perhaps satisfy the government partner, whether the 100,000, 000 or 200,000, will be from supplies or staff, that is to say, by seeing and doing. What is the reality is that here it is very clear that we are talking about reducing staff and procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is neither Belgium nor Liechtenstein nor Luxembourg! It is a country that is under threat, under threat, officially expressed by the Turkish Parliament with the casus belli if it extends twelve miles to the Aegean Sea. And the Europeans, who want to reduce our Armed Forces even to the staff, where was it true on the night of the Imian? Where have all these years been, during the decades where Hellenism is threatened by Turkey? Responses. And they will be absent because they do not have the power. Because Europe, whether we like it or not we like it, may be an economic and political hug, but in fact it is a dwarf because it does not have an army. And what ultimately prevails even up to our day is the policy of the normalists. And so we see the United States of America dominating the world at the same time as they are in economic decline, because with their planes, with their bombings, with their turbulent wars, they also impose their economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, you have increased the tax rates, the 100% tax advance in private enterprises. Again, the vocabulary, vagueness and generality worked. You say, for example, here that, as far as free professionals are concerned, the advance payment of taxes will also be increased to 100% by 2017. You say the final chronology, you do not say the starting date if this is the financial year 2015 or 2016. All this, it seems, will be cooked. I could say many more about this text, which is a text full of hard and unpopular proposals, tough measures, which will certainly not lead to the development of our economy. The Prime Minister said earlier that in order to reverse the current climate, debt must be restructured. But, just two days ago, we have a statement from the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotou, who spoke about the long term - in time, in future - a definition of debt restructuring. And we also have the statement of Junker in the European Parliament, who said that we will discuss it in October. But we also have another more tragic and more cynical statement, the statement of Shoeble himself, who said: "Yes, the Greek debt is not sustainable, but the Eurozone does not allow us to cut it down, to restructure it." So, what does he say to us in a few words? That if not this year, next year, in two years, in three years, you will go bankrupt. That's what Mr. Shoeble says. So there is nothing to do with the debt issue. I would also like to say that those who believe that Greece is the victim of extortion, could also be a marvelous extortionist. There's a stake here. Do you believe and is it possible in the global economy, with stock exchanges, a country's naughty bankruptcy within the euro area, to have no effect? Only with the Greek crisis of recent months and the euro has lost several minutes of value to the dollar, which, based on total reserves, is certainly huge. I would also like to accuse the government of not - as the people who were saying some time ago of agreeing with her - that she has a plan B. I want to accuse her of having no plan B. And he should have plan B. And the notion is. But there are also some things that run out of every line of reason. We were told by the New Democracy and the other parties, which supported the 'yes' in the referendum, that if the 'no' - which we supported - were to come out of the euro next day. And now we see them - hand to hand with the government, which supported 'no', going to support the euro and deliver land and water, saying 'Agreement we want and whatever it is'! Hey, no! We do not agree on this point. And I would like to say that the government has managed, along with its parties, to unite the Greek people, to unite the Greek people in despair, in the tails of the ATMs and so every vote that is being taken, even today, in this climate, is a vote, which contains the element of fraud. Yet, the Golden Dawn, not counting on the political cost and fully sympathizing with the tails of our compatriots at the ATMs, who are the victims of irresponsibility, but also the economic killers of the European Central Bank, will say to you: 'No! I'm not giving you the authority for this agreement! We are not authorizing you to grant national sovereignty! We do not accept English Law! We want Greece and let us eat stones, as they said in the time of the EEC!'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Of the present leaders, Mr. Theodorakis, do you want the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u53	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u54	Here you go, Mr. President. The head of the River Mr. Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u55	The agony of the world must end. Together with the split. So let's not be late. Greece is about to live and live. The river does not authorize. Potami requires the Prime Minister to do everything possible to keep the country in its natural space, at the heart of Europe. The rest from Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u57	By addressing the government, I would like to say that we must finally stop playing the mouse cat game. Stop mocking the Greek people! Stop behaving with authoritarianity, which is part of the arrogance with which you have been working for a long time! You are not only the government that has not been proved to be a good student in the footsteps of the old party establishment, as you constantly complain about it, but show clearly that you are becoming better students than your instructors. In just five and a half months, you have made mini-couples, as you said, of course, and so it was, Fast track sessions of the House, procedures of express, parallel acts of legislative content. Even an army has threatened us, through your Minister, that you will go down for your internal security! It's known that the caterpillar doesn't have a bottom. But there are certain limits of political morality. Of course, we've known you many, most of you, many years. You have always been fans of political amoralism, opportunism, which Greeks and without his deeper theoretical analysis means simply opportunism, landlocking. Just ten days ago, again in this Chamber, in the debate of the motion for a referendum, the Communist Party of Greece had clearly pointed out that you are calling on the people to take part in a referendum, with a "yes" or "no", which both seemingly different, since the "yes" and the "no" are equivalent to the acceptance of a new memorandum, perhaps worse than what we had known. We told you that ten days ago. Something that was confirmed the other day after the referendum, when the other political parties - and those of the 'yes' and 'no' - agreed on a new memorandum that would be harder than the Yunker proposal. They are consistent with their "yes" and adapting the "no" of the Greek people to the "yes" of others. We were sure from the start that this would happen. Not because we are masters, but because the strategy you have, the programme you have, your position vis-à-vis the European Union, the Eurozone and, in general, the capitalist associations - as we say it - and the position you have on a development path and the system you want to serve, with mathematical accuracy, leads you to fight at the side of the European Union, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the large capital, the monopolistic groups on how to share, how you will serve their profitability, in other words how you will ultimately reduce the people's income, and the financial burden on the labour force, how you will unravel the people, so that the 'crowds' of the system will have a good time. And that logic, the strategy you have, like the previous ones, regardless of whether you came out with other slogans and have greater difficulties in implementing them. That is why you afflict the people, go and come, announce one after the other initiative, supposedly masked with popular participation and popular sovereignty. So you're turning all this into an alibi, and that's why you're doing it to new memorials with new barbaric measures. Because what you are doing today, calling on Parliament with the neck nipple to vote because of the criticality of the circumstances, putting your proposal to the Troika into discussion, could be a good question in the referendum proposed by the Communist Party of Greece and refused it at that time. That is why we said that both the creditors' proposals and your proposals should be put forward as a question. You refused, because you wanted to take up the people's vote, without any concern if the one "no" said by one was day by night with what the other said. But that's not what you're interested in. You set a goal to deceive, to guard a 'no' to exploit it in your turbulence. That is why it is important for our people today to draw conclusions. We have no hope that other political parties, other groups, either within the SYRIZA or outside it, which recently also operate as its satellites - are even coming to the streets under cover of false revolutionary phrases - or others on the Internet will actually draw political conclusions. They are already trying to justify their unjustified identity, the "no" with SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the Golden Dawn, and "let's not invoke the people" we say from the result. Another way the people vote under a multitude of blackmails, blackmails and pressures, and other what a political attitude or what messages the political parties and political leaders send out to the people. Because 'yes' voters and 'no' voters were in fact blackmailed. Their will was raped and finally translated into a huge 'yes'. In this fat blackmail, both the parties of the "no" and the parties of "yes" the JRC opposed from the first time. We did not have a moment to measure parties and votes, as others do or did on the day of the vote, on the day of the election, because we were particularly interested in the next day. Always the responsible parties and authorities parties what will dawn for the people think and not how they will have a good time at night. And the next day is again with the dilemma "with a Memorandum 3 will we go or with Grexit?", which both are solutions one worse than the other. And with Memorandum 3, we will have a real bankruptcy of the people - of course, somewhat more coordinate - we will have barbaric measures and with Grexit we will have rapid impoverishment, bankruptness of the people, no way out, again within the walls of the European Union, the capitalist road and again the same. And here are the historical responsibilities of all the other parties, especially the SYRIZA, which the people have entrusted with. In order to make a real way out of the crisis, to develop for the benefit of the working people's interests, there is a need to organize the people's full preparation, clean words, clean programs, reports, to be determined himself and to be in power and thus to organise the economy, the new society out and away from imperialist associations, with central planning, with social property in the wealth generated by our working class and people. All the others are failed experiments of social-democratic management, governments supposedly left-wing management of the system, within the walls, which only do, after the temporary hopes and false expectations they sow, lead to new major frustrations in the people, backwardness of the movement, preservation of the people's forces up to their extreme reactivation. The so-called "transitional programmes" are not only utopia for the second presence, but it is also something worse. And these are invoking your officials, your ministers. It is butter at the bread of the various Siomples, butter at the bread of opposition and antagonisms between imperialists, capitalist states and their associations, only to make people fight under foreign flags. The government is lying about bringing to parliament a proposal for approval. It is a text that will be worse than tomorrow, since from now on the government will write everything in dictating the ever stronger - now - troika. He's lying about getting a start on a process to facilitate debt repayment. In fact, the old and new debt created with the new loans will literally pay for it with the sweat and blood of the working Greek people. The new agreement is accompanied by a package of tough anti-grassroots measures, a new memorandum which is coming to multiply the burdens of previous memoranda and the enforcement laws passed by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. It already has the seal of the New Democracy, the River and the PASOK, because with the joint communiqué signed, it has authorized the Government to shape the unbearable anti-grassroots measures accompanying the agreement. The government has great responsibilities because it has left the people exposed and unprepared to extortion, the false dilemmas in the European Union's competition. It is absolutely not today and it cannot be the time for a detailed analysis of how we have come to this tragedy. But certain things must not be forgotten, such as that SYRIZA consciously took advantage of the popular desire to abolish the consequences of the two memoranda, which was at least equivalent to recovering losses to the people's layers. The visions and dreams of left-wing, other radicals of progressive people who wanted a left-wing government were traded. He also used popular demagogy and public commitment to the big capital to support the recovery of his profitability and to limit the reconstruction and recovery of the working people's movement. He thus extracted the tolerance up to supporting the core of the bourgeoisie and extra-Greek imperialist centres, such as the United States of America. Now we are again in front of a new memorandum in Memorandum number 3. The government, in addition to charging the people the new loan of 53 billion, loads and fire measures accompanying it, such as the reduction in wages and pensions due to the increase in health care contributions, the storm, the maintenance of the ENPI, the large increase in VAT on popular consumption, the contribution of solidarity, the application of the new insurance, the gradual abolition of the CSCE, privatisations, the OSCE toolbox and a number of others. In order for the people to accept these measures, it was once again put on the same extortional dilemma that we have been living repeatedly in the last five years: a new tougher memorandum or state bankruptcy through Grexit. Let us all think about how many times in recent years we have heard the same blackmail dilemma. We heard the same in Memorandum 1 and Memorandum 2 and every time a dose was disbursed. We heard the same from Papandreou, Papademos, Samaras, Venizelos. Every time the people must choose the smallest evil that eventually leads to the greatest evil. Now SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence joins the same rhetorical and specific practice. The fact that, for the first time, a country has been so strongly and directly withdrawn from the euro is mainly due to the fact that Greece's dismissal was within the possible choices of strong Eurozone countries and parts of the capital within it, especially the German bourgeoisie, which use Greece as an experiment for the reform of the Eurozone. You are presenting us on several occasions as the only rival to the Symble, which represents a significant part of German capital and as friends of Greece when the United States, the International Monetary Fund, France now, focusing on debt restructuring. It is not just the American capital, it is the French and German capital. Everyone is asking for the slaughter of the income of the rights of our people. Their competitions are taking place in the territory of the crisis and the deep unisometry that passes through the hard core of the euro area. They are negotiating with the United States of America and Germany on dominance in Europe, International Monetary Fund, France and Germany for the next day in the Eurozone. Parts of domestic capital, industrial, banking, logistics groups are involved in this dialogue. So as long as we are involved in this dangerous bucket of major conflicts, all the alternatives will be nightmareous, whether we are talking about an anti-grass agreement - a memorandum or a memorandum of government bankruptcy - Grexit, even a possible war in the wider region. Despite the temporary compromise, there remains a strong tendency to dismantle countries, not only for Greece, but also for all the highly indebted countries and those in the euro area. In order to give a definitive solution to the people, a real break is needed which has nothing to do with the break - caricature that invoke certain powers - and within SYRIZA - when they defend Greece's exit from the euro. And I would like, on today's occasion, to explain a little more our position, the subject of a multi-faceted distortion, not only because of ignorance, but mainly because of the feasibility: from the transition to a double currency or a purely national currency then, a great loser will again be the people, as it is, of course, in the case of the signature of a hard memorandum. People's incomes will be evaporated by depreciating currency, stubbornness and a rapid fall in purchasing power, especially for imported products which are also a large majority. A large proportion of self-employed, professional, poor farmers, borrowers will also be hit. The big chapter is what will take it off again 'clean'. In particular, some parts of the chapter will also benefit from it, which is why they supported - directly or indirectly - the exit of Greece from the Eurozone. The concentration of capital will proceed through the destruction of part of it. Those who claim - they are forces of SYRIZA, as well as other nationalist reaction forces from another point of view - that Greece's exit from the Eurozone with a devalued currency will boost competitiveness and growth with positive consequences for the people, they are consciously mocking, saying, we are saying and not just now, but our language has been hairy over recent years. Capitalist Greece, with a national currency, does not constitute a rupture for the benefit of the people and any political forces that put forward such a goal as a solution or intermediate goal for radical changes - such as the left platform of SYRIZA, such as AntarsYA and others, extreme right - fascist forces in Europe - are objectively playing the game of parts of capital. This choice does not lead to a return to the relatively best living standards of the 1980s and 1990s, as some people have said. So we do not choose whether to go bankrupt with euro or by drachma, with internal or external devaluation. That is why we are not choosing a Memorandum or a Grexit, because there is an alternative if we move towards a break with the European Union, their capital and their power. We can dismantle, for example, the Community commitments that declining domestic production from sugar and meat to the shipyards and so many others that I do not have time to develop. We can use conflicts between imperialist centres and there can be mutually advantageous international agreements from Greece of popular power, free from the European Union and NATO. Yes, we can pave the way to satisfying people's needs if we move on to socialisation of monopolies, production instruments, with scientific, central planning, national economics. The opening of this road is not unrealistic, however. The people must now organise their counter-response. That is why the JRC calls on the working people, the public families, to say today, since they were unable to say it the day before yesterday, the great, real, 'no' to the government agreement, the European Central Bank, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and to fight on the road and at the workplace the measures - fire contained in the agreement and coming. That's why we call on him not to be lost day, not to be wasted hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am twenty-two years in this Chamber, and this is perhaps the most difficult meeting I have ever met. It is a meeting that we have a duty to vote on, as the Constitution stipulates, in our consciences, and on the other hand we have a duty for our conscience to calculate all the components of the risks that our country can run, depending on the decision we take. I am sure that all the Members of Parliament of the Independent Greeks and the majority of members of SYRIZA, if we were to decide only on our conscience, would be heard of this great 'no' that the Greek people voted on in the referendum yesterday, a 'no' to a policy of blackmailing our country, a 'no' to a policy of dismantling the social fabric of our country, a 'no' to opposing policies for which we received a people's mandate. I would therefore like in these fifteen minutes to express my views and to decide together what to do. The Greek people have decided to be together in the government to take over the helms of the country, they have decided to redeem the governments that have brought bills here in English.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u60	Isn't that in English?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u61	And that's in English.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u62	Please, gentlemen. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u63	That's right. I am ashamed that the text that has come here is English and that is why I say it publicly. But I do not sign it, as you did, without even reading it, without even listening to it, without even believing it. "You're not ashamed to say it when you voted without even asking your conscience. So let some ask their conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u65	New York TimES last week were entitled: 'The euro stopped bringing Europe closer and closer'. He wrote: "The common currency became a bat used by creditors against Greece and Greece against lenders. The common currency of Europe... - continues the 'NEW YORK TIMES' - '... crossed a line that could mark it forever'. He continues: "They have suffered a great blow to some of the important ideals behind the euro". The Greeks and Greeks have heard Mr Weber's speech in the European Parliament emit this hatred on behalf of the European People's Party. Unfortunately, only two men were found who came out of New Democracy and convicted Mr. Vebber, Mr. Kumoucasos and Mr. Stylianides, and I think Mrs. Bakoyannis also made a criticism. No one else has spoken of the insult that Greece has received from the speech by Mr. Webber, who has voiced a hatred against our country, not against the Prime Minister who was there. It is the same hatred that emits public Prime Ministers from countries that Greece has put into the European Union, such as Latvia, Lithuania and other Baltic countries. We agreed to enter the European Union. He hears politicians from countries that helped Greece at difficult times, attack the country that gave birth to culture. He hears East Germans, for whom Greece has undertaken the cost within the European Union to join Western Germany, including Mrs Merkel. We are therefore called upon to vote not on the agreement which we signed on the board of political leaders, under the President of the Republic, but on an agreement that has as a basic text what we have agreed on, with changes which require intermediaries - lenders to be accepted. Clearly, therefore, if the question was to vote for the agreement reached by the political leaders, there would be no doubt and no objection. But here, we see provisions that are contrary to both the Constitution and our laws and our beliefs. First of all, this agreement - which is not a memorandum, it is a final agreement out of the crisis - opposes the n. It expressly says that the results of the referendum are binding when it takes part in the vote of more than 40% of the Greek people. This text contains provisions which are contrary to the Constitution, such as the provision on the islands. It is not to choose whether the island that will be cut will be Mykonos and Santorini or the islands of the border. The islands are protected by the Constitution of Greece and the Treaty of Amsterdam. We are therefore called upon to vote on unconstitutional provisions, provisions that run counter to European law itself. We are called upon to vote on provisions which have otherwise been agreed and which are now coming. I would like to say clearly: I have listened carefully to the clarification of the Minister for Finance. The clarification stops where it is clear that the money to be cut from the Ministry of Defence's budget is 100 million from this year's budget and 200 million from the sale of defence material, which has already been agreed. The staff will not cut one euro. And I personally guarantee it. The Undersecretary of Defense, with whom I spoke earlier...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u66	How? You have to tell us that, otherwise we don't vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u67	With commitment. No one gets a white check, nor can anyone negotiate more than what we agree. I want us to clarify our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u68	Excuse me, there's no deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u69	It's clear, Mr. Maymaraki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u70	We will not vote for it, I tell you clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u71	I'm telling you, too. The clarification of the Minister of Finance should stop where he says: 100 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u72	We're not voting for a deal here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u73	It's the deal we made on the board of political leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u74	Oh, no. Today we are voting on delegation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u75	It is 100 million from the 2015 budget and 200 million from material sales. Not one euro from staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u76	Mr President, may I interrupt for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u77	Let me finish, Mr President. Let me finish. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is a slogan. And at the Ministry of Defence they say that the conspiracy, of course, is much softer than tradition. This conspiracy was very well described in a tweet by a journalist, Hungo Dixon, saying that "Greece has two options: conspiracy or abyssos". I will explain what abyss means and that goes on the other side of the balance of our conscience, which we have to decide today. I want to state clearly that I'm not afraid of Grexit. I'm not afraid of any threat they make. I'm only afraid of one thing and I'm making it public. I fear the national division and the civil war, the Greeks split up next morning and if blood is spilled. That's the responsibility on my back. I can't take over. I don't have that popular command! I do not have the right to drive my country, just like no one has the right to lead my country to the civil spasm. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Because if they continue to carry out the threats that they have erected, that the banks will be closed down the next day completely, the money will be seized by the Greeks, the Collaterals will go and the English Law will be used to create the houses of the Greeks, I believe, unfortunately, that the Greek people are not ready to bear this. I wish that there is a chance, even in a hundred percent, that the Greek people could withstand this solution and I can assure you that I would vote for it. I believe, however, that the Greek people are not ready to accept it. And we have at the moment on the other hand to put this very responsibility on the ground. But this responsibility should not make us forget that this people are not smiling at this smiling. The Asians may never smile. Here, however, the entire Greek people is crying. Here we impoverish farmers, impoverish professionals, impoverish property owners. The measures we take are hitting shipping! The measures we take dismantle industrial relations. These measures are very hard and are measures which only one possibility exists...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u78	Please, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u79	Some have become completely unconscious of such measures. But some are not unconscious of these measures, above all the Greek people. These measures, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, are the only way to deal with them, provided that this solution first brings what is guaranteed by the decision of the Heads of State or Government, debt write-off or write-off through the extension of the debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u80	Keep going. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u81	I mean, if the debt goes in a hundred years, it's already considered deletion. Part of it shall be deleted. Secondly, it is the issue of the development package. If farmers accept such a heavy tax, a very large part of this development package should go to tackle unemployment, to help primary production, to help small and medium-sized professionals affected by these measures. And it is clear that, in order for any agreement to be reached, at least for the Independent Greeks, a clear indication of the debt issue and the development package issue is a prerequisite for the Independent Greeks. Otherwise we cannot agree to any such codification. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this government with this huge war that has taken over these five months has been held and endured. And it leads to a solution that drives the International Monetary Fund from our home country. This government with the war it had, succeeded and took with it 63% of the Greek people in the referendum. This government despite the war it had, held and secured with bills and government decisions even small things, which relieved the suffering of people who were hit by the memorials. It is true that this government did everything in the negotiation. And I must admit here publicly in the Greek Parliament that the Prime Minister, at least in the days I was with them in Brussels, gave a titanic struggle himself, personally, but also all those who were with him. But an unequal struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u82	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u83	The Greek people since Monday, however, have been expecting something else from us, even with this slogan. It cannot, from Monday onwards, continue to operate this media system with that pimp we have seen in recent months. [[Applause]] It is not possible to continue contractors operating a public road to declare an income of EUR 357. It is not possible for the surnames on the Lagard list to remain without heavy taxation and confiscation of their property. It is not possible that friends of their intertwined interests who kept his political system yesterday will not pay for it until now. We cannot continue to tolerate unpunishedness by all those who the Greek people have commanded us to pay dearly for the violation of the laws and the constitution of the country. The message to Europe is clear. These "no", which were raised in labels at the time of the Prime Minister's speech, were a great victory for Greece, because they showed that the German factor is not powerful. Today's intervention in France and the United States through France has shown that Symble's plan to fly Greece with humanitarian aid outside the Eurozone will not pass tomorrow morning. These are successes of today's government, as is the unity of the South. We saw the South rise, France, Italy and Spain. We have seen forces unite against the war that Greece accepts at all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind those of our allies, who insist on insulting Greece, that Napoleon said that you should have a well-known enemy rather than a forced ally. Allies are allies with their souls. And the alliances of the peoples and the alliances of the enemy states are alliances that rely on real solidarity. Greece has shown its stand. And it can take a lot more than that. One thing, however, cannot be tolerated by the Greeks and we must not drive our country there: the division. In a monumental schematic about the fallen of the Kohima battle in India in 1944, the sign says: "When you go home, tell them about us and tell them that for their own tomorrow we gave ours today." We are going to the contrary to our consciences, to the people's mandate we have, for one single reason, because we have a responsibility not to bloodshed Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u84	Gentlemen, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u85	With a heavy heart we shall vote not to make the gift of some returning on Monday with the same measures and to continue to feed the monster of pimping. This will stop on Monday morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Fofi Generations, the President of PASOK, will take the floor and then the Members of the Golden Dawn, if they insist on the development of unconstitutionalism, unless it is absorbed by the request for a roll-call vote. If you insist, you develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u87	Sure. We also have confirmation of the government partner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u88	All right, Mr. Pappa. Ladies and gentlemen, the speakers remain to speak, and the majority of the Members of Parliament have told the Bureau that they do not intend to speak. As we go, our goal remains possible, to hold the roll-call vote at 3 a.m. at 3 a.m. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the last five years Greek women and Greeks have been constantly divided. Memorials on one side, antimony on the other. When this dilemma collapsed, the new one was invented. Europeans on the one hand, anti-Europeans on the other. And it's just these people who pulled these dividing lines, who come today to denounce the division. I say that our country has reached a very critical turning point and we should all take responsibility in this Chamber for putting an end to the division which we have caused in Greece over the last few years. The dilemmas are dramatic. The time has come for truth and for great excesses. We need decisions that are difficult, painful, but necessary and salvage. The countdown has begun. Minimal hours are left. You brought the country before a direct risk of exiting the euro area. We are faced with the bankruptcy, destruction and poverty of the Greek people. The misleading, surreal, split referendum proved to be a super weapon that, instead of threatening opponents, as you claimed, turned against the Greek people themselves. You have divided the Greek people once again. What did you do? To lead the country to an even more difficult negotiating position. Today we are here all the political forces to agree - I believe - on our overwhelming majority that the only safe road for Greece is within Europe, is within the euro. And our debate, ladies and gentlemen, is not just about the economy, it is primarily about the security of our country and our own democracy. For PASOK, participation in Europe is not just participation in a union, it is not just our common currency, it is the armour of the nation, it is the shield of protection of the Greek people that we must strengthen and not deliver. I would like to make a reference to the speech by Andreas Papandreou here in this Chamber in 1992 in the debate on the ratification of the Maastricht Treaty. He warned then, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people about the difficulties, but stressed: "The European challenge only fits with a positive response. There is no alternative course but to marginalize our country no matter what the obstacles on our way are." This insightal speech is a guide to us all these difficult years. For PASOK, there was never the dilemma in or outside Europe. We have assumed our responsibilities. We recognise the difficulties, but we never refused the European structure, because it was and remains the only perspective for the country. PASOK is once again making its positions clear against the current juncture. Firstly, the national line is very clearly and unequivocally identified in the dual mandate given to the Prime Minister after the Council of Political Heads. Not in the rupture and grexit. Yes, active participation, equal participation in the heart of Europe and in the euro area. Secondly, the sole and sole responsibility of negotiating is you, Prime Minister, your Government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and your negotiating team! You are bringing a proposal - the basis for an agreement under suffocating time restrictions. This alone does not allow any substantial evaluation of proposals and measures, many of which at first glance are inconsistent with the red lines that have been made. We will not be putting ourselves on the ground today and we will not be criticising any further. We'll do that when you bring the deal to the House. Besides, only you have the overall picture of all data and capabilities. You know, Prime Minister, on what points you should insist and where you should retreat in order to close this agreement. Thirdly, in any case, your Government has been ordered to resolve. You have a duty to proceed with responsibility, clarity, and speed, to move quickly, effectively, without further delay and, above all, without hesitation. The Eurogroup should not be completed pityfully and fatally for our country without an agreement. Everything will be judged by the result, by the happy ending. PASOK was, is, is and will remain at the forefront of the effort to secure Greece's historic acquis within the structures and institutions of the United Europe, within the euro area. We have succeeded throughout this time, ladies and gentlemen, in making use of the relationship between solidarity and cooperation with European socialists and social democrats. And we are even continuing at this very hour our efforts. Who helped, ladies and gentlemen, Greece? Who's been with us, Prime Minister, all this time in the difficult hours? The European socialists, the European Social Democrats, the President of France, François Holland, who has cut off all the extremist forces demanding Grexit, the Grexit that has returned to the debate table in the last five months! And you should be too careful not to help and not to strengthen these extreme nationalist circles in Europe that want Greece outside Europe and outside the euro! French Prime Minister Manuel Vals, speaking at the French National Assembly, stressed: "The stay of Greece in the euro and in the European Union is a geostrategic and geopolitical challenge of paramount importance. What weakens Greece is weakening us all collectively." In the same context, Mr. Renchy, and Feinman, and Moscovisi, and Stanishev and Gianni Pitella, moved and moved. I will not go into the People's Party because the previous speakers have said it all. It is the European socialists who have broken the isolation to which the government's policy has led us. Ladies and gentlemen, all Greeks and all Greek women now require clean answers, ransoming, a radical solution. In the Council of Political Heads, the Prime Minister has undertaken to bring a solution that will definitively cancel Grexit, which will safeguard Greece's position within Europe, within the euro. We give this authority to you, Prime Minister. Our vote is not a vote of confidence in the government. We do not forget that six months now, the so-called pride, but in fact another dangerous and dangerous negotiation of the Prime Minister, Mr Varoufakis, who is not even here today, Mr Kammenos, Mr Lafazani and all the ministers, has brought the country face to face with a real tragedy. The credibility, alliances, international rhetoric, the solvency of Greece was significantly reduced. The country has taken a step - step by step in a peculiar isolation that makes it a post-mortem, vulnerable, weak one. Six months have now lost opportunities, resources, opportunities. We do not forget, of course, that while in December the partners asked for a billion euros to close the evaluation, you are now proposing measures to burden Greek citizens over EUR 12 billion. The economy is sinking. Unemployment is fading. The banks are closed. No guarantee there's no wages, no pensions, no deposits. Businesses and employees in the private sector are completely on the verge of dismantling. We are not forgetting, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I'll see you all on Monday. Now is not the time to assess the agreement. Now, it's time to reach the deal. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting of the Council of Political Heads really took place in 'and five' to send a clear message to Europe, to rebuild confidence relations with our allies who had broken up, to relaunch the negotiation. The Prime Minister has responsibilities from the Constitution and a clear mandate from the Council of Political Heads to negotiate. Nevertheless, it has also been necessary for today's sitting in Parliament to be able, obviously, to convince you that you are determined to proceed with an agreement. Let it be. Our "yes" is not forgiveness, it is no forgiveness, it is no sin, it is no conscientiousness, it is not a responsibility! You have a full responsibility for the place where the country is located and for the unfavourable cost of this agreement. We do not give you a 'white check'. It is a vote of national understanding, with a clear mandate for a definitive solution and for our country's stay in Europe and the euro. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to turn to all of you. This is not an easy time for anyone. We in PASOK know that very well. With these ruthless dilemmas we met first and, unfortunately, completely alone, when all the other political forces avoided the cost of the difficult decisions that we had to take on the survival of our country. They insulted and betrayed our officials, our MPs. But we are here again, present in this new invitation to the country. We are much less, but we are determined. We are not seeking justice today. But we invite you all to look a little higher than the party interest and to stand up for everyone in the hope of the people of this place. They deserve to claim their dreams in a modern democratic, European country. Prime Minister, take responsibility for the Greek women, to the Greeks, to the new generation of our country and especially to the future generations. The fate of the country right now is in your hands! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the Golden Dawn, you have objected to unconstitutionality. You object to constitutionality and ask the House to give its opinion. We shall therefore apply paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Poppa, as you say, you have the right to speak and develop your position for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u91	Mr President, before we put our position, the Greek people put their position with a resounding 'no' in the referendum last Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u92	That is what the Greek people voted for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u93	That is what the Greek people voted for. The Greek people did not vote for what is happening here today. We are in a Parliament, then, which reminds us of Julian 1965. There may not be the tension and the civil war which threatens and terrors and which Mr Kammens argues - there is no civil war, we are not afraid of the threats of Mr Kammens, these pretexts he brings for his decision to vote on the new memorandum - there may not be the chairs that fell in 1965, but there is a real breakdown of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u94	Okay, you posted them and we saw them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u95	Why? Because we are following Europe's standards - you 'Europeans' - in Europe were holding 'no' for too long and Mr Tsipras was pleased. Let us also keep them in the Greek Parliament, so you 'Europeanists'. You don't get anything! Hold them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u96	What's wrong with us? Go ahead and finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u97	Mr President, here we have a clear dismantling of the Constitution not only as far as the draft law is concerned, but also as far as the procedure is concerned. You were present during the Conference of Presidents, where terrible things were said. These Minutes of the Conference of Presidents, which preceded the plenary, would be good to come to the public. The minutes of the Conference of Presidents should not be secret. They should therefore come to the public and the Greek people should learn that the 'extreme' procedure has been discussed within three hours. They thought we'd start at 23:30 and 3:00 at the most to be done. That is to end the Greek people with a completely unconstitutional process! As far as the substance is concerned, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unconstitutionality we are presenting and the objection we make are three reasons for this. I don't know if you found the time to read. One reason why the Chief of Independent Greeks also referred to him as Mr Kammenos - I listened carefully to him at the Step before - who said that the referendum decision is binding. In fact, the article 16 of the L. 4023/2011- even said wrong, he said that the law is 2010, while it is 2011 - which states that, "The result of a referendum on a critical national issue is binding when the vote takes at least 40% of those on the electoral lists", which happened. Last Sunday there was a referendum on a national issue, I remind you. Did you forget? Did you forget it in just six days? And for the time economy, the known questions are asked. It follows that the result of the referendum is politically and legally binding. You cannot bring a variant of the Junker proposals and, indeed, a variation not for the better - which are proposals for which the Greek people have made and said 'no' - but for the worst. So one reason is that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will be very brief, Mr President. The second reason, which is essential, as you will understand it much more and I call on the science of many of the law here, as well as constitutionalists, who objected, who might also be right, in conducting the referendum - on the proposal we have made - and it would do well to have it in their hands - of unconstitutionalism, is that it is the President of the Republic who is responsible for concluding transnational agreements on taxation, economic cooperation and the individual and the entire Greek state. And the ratification of this agreement is by law. Here you are asking to authorize - which is not given by the Golden Dawn - the so-called constitutional arch - to the government to follow and make decisions in white not with law ratification, but with a pre-approval, within three hours, to bury every hope of the Greek people for a better future. The third reason for unconstitutionalism, Mr President, is that this agreement, this memorandum - say as you wish, as you wish, an authorised memorandum, a memorandum is - a conspiracy that Mr Panos Kammenos said previously, is a new occupation. So the third memorandum grants national sovereignty. And I say, in conclusion, that the proposal itself is unconstitutional, the draft law is unconstitutional and the procedure is unconstitutional. You have no legal or moral right and therefore neither a democratic right to take such a flagrant violation of the Constitution, which Mr Kammenos himself confessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u99	The government's proposal, on which the House will decide today, is entirely consistent and consistent with the 'no' of the Greek people in the recent referendum. The Prime Minister has clearly explained the three conditions, the three conditions of this proposal, concerning the issues of reforms, the issues of debt regulation and the issues of the financing of the Greek economy. It is clear that none of this contained the proposal of creditors, which was voted against by 62% of the Greek people. It would not be important, however, to respond to the objection of the anti-constitutionalism of the Golden Dawn, because the unprecedented fact that we have heard is an objection of unconstitutionality without invoking a single article of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u100	Can I make a clarification, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u101	Give Mr. Friend a photo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u102	It was a political propaganda, an effort with the 'no' show that we saw before, with the signs of 'no'...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u103	However, the text also refers to articles, Mr Phile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u104	We heard them. There wasn't a growth...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u105	He'll be filed. Excuse me. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u106	The conditions mentioned by the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn are conditions which do not constitute unconstitutionality. I do not want to expand, because previous procedures have been chosen by Parliament with the agreement of all the parties, which do not violate the Constitution, are proportionate to what we are discussing today. On the issue of the islands and on this issue there is no violation of island status. There's a specific, detailed report. It is not a general rule concerning all islands. I find myself in the difficult position, it is the truth, but so is parliamentary practice, to respond to an euphemism of the unconstitutionality of the Golden Dawn. I do not deny them that right. We don't deny them the right to come here, a criminal organization and raise a question...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u107	The debate, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u108	The hybrid can be deleted from the Minutes! It's slander!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u109	Gentlemen, wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u110	Mr President, let the hybrid be removed from the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u111	You son of a bitch! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u112	Please, so far you've been mild. Wait, slow down! You have no reason to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u113	...they won't be insulting the third political party in the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u114	Mr Cassidy, it is good at this time, the late one, to avoid transcripts, to go mildly, with a target of 3.00 to make the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u115	Avoid injuriousness!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u116	Avoid. The other parties want someone to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u117	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u118	Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u119	Let me clarify to Mr. Friend, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u120	Wait a minute, Mr. Venizelo. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u121	There's a flagrant violation of the constitution. The President of the House has corrected you, too, Mr. Friend. The President-in-Office better say, or possibly, future President. I don't know what's going to happen today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u122	Go on, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u123	There is therefore a flagrant violation of Article 44(2) of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u124	You referred to Article 28. You're writing these.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u125	There is also a violation of the main article of the Constitution, of the first article, which says that the foundation of the constitution is popular sovereignty, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u126	You mentioned them. You developed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u127	Further there is Article 36(1), (2) and (4) of the Constitution. He's breaking today. In the three pillars of our opposition to unconstitutionalism there is an article. We recommend that Mr. Friend be much more careful. I would remind you, Mr Philly, that the Left - at least the Left of the past - has experienced exile and political persecution. So you should be more careful when you talk about the third power of the country, which has the presumption of innocence and which is currently subject to a clear political persecution for the sake of Mr Samaras and the gang of Mr Athanasios and the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. I am addressing all these hours. Avoid tensions. Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u129	Mr President, I have the very unpleasant and curious task of placing myself on this objection of unconstitutionality, because the House voted - with votes and with the Golden Dawn - in favour of a false referendum that circumvented Article 44 of the Constitution and put a misleading question under the crisis of the Greek people, and that was reflected by the working concept with which the Prime Minister then used 61% that he seconded. Mr Tsipras from the Step of the House today said: '61%, the resounding 'no', I take it as a vote of confidence'. This 61% also has the votes of the Golden Dawn in means, which he took as a vote of confidence in himself and his government, Mr. Tsipras. If, therefore, what the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative said was a normal referendum, a constitutional referendum, a referendum held in accordance with democratic traditions and principles, would be right. Because the theory of Constitutional Law unanimously says that this referendum is not advisory, it is not an official poll that we interpret after dominance. It is binding in principle. Therefore, a draft law cannot then be introduced on another principle. However, I object to the objection, because this referendum was in fact a divisive referendum that underscore the constitutional process, and it was a moment of embarrassment by Mr Tsipras. This was seen by the fact that he asked for the 'no' to be voted on and now he comes and calls on the House to say 'yes' on the same list of measures. Therefore, the arguments of the Golden Dawn do not apply, because the referendum is not literally a referendum. The second objection raised by the Golden Dawn says: Here you go to conclude a contract not with a company, such as EFSF, which is a Luxembourg company, but go to conclude a contract and a memorandum attached to the contract with the ESM, which is an international organisation subject to international law. It can therefore be reasonably said that Article 36 of the Constitution applies and that ratification is required in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution. This Memorandum, the Memorandum of Understanding, the Left Memorandum, the deepest Memorandum, the third Memorandum, will be ratified in accordance with Articles 36 and 28 and will also have relatively increased legal effect. It will be a legally stronger memorandum. Mr Tsakalotos said at the beginning of the sitting that he agreed and added a paragraph to the article only that the final agreement would come before the House for approval, namely ratification. So they're right. This agreement, in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution, will come as an agreement on international law. Why did the previous agreement signed by Mr Varoufakis not come on 20 February? Then the House didn't need to. At that time you had invented the theory that we can sign before the House, and now of course it is time for the truth. The Committee of Inquiry has also examined the theory that earlier agreements, previous programmes, have not been ratified in accordance with Article 28. That is what SYRIZA Members are excited about on the Committee of Inquiry, which will now have a very big object on the third memorandum. They have not realised that the previous contracts were contracts between the subjects of private law, because the first contract with the States was in fact a contract with a group of lenders and the second contract with a company. Now, however, legal data have changed. Thus, the Golden Dawn objection is substantial, but it has been accepted by the government. For the government, which was hidden from the House on 20 February, is now coming with the cover it wants to have from the Opposition, and is not afraid of its own MPs and says 'I bring these matters to the House, because there is nothing else to do, because it is time for the truth'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The objection is therefore raised in a way which is incomplete, as we say, because in any case with the amendment adopted by the Minister, it will come to the House for ratification and we will have a very long debate. But this agreement must tell us how much the loan will be, because so far no one has told us how much the loan will be. We are giving an authorisation without having said how much loan we will get for what purpose. Is there any provision to recapitalise the banks? Mr Tsipras told us that we will have a purely European programme, that we will not have a troika, because the IMF is not in. But he's inside as a supervisor, he's not a creditor. The program of the IMF ends on March 31, 2016 and is missing 16 billion to get. Is the current IMF programme no longer in place? So, false what he heard. The IMF program exists. The financial scheme has not yet been presented. And, of course, what Golden Dawn implied is the presumption of the ambiguity and inaccuracy of the position of the Prime Minister, who said earlier, "Look at what success, we will not have a primary surplus of 4.5%, but we will reach up to 3%". He failed to say that this is because we are losing growth rates, because we would have a growth rate of 2.5% in 2015, while now we are going to a recession of 3%, a gap of 5.5 points of GDP, of 10 billion. That is why Hardouvelis e-mail had a cost of 1 billion and the Tsipra Memorandum has a cost of principle - why we have not reached the end - 12 billion. And, of course, there is something else that the Golden Dawn gentlemen have not said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u130	Gentlemen, be quiet. It's over, Mr. President. You're very welcome. Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u131	I wonder now that you have abandoned the theories of burdensome and shameful debts, now that Parliament is giving an order contrary to what the infamous Committee on Truth, the non-parliament, now that you are joining what we did and managed in 2012, when we ran a total of 180 billion, now that those who sign the convention will apologise to the Greek people?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u133	Will they apologise to the Greek people for the deception, contagion, embodiment and, above all, why have they poisoned the soul and mind of the Greek people?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u135	So the request for unconstitutionality is not the case, but the great problem of constitutionality, which is a lack of respect for the truth and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u136	Thank you. Mr. Theocharis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. I thought I had lived a lot, but finally I live today on the night of the great sighs. Struggles from the Golden Dawn, as they want to defend the Constitution, sighing by the President of the Independent Greeks for the bloodshed that can happen to the Greeks, while the Armed Forces told us last week, they guarantee the country's internal security.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u138	We're talking about unconstitutionalism. What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u139	Avoid, too, and let's drink to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u140	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just a few seconds. Unconstitutionalism is completely unfounded. Struggles and members of the coup d'état, as they try to reconcile consciousness, national debt and party cheque. Let everyone restrain their tears together, because we have a funeral. Today we are celebrating the hypocrisy of the political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u141	Thank you. Is there a party representative who hasn't spoken? The President of Parliament, Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u142	Mr. President, excuse me. The rapporteurs will take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u143	You're very welcome, Mr. Varvichiotis. It's planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u144	I beg your pardon, Mr President, but the procedure provides that the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u145	You are noble and you are defending the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u146	One minute, Mr President, on a point of order. I may be noble, and I will always be noble, but you must observe it. He took the floor, after he was recommended, the Minister received the floor by the Prime Minister and spoke the heads of the parties in opposition. However, the rapporteurs must also speak of this bill and then place them on a privileged basis, as the President of this House has the right to. Let the party be put forward by his rapporteur, let the other parties be put forward and then the only MEP who has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u147	Mr Varvitsiotis, what I did had been informed of your parliamentary representative. Don't give me up for this. He was briefed. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u148	Mr President, the announcements in this House are officially made and are not secretly made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u149	Your parliamentary representative had been informed. Don't give up on me! Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at such times we must act and speak with institutional sincerity and political outrage. We must each and every one of us take the responsibility for us, shield, as our conscience dictates us, the sanctuaries, the unresolved, the unresolved righteous and the rights of the people and society, to safeguard the legacy of those who have given their lives and their freedom to live in freedom today, to preserve the heritage of the young and the next generations and human civilisation and even those intransigent values that discern and move our personal and collective existence. How each chooses and decides to do it can be different and no one has the right to decisions that come out of an existential process and to test them, to punish them, to lose them or to use them for political consumption. All of us are judged and judged by our attitude and decisions, by our 'yes' and 'no', by our actions and omissions, by our consistency, by our resistances, by our selfless disapproval and selflessness. For the last five months, the government, with the left and the anti-immemorial forces, has fought unequally against a regime of suffocation and extortion in a Europe that has betrayed its founding purposes, the welfare of the peoples and societies, in a Europe that uses the common currency, the euro, not as a means of achieving social well-being, such as every currency, but as a lever and tool for compelling the unscrupulous peoples and leaders, in a Europe that is transformed into a dreadful prison for its peoples, while built to be their common hospitable home. The Greek people trusted in this government the great case of its discharge from the bonds of the Memorandum, from the size of supervision and supervision imposed on society under the pretext of debt, a debt that is illegal, unfair, shameful and unsustainable, as demonstrated by the preliminary conclusion of the Committee on Truth Public Debt...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u151	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u152	It's all right, Mr. President. ...and as he concluded in his recent report and the International Monetary Fund, which was aware of the non-viable debt since 2010. A debt that did not arise as a weather phenomenon, but which was created by previous governments by means of contracts for corruption, mediation, interlocutory, with terms of letonite clauses and astronomical interest rates, from which foreign banks and corporations benefited. A debt that the troika and the previous governments have turned from private to public, saving the French and German banks, but also the Greek private ones and condemning the Greek people in conditions of humanitarian crisis and enforcing the hated organs of mediacy, to terrorise and deceive the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u153	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u154	Mr President, that's all right. It is understandable that they disturb what I say and are understandable and who are disturbing. This debt, which has not been created by neither the people nor the current government, has been used for five years as a tool for the detonation of the people by forces operating within Europe in terms of economic totalitarianism, without having the moral stature and historical right. Germany has so far not paid its debts to the small and opposing Greece which has been identified as heroism, debts exceeding the alleged Greek public debt, debts valued by the relevant Committee of the General Accounting Committee of the State, created by the previous government, amounting to EUR 340 billion, when the Greek public debt is alleged to amount to EUR 325 billion. Germany enjoyed the greatest debt write-off after World War II, in order to get back to the generous partnership of the small Greece. Germany has subjected companies of corrupters who traded with previous governments and parties supporting them, such as ‘SIEMENS’, and protected them from Greek justice. And yet, Germany behaves like it owes it the history and the Greek people, as if they wanted to take the historical repetition for its atrocities, promoting and imposing a policy that constitutes a crime, not only against the Greek people, but crime against humanity, in the criminal sense of the extensive and systematic attack on a population with a view to its calculated partial or total invasion. And, unfortunately, governments and institutions that must be lifted to the extent of their history and responsibility are costing behind this attack. Ladies and gentlemen, the roaming of the people and the government in conditions of suffocation and a threat of violent bankruptcy, with artificial and conscientious creation of humanitarian disaster conditions, is a direct violation of all international human rights protection treaties, the UN Charter, European treaties and the Statute of the International Criminal Court itself. Extortion is not legal and creating conditions for the elimination of freedom of speech does not allow anyone to speak of choices. The lenders are blackmailing the government, acting fraud, while they have known since 2010 that this debt is not viable. They act consciously, having prejudged the need to provide humanitarian aid to Greece by means of statements. Humanitarian aid for what? For an unexpected and irresponsible natural disaster? For an unpredictable earthquake? A flood, a fire? Oh, no! Humanitarian aid because of their conscious and calculated decision and choice to deprive the people of their means of survival, by closing the neck of liquidity as retaliation for the democratic choice of the government and Parliament to call for a referendum and to appeal to the people to decide for their future. The Greek people honoured the government that trusted them. He honored the House that gave him the right to take his life in his hands and decide on his fate. He said a brave and proud historian "no" in extortion, "no" in ceremonies, "no" in the memorial tombs of sublime, "no" in repayment of a debt that did not create it and does not account for it, "no" in new measures of impoverishment and annihilation. This "no" stubbornly insists on converting it into "yes" and "yes" collide with them those responsible for the memorials and those who benefited from them, those who created the debt and those who loaded it on the back of the people. This 'no' of the people goes beyond all of us and obliges us to defend his right to fight for his life, fight, not to live half or life a snitch. Be proud of what he will be inherited to the next and mankind. The government today is blackmailing to consent to those who do not represent him, who do not stand up and fight to overthrow and prevent. The Prime Minister spoke with sincerity, bravery, boldness and selflessness. He is the youngest Prime Minister and the one who fought as much as any of his predecessors for the democratic and social rights of the people and young generations, who represented and represents our generation and gives it hope. I honor him and I will always honor him for this attitude and choice. At the same time, I consider my institutional responsibility as President of the House not to close my eyes nor to pretend that I do not understand blackmail, not to make it easy. The contents of the agreement could never be voted on and legitimised. I think the same thing is true and would apply to the Prime Minister, who is currently blackmailing the survival of this people. I think the same thing is true and would apply to the government and to the parliamentary groups that support it. My institutional responsibility vis-à-vis history is to say today's debate and vote. I think that this is how I am most useful to the people, to the government, to the Prime Minister, to the future generations and to European societies, in writing the real conditions under which Parliament is called upon to take decisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u155	Resign!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u156	Please be quiet for the President to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u157	It's all right, Mr. President. ...and disprove the extortion as it imposes and demandes the old Article 1.1.4, Article 120 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u158	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u159	The Greek people are the second to suffer this hostilities within the Eurozone. Cyprus preceeded in March 2013. The attempt to impose measures which the people have removed by referendum through the blackmail of closed banks and the threat of bankruptcy is a violent breakdown of the Constitution and the deprivation of Parliament by the power given to it by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u160	Oh, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u161	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u162	Each one is entitled and must resist, defend the country and democracy in the way he chooses and decides. No resistance to history was easy. However, we have claimed the vote and the people's confidence in the difficult things. And we must respond to the difficulties and not be afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u163	What are you doing? It's not a theater here. This is a parliament. They should come down and vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u164	Get them out! They're just leaving. Get them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u165	Get out of the gallery!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u166	Gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u167	The lady brought her stand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u168	Please get out. Gentlemen, be quiet! I would remind you that at 3.00 p.m. we are interrupting the roll-call vote. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Accepting opposition to unconstitutionality]] Not accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Not accepting the objection of unconstitutionality]] It is clear that the number of Members required and provided for by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has not been raised and the objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u169	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u170	I would like all of you to make things easier. Mr. Venizelos, you and Mr. Cremastino have asked for the floor. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber from the New Democracy Ward]] Ladies and gentlemen, can we finish this? Will you be quiet? Mr. Venizelo, I'd like you to make it easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u171	I'll make it easier. Wait a minute, I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u172	Gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr Venizelos and Mr Cremastino have asked for a moment, for a minute you said the floor on the Rules of Procedure. Please have the floor for a minute on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u173	The incidental point on the Rules of Procedure I would like to raise, Mr President, is this: I have just come to the Chamber of Deputies insulted the constitutional and national patriotism of the whole Parliament, the parties of opposition and the parties of the Couple. [[Applause from the ward of PASOK and New Democracy]] He had the illusion that he was talking to history. No contact with...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u174	Is that on the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u175	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u176	Mr. President, you had to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u177	Is that on the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u178	Please! Let Mr. Venizelos finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u179	...as soon as you heard this misconduct against democracy and parliamentarianism, call it back to order. The fact that you have not revoked it constitutes a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u180	Please very much, which one of the rapporteurs or the special speakers...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u181	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u182	Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u183	Mr President, as we agreed at the Conference of Presidents, the procedure should be terminated at 3.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u184	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u185	Our proposal is - and we are doing so - that the rapporteurs should be withdrawn and that we proceed to the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u186	Does all the parliamentary groups agree? Do you all agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, two motions for a roll-call vote have been tabled in accordance with Rule 72(1a) of the Rules of Procedure: the first by the People's Association - Golden Dawn on the article alone of the draft law and the second by the Communist Party of Greece in principle and on the only article whose texts are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u188	I shall first read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of members of the People's League - Golden Dawn to determine whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Nikolaos Michaloliacos. Here you go. Mr. Michael Arvanitis. Here you go. Mr. Galeos. Here you go. Mr. George Germenis. Here you go. Mr. Fotius Gran. Here you go. Mr. Antonio Gregos. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Zaroulia. Here. Mr. Elias Cassidy. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos. Abstentions. Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Artemis Matthaopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Michos. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Barbarousis. Here you go. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros. Here you go. Mr. Christos Pappas. Here you go. Mrs. Despina Sveroni-Hondronasius. Here. Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. I shall now read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Here you go. Mrs. Alexandra Pappiga. Here. Mr. Athanasios Vardalis. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Gerasimidou. Here. Mr. Ioannis Giokas. Present Mrs. Liana Canelle. Here. Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. Here you go. Mr Christos Katsotis. Here you go. Mr. George Lambroulis. Here you go. Mrs. Diamond Manolaku. Here. Mr. George Marinos. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Paphilis. Here you go. Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis. Here you go. Mr Stavros Tassos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u189	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u190	Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u191	I would like to thank the Members, because in really difficult and unprecedented conditions for parliamentary data - in fact it was necessary to speed up procedures, but without difficulty - a difficult procedure has been carried out both in committee and in plenary today. I would like to say that this procedure has been set out as necessary. It was decided to be necessary for the government - which is at a difficult stage in the negotiation, and we are all empowered today on the basis of this bill called on the Members to vote, but in particular the Minister of Finance, who will travel tomorrow in Brussels and will be at a critical meeting of the Eurogroup - to have the greatest possible support in trying to achieve what is most in a critical negotiation, at the most critical moment, in the interests of the public interest, for the benefit of the Greek side. It is obvious that in these critical times, each one’s conscience is burdened. We're interfering with our boi and the boi of history. But at the same time, it is clear that the authorisation of the Minister of Finance at this critical moment is a high-responsibility option. As far as the Members of the government are concerned, it is the minimum confidence in the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Vice-President of the Government, in all the government that now gives a five-month battle with self-determination in order to assert the country's interests at this critical moment. [[Applause]] But also for Members of Parliament of all the parties, it is a vote of conscience, but also of high national responsibility at this critical moment. And on the basis of this national debt, we all have to make difficult decisions. I am sure that we will stand up to the level of our responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of Article and the entire draft law of the Treasury of Finance is hereby concluded: 'To negotiate and conclude a loan agreement with the European Stability Mechanism (ESSM)'. We shall be adjourning for five minutes, so that we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Do you accept the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u194	The House has agreed. There will be a roll-call vote in principle and on the only article of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘To negotiate and conclude a loan contract with the European Stability Mechanism (ESSM)’. MEP: Panagiota Dritcheli from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy, pursuant to Rule 72(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. According to paragraph 6 of that Article, the recipients of the draft law in principle and the only of the article are ‘NEI’. Those who are not accepting the bill at the outset and only say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u195	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues, Mr George Bornou and Mr Euclidis Tsakalotou. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have received letters from colleagues, Mr Eleni Alonitou and Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present and present they would vote 'NAI'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. [[Photo taken by protocol p. 146a]] They voted 291 MPs. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 251 Members voted. [[Applause]] Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 32 MPs voted. 'PARON' were voted 8 MPs. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. The only article in the draft law, 'NAH', voted 251 MPs. Under Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, 32 Members voted against. 8 Members voted in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u199	The draft law of the Ministry of Finance, therefore: ‘In order to negotiate and conclude a loan contract with the European Stability Mechanism, ESM’, was accepted in principle and in the majority of Article. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u200	Does this House accept the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u201	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘In order to negotiate and conclude a loan contract with the European Stability Mechanism, ESM’ was accepted, in a single debate, in principle by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-10-S2-commons.u203	With the consent of the House, 3.36 minutes will be closed.
