ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the principle, articles and the whole draft law: ‘Amendment of the provisions of the Code on Income Tax and other Provisions’. We would remind you that the relevant Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr Nadia Valvaani, and the rapporteurs and special speakers spoke at yesterday's sitting. Today's session will conclude the debate and the vote of the bill. The speech will be received by two speakers from SYRIZA, two speakers from some from New Democracy, one speaker appointed by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, one speaker appointed by "The Potami", one speaker appointed by the Communist Party of Greece, one speaker appointed by the Independent Greeks and one speaker appointed by the PASOK. I invite Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, because the hours for our country are extremely critical, I believe that it is good that I am at this step in the debate of a bill in which the Qualified Opposition of the country, New Democracy, once again proves that it is not going to exercise a sterile opposition. I therefore oppose the hypocrisy comment on the form of urgency in which the draft law, hand and distraction comes, because we only have two weeks by the end of the deadline for submitting tax declarations, but also the major issue that nowhere in the report is mentioned where the revenues from those that are lost by these arrangements will be found. I am going through all this and standing by the fact that the New Democracy, as its rapporteur, Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos, will vote for the bill, because we believe that it corrects imperfections which the New Democracy has recognised, but also the tax administration. That is why I also urge you, Minister, to accept the substantiated proposals and comments made by our rapporteur, Mr Vesiropoulos. I believe that it would be a wishful task if there were a practical response to the invitation made by the President of the New Democracy, Antonis Samaras, for national consultation, even at this very hour. Two weeks remains until the deadline for the extension, which you agreed on 20 February, to extend the existing programme. And we don't play with words now, we don't have time for that. After 30 June you must admit that we are entering uncharted waters. And I am referring so much to the situation in which the country will come, as a result of the fact that it will not fulfil - I suspect - its obligations towards creditors, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the bond which expires in just one month's time. We also do not know what will happen with the banks, which at the moment, as you know, have support from the well-known ELA mechanism of the European Central Bank. In order to be able to see - at least to investigate - if there is a consensus in this call for national consultation this time, I think we should at least have a common starting point for what the reality is. Allow me here, of all the statements I have heard lately, to stand in the last statement by the Minister of Finance, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, who said: 'Today is a very nice day. It's a very nice day, because it's the moment of purity." And I honestly ask, ladies and gentlemen. Is there any of you who are MPs and represent the world and you hear the cry of anxiety, the insecurity, the uncertainty, which will agree that today is a very nice day for Greece? Because I don't want you to accuse me of ideoscopy, of subjectivity, I'll speak with data. As regards growth, the forecast for growth rate was 2.9% until recently. Now, at best in cases, the European Commission says that we will have 0.5% growth and there are forecasts, for example from the SMP that say we will have a recession of -1.5%. As far as unemployment was concerned, compared with the corresponding period last year, it is now 25.6%, while it was 25.1%, it was tending to fall and it is now growing. As far as revenues are concerned, based on the latest state budget figures, there is a delay of about EUR 1 billion - namely EUR 884 million - and, with the continuation of the internal payment stop, the divergence also from our four-month deadlines for outstanding debts is over EUR 2 billion. It is known that the Government has proceeded with internal forced lending with the Legislative Content Act, which'specifies' the latest cash available from the General Government institutions. [[SM]] [[GA]] Banks have left 30 billion since the beginning of the year. Just yesterday, a "very nice day for the country", they left 600 million more from the Greek banks. The'red' loans have reached around 80% of GDP, the cost of borrowing banks through the ELA has increased by about 500 million, i.e. 22% increase over the previous period. We have also been degraded by international rating agencies, spreads are "in God". And, of course, I come to the real economy, to the market, which, due to the uncertainty, due to insecurity, is essentially clinically dead. In the meantime, for the last four months, we have been living in this cloud of creative ambiguity, which is accompanied by - let me and me establish a new term - with the optimology of the government. That's what the government does. The agreement is now coming to us, Mr Tsipras, the Minister in question, on Sunday the agreement is coming to the Eurogroup. The agreement is coming to the G7 at the meeting with Merkel. So what is the reality? The reality is that we have lost our credibility abroad. The reality is, we've lost our allies. The reality is that we are now discussing the possibility of Grexit every day. Every day we are discussing the possibility of bankruptcy in the country. Every day, the great capital controls are discussed. And the reality is that the negotiations are now officially adjourned. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u3	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u4	In the meantime, without official information, we have seen forty-seven pages from the Greek Government and eight more received this weekend, which, for the sake of brief - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - I will describe them as taxes, taxes and other taxes. The usual suspects, the private economy, entrepreneurship once again pay the account of the client and the party state. There is nothing to develop, nothing to privatise and PPP - because we do not want these things! - nothing at all except additional taxes. This is the situation, and I am not even referring to the Thessaloniki Programme that has gone for a walk, to the red lines that went out into the sand. I'm not even talking about it. So this, ladies and gentlemen, is 'a nice day for our country'. And I wonder: if this is a nice day according to Mr Varoufakis, a bad day for the country, what exactly is it? However, since neither I nor you nor the Greek citizens want to live on a bad day, especially with these standards that I have just set you, I think I will go to the second part of the statement - to close - of the Minister, that is, 'the moment of purity'. And I must say that it is one of the few moments that I agree with the Minister of Finance. This is the moment of purity and this purity should be given by the Prime Minister of Greece, Alexis Tsipras, who should say clearly to the Greek people: Does he want or does he not want the country to stay in the eurozone? He doesn't want a deal or he doesn't want a deal? While I have since believed - sincerely - that the deadlock in which we are found to be due to inexperience, incompetence, ideologies, a combination of all these things, when I see them here, what is happening, I am beginning to wonder. I wonder if it was not always the plan, that is to say, to lead to a break, because I see 'blaming game', which foreigners are saying, 'blaming game', that it is the fault of others that they want to shoot Tsipras. We need to resolve this. Let Mr Tsipras tell us whether he wants an agreement or not. And if he wants a deal, can he bring a deal? Can this agreement pass through the parties? Can it pass through the parliamentary majority that supports the government without the declared one being lost? Take note, the responsibility for the negotiations and the point at which we are situated lies with Mr Tsipras. He chose the strategy, the negotiating team, approved the text of forty-seven plus eight pages. Mr. Tsipras did all this. So if he's looking for accomplices to look elsewhere. But if he's looking for national understanding, we're here. Even at this very last moment, we will be able to find an agreement, which will be the best possible for the Greek people and which will keep us in the eurozone. Because I fear that if that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, may be justified. Because I will say that today on 16 June when I was at the Step of the House, it was indeed a very nice day, because it was one day that we still had choices to stay within the euro area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u5	But you too are too strict with Mr. Varoufakis. It was found on the beautiful Crete, it found a nice day, it was termed meteorologically and not economically. You blamed him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u6	Meteorologically, in fact!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u7	Oh, meteorologically! That's great!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Mrs Chanaka has the floor in response to Mrs Cassimatis, who is in the Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with a comment on what I heard more ahead. When Mrs. Bakoyannis comes out on television and says that tomorrow the banks are closing and she doesn't get it back, does Mrs. Bakoyannis have responsibility for the fact that the world, my dad, your dad, scares and goes to the bank to get the money she has? Does he have a responsibility? I want you to allow me to make another comment. I have heard too many figures, and I have also heard that the President of the Government should have an agreement. You said: 'Should he be able to bring an agreement'? You're going to vote on this agreement with what we're asked for today, wage cuts, pension cuts? I'm asking you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u10	They've been interrupted, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u11	No, no, they didn't. I also heard the statement made in English. Ladies and gentlemen, in other circumstances, such a bill would not normally come to Parliament. And it would not come because it would be very difficult for a normal government, even conservative, to legislate so irresponsiblely, so unresponsiblely and especially with such analgesia. For the previous government, however, these were fine letters. It was enough for a copy of the Troika's mandate to send people indiscriminately - that is, what you want us to do today - the unemployed, the students, the householders who from bad luck had a home, a car or a pocket money from a work of the leg, our compatriots who stay abroad and inherited their father's account or left open a common account to send money to their parents. The documents of the Court of First Instance and of the Court of First Instance 4172 were relentless, they had to pay those who didn't, of course, have in the name of extending the tax base, with the Lagard list and the rest of the lists being in drawers. And who come today as honors? The Members of the New Democracy, PASOK and Potamio, who, until a few months ago, was sitting in the chair of Mrs Savvaidou, also chosen at the time of the troika and Mr Samaras. Do they disagree with the bill? Not at all, they confess to the words at least. They consider the bill to be a 'just law correction of irrational and unjust provisions, a good bill, and in the right direction', as the rapporteur said, and so much so good that neither we, the MPs, could say. They agree to disagree. And what do they disagree with? They disagree with the urgency procedure. Isn't it? Mr. Mitsotakis disagrees because he wanted a direct relay of his appearance yesterday. He was tempted at the same time that Parliament's television relayed the meeting of the Committee on Truth for Public Debt. Why are you so scared? Is it because he wants to forget the modernisation of the public administration that he has attempted with supposed assessments and redundancies? The spokesman for Potamio, Mr. Theocharis, only for ignorance can no one blame him. Now he's seen the injustices? However, I don't remember pointing them out more publicly. Maybe because then he was a professional and today he's a MP. He was taken away by his opposition ostracist and described us as a Buddhist party. We could take it for a compliment, I especially could take it. But it goes too far to tell us, in a congress with New Democracy and the PASOK, that we cannot negotiate. It's too much! Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition deadlock for some of Parliament's wings is obvious for that, and they are even caught by this bill, 'the tax cone', according to Mr Theocharis - I liked your word very much, as you understood - to remind us of their negotiating abilities. [[CB]] [[1AR]] Some even ask for national consultation, others ask for a national team from pro-European forces and some others strongly want any agreement with the lenders to vote on it. I call on all those who constituted, but also those who supported the Memorandum Governments and the Memorandum Policies to make a little patience. Let them take an example from the Greek people, he knows and cannot be misled, he knows who's pretending, he knows who's fighting, he knows how to win the Greek people, he trusts and he strongly supports the government in the tough and difficult negotiation that he's conducting with partner lenders. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill solves some of the urgent problems of the tax system, corrects, even at the last minute, what the previous government has legislated. It's not her bill, it corrects the previous one. In addition to this, the chances of taking part in the construction of the natural TPA pipeline and the Greek companies are reinforced, the relatives of the recent shipwreck are being treated with sensitivities and some distortions of the infamous ENPIA are being corrected, which I hope will soon be abolished as promised. As far as Article 3 and its withdrawal, as I said on Friday, in Kavala is concerned, there is the only factory for producing phosphate fertilisers using natural gas for raw material. The lifting of the levy on the use of natural gas is foreseen, after the article had been left, that it would bring the company a write-down of EUR 9 million. Our aim was not to put them in its pocket, but to enter a special account so that, firstly, the factory which has been modernised since 1985, secondly, the workers are paid in time that they have now been paid for months and, thirdly, the wages of around EUR 500 are adjusted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't want a minute yet, Mr. President. I am here on parentheses: I insist on this because it is very important that the phosphate fertiliser factory keeps its function, but not the way it is today. We need to see it again, see it deep. We are ready for the Kavala Members from all sides of Parliament to help. The debts to the pensioners must be paid, the PPA must be paid, the necessary improvement must be made, both in the safety of the factory and around the area, because, as we said, it is a chemical industry and the environment is not at the best. In view of the above, I welcome the withdrawal of the Rule and, as we have said, I am ready and the rest of the Members to help to achieve this. I am voting for the rest of the bill, both in the articles and in the total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Chanaca. I very much welcome Mr Christos Hadjisavvas, Member of the Golden Dawn, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. On a proper basis, the bill, but a little. It's a drop in an ocean of monuments. We had memorials before, there's going to be a new deal now, you say, a Memorandum. Impossible for tax income and for the compensation of relatives from tragedies. A characteristic example: we were approached by some members of the Thessaloniki motorists and said they had given as aid the families of the victims of the shipwreck in Italy 1,000 euros and finally the families were to take about 300-400 euros, because all the others were reservations and taxes. It is important and the forecast for natural gas. The measure must be extended, although you know that the business problem is not just natural gas. There are fixed expenses, which month goes in - month out, work - they don't work, they have to pay. PPC, for example, is kneeling down businesses, puts in line with square costs of transport and network maintenance. This is something very important, and you should see that too. [[PE]] [[CB]] In Kilkis, where I come from, and in all Northern Greece, the operations are suffocating. They have to deal with the state, which sees them as enemies, treats them as tax-raisers, whether they pay or not they pay. They have to face a financial paradise in Bulgaria, where companies that can find you an office are now advertised, to pay you the cost of their own services, rent, and any other work you want for a year with 2,000 euros. These must be dealt with. Otherwise, the doses are good, the settings are good, but these are the results. Why didn't business pay? By conviction they did not pay their contributions and taxes and they now need hundreds to make adjustments? Okay, well, they're good, but they don't solve the problem. We, as a Golden Dawn, as a popular movement, do not believe in fighting order. We believe that all levels of the economy are a people. Both the workers and the businessmen and the professionals. We believe in the cohesion of the social fabric, and we do not want its burglary. Incentives must be given to businesses to invest their profits. Incentives to be given to businesses to hire employees to pay contributions. They should finally stop seeing the worker as an exit, but see him as an investment. In conclusion, I would like to remind you again and not by my own words: you can eat in the world a hole in a house or a dirthole for food, but when the time comes, you should at least put that hole in your house and the dirt-breeding for food to give, or else the world will rise up. He said that, of course, Engels for the capitalists of the bourgeois right, but, as far as I can see, in a few days' time it's going to fit perfectly with the Left Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Hajisavva. Mr. Cartassulis isn't here. Mr. Papachristopoulos is not here. Mr. Kegeroglu isn't here. Mrs. Cassimatti is not here. Mr. Christos Dimas is not here. Mr. Consola Emmanuel from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at this critical juncture, as has been said from all sides of the Chamber today, the need for national consultation must be demonstrated. It has been pointed out in this Chamber by all the political actors of all the political actors, and in public speaking outside the House. It is therefore necessary today to find that the ideas, the illusions that have already been "scanned" by reality itself and to see the next step, that is, all together. The government today would like to see the framework of the negotiation being the famous mail Hardouvelis, since its forecasts are much weaker than required, discussed or proposed by all government actors, but also by the troika, by the government or the institutions. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Voutsi, himself, has already confessed. In December, ladies and gentlemen, we were discussing measures of 1.5 billion that the lenders wanted, and at that time the government was discussing interventions of 800 million euros. Since then, the account has risen to unreasonable heights. Five months of uncertainty, paralysis and insecurity. Five months during which the banks left 35 billion. Mrs Asimakopoulou said before that the outflows reached EUR 600 million yesterday by the banks, under the weight of developments in Brussels and without calculating the outputs from the automatic take-off machines. She's also a remarkable parameter. Five months at the same time, a supposed negotiation with lasting relics, without realistic strategy and objectives. Five months in which the country's negotiating position is constantly deteriorating. We live it every day. The compromise reached by the government is becoming more and more painful. We saw yesterday reports leaking from Maximos. [[RG]] [[PE]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have wasted valuable time. That is the common finding. The loss of sense of time is what characterizes the valuation of government work to date. Our rapporteur, Mr Vésyropoulos, has pointed this out to the Commission and here, referring to this bill. It is a bill whose responsibility lies with the Ministry of Finance and regulates issues that have a universal consensus - it is worth saying it - and the need for them to be settled before too long. If you had shown, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the same sensitivity that you had shown both for ERT and for the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, we would not have been able today to discuss an important bill with urgency. At the moment, the submission of tax declarations and even one of Parliament's best moments has already begun would be if this urgency procedure for this draft law was not in place. You know, the bill was tabled Thursday evening, it was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the next day, and it is even debated today and voted by the National Representation. If SYRIZA was in Opposition, I do not know what voices would have been recorded in this Chamber and we do not know whether he would have consented to the basic principles of the bill. I'm imagining yours. The issues regulated by the bill relate to the application of the Income Tax Code that was first applied for the incomes of 2014 and is given the delay at the moment, even now that all these malfunctions had been identified and had to have been regulated since the first months of the year. But not now that the process of submitting tax declarations has already begun, and now that, for businesses, these issues relating to the declarations of their own economic activities last year have been developed and made known in the General Commercial Register. There is therefore an inconvenience among the citizens, business, accountants, economists, and there was time to regulate what was included in the seven articles of the bill. In other words, clear and specific directives could have been adopted in time, but also circulars. The issues that cure these provisions were also highlighted by us and by the tax administration. Who could disagree with the regulation on abolition as a presumption of living for a car in Greece or a bank account for residents abroad? That is rightly abolished the unjust burden that would have arisen. In the right direction, too, is the regulation on the amendment on how to tax the added difference in presumptions of taxpayers who have only an income from capital or capital gain, i.e. in cases of interest, dividends, rents and shares, which do not exceed EUR 9,500. I believe, however, that you should pay particular attention, Minister, to the proposal tabled by our rapporteur, Mr Besyropoulos, Head of Taxation of the New Democracy, to include in the regulation and incomes resulting from the gains of participation in personal companies that have a simplified system, simple books. Same thing, always on the basis of 9,500 euros. Because they will all be taxed at a rate of 26% plus tax advance. Who can also disagree with the provision on occasional or opportunistic workers with an income of up to EUR 6,000 and a imputable income of up to EUR 9,500 000, who have not started work and who will be taxed on the rates applicable to employed and retired persons? Although normally this trader should not be taxed at all, since they are people with occasional and short-term incomes fighting everyday life, they fight for survival. Ladies and gentlemen, the government gives the delay in the agreement and the consequences it has for the government itself to resist real measures. Yesterday afternoon the government's proposals, including an increase in corporate taxation from 26% to 29%, were made public. Isn't that a substantive measure, ladies and gentlemen? We all see it, Mr. Cameroon, we islanders, who live the entrepreneurship, the backbone of the economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises? Do you understand what happens next time? I believe that the measure will be the charismatic shot at the Greeks' business and you choose it, because you obviously do not dare and do not want to touch the deep state, at the same time that the indications are growing that you are building a new party state. [[FT]] [[RG]] Are the increases in VAT, which will have a horizontal impact and will touch the poorest and weakest Greeks, not a material measure, will they also lead to the reduction of the competitiveness of sectors that are the engine of our national economy, such as tourism? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u16	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u17	The abolition of the reduced rates of VAT you cannot imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what impact it will have. You heard the business operators in the previous period. Officially, these bodies have announced in the prospect of an increase in VAT. In the tourism sector, for example, competitiveness will be reduced. You know geopolitically what the country means in relation to neighbours, which means less visitors, less revenues, less taxation, unemployment in tourism. In the local economy there will be a major blow to increasing living costs in society. Living on the islands will increase at least 20%. The objective of the 350 million that you have cost the financial benefit of abolishing the reduced VAT rates will not be achieved, ladies and gentlemen. It's a vision fraudulent to entrepreneurship. Is it not a material measure to increase VAT on accommodation in tourism, which makes our tourism product, particularly at this juncture that has been closed for three years? There are still no contracts in the middle of next year in some companies, because they are waiting for tax measures. You also know the tour operators monitor developments in the country. Do you feel, perhaps, about the negative effects on the GDP to which tourism contributes exclusively, on the increase in unemployment, which is given in particular in professions which are of a seasonal nature especially for island regions? Tourism cannot withstand excessive tax burdens on which you give a false class dimension. Because in tourism, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the big businessmen, the big businessmen. You're wrong if you think that. Tourism is small family enterprises. Tens of thousands are the professionals, the small family businesses in the country. They're the ones you're hurting. Tourism cannot pay the government's choice, this option that will touch business, instead of touching the deep state. So instead of touching the deep state, we're swelling it. At this time when the contracts are closing for next year and have literally frozen, it is good to turn your interest to the islands, to the businesses that are working there, which contribute hugely to the country's Gross National Product. The tour operators know what's going on in the country right now. They ask, require either the same prices for the next few years or price reductions, as they know you are planning an increase in taxation on the tourist product. That is the framework within which we will measure the losses. Ladies and gentlemen, public expenditure, wages and pensions are paid and dependent on the wealth-generating economy, is linked to growth. The growth, however, creates entrepreneurship and the private sector. The government must seek a way of understanding. To isolate drachma theorists and isolate these voices that isolate the country itself from abroad. Today, as ever, there is a need for national planning. A national strategic development plan is needed. That's what we'll agree on. And the national plan is a matter for all of us, it is not a matter of one or two parties or the government and the Civilian Anti-Population Officer. It is a matter of all those who believe in Greece in progress, development and major changes, of Greece that will continue to be part of the European family. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Consola. Mr. Dimas, are you ready to talk because you've just come?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u19	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u20	Please, come to Stepma. Mr Christos Dimas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I will speak of seven truths and two myths. First truth: Minister, you show a special preference for entering bills in the House using the urgency procedure. If I am not mistaken, you have never chosen the formal legislative procedure, despite the fact that your party, at least in the election, was particularly critical of procedures such as today. I am sure the President of Parliament, despite the fact that he is now absent, agrees with this practice, otherwise, if he had disagreed, we all know that he is expressing himself freely. Madam Minister, we are not opposed to the arrangements introduced by this bill. Indeed, they take into account objective distortions that exist. [[LA]] [[FT]] On this occasion, I invite you to reconsider the deadline you have given for payment of tax returns. You knew from the outset that the time you gave was limited. This proves to be inadequate in practice, with the system falling often and yet only 1/5 of the obligors having made statements. We hope that you will take the initiative to dismantle the situation that has been created. But let us see the wider political reality. First myth: the government is negotiating. You yourself admit that e-mail Hardouvelis was far less painful than official proposals made by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I would remind you of the statements made by both Mr Voutsi and Mr Metropoulou. So, if you negotiate, why have you only made concessions and charged the Greek people greatly? What did you negotiate? Should the terms get worse? Second truth: you have wasted valuable time because you did not know how to deal with the conscious lies you had made in the election. You played the game of rabbit and turtle with the institutions and you were placed to convince everyone that by going slowly as a turtle, you would have the same results as the myth. But the truth is, you lived your myth. Every month that passed, since you took over the country's governance, it has cost Greek citizens an additional EUR 800 million. Second myth: Greeks can be taxed in addition. As the debate today is on tax issues, you will do well to rethink the increase you prefer in VAT as a solution to fill the budget gap. The portability of the Greeks has been exhausted. Well, the lenders who call it. But you? If you increase VAT rates, as you suggest to the institutions, you actually reduce the available income of all Greeks and especially their purchasing power. At the same time, you are making Greek products less competitive, you are hitting entrepreneurship and you are causing further recession and you are therefore increasing unemployment. It is much better to reduce the state waste or even the non-wage costs of the public, but there you are afraid to put them on your party basis. The worst thing, however, is that with the forthcoming increase in VAT, it is not certain that you will achieve the expected financial results. On the contrary, the same scenario we saw the Papandreou Government, whose steps you are taking vigorously. After all, many of the persons involved in the negotiations are now involved. I would remind you that the New Democracy has reduced VAT rates. Thirdly, your ideological obsession in the waste state does not even allow you to think about limiting waste there. Put a brake on mass recruitment policy, instead of new taxes that affect individuals and the private sector again. Fourth truth: while programming allowed it in January, there is no reason to reduce the EMS. You guys, of course, said you'd ban him. We could cut him down. Finally, in the official proposal made by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to lenders, you ask HISPIA to remain without any reduction. The same applies to the extraordinary solidarity levy that you extended. Fifth truth: dignity is not to ask Chancellor Merkel for an emergency meeting every 15 days to resolve the Greek issue. It is not decency to beg the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, on Sunday, to return the International Monetary Fund to the negotiations. Decently, it's not about running on people's money. It's decency to be able to borrow from the markets on your own. A return plan on the markets you have not announced, nor have you realised that this is the only way to get rid of the memoranda. Sixth truth: there is no social and economic indicator that has not deteriorated compared with January. The economy has come back to recession, unemployment, while it has stabilised, and even gradually declined, it has again risen, the locks in small and medium-sized enterprises have increased, the primary surplus has evaporated, Greece is internationally isolated, the market is narrowing, the liquidity is depleted, and the government seems to be trapped in its narrow partisan trenches. [[PM]] [[LA]] However, because I have strongly criticised some people and may think that I am wrong for you, I would like to make it up to you by stressing some very positive aspects of the Greek Government's proposal to the institutions. So let's go to the seventh truth. The "first time left" government is perhaps proposing the most ambitious privatisation program it has ever announced. I am referring in particular to the privatisation programme 2015-2022 proposed by the SYRIZA Government. I put it in the Minutes too, if you wish, Minister, to add other privatizations. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I would like to congratulate both Mr Tsipras and Mr Lafazanis, Mr Solis and Mr Dritsa, who I am sure they have worked together, since we are talking about the ECJ and bodies under their supervision, but they are also members of the Ministerial Council. Consider that only 2015-2016 expect revenues of EUR 3.2 billion, while up to 2022 exceeds EUR 7,5 billion. Not only here does SYRIZA prove that it goes beyond the traditional ideas of the Left, but it turns out to recognize the supremacy of free economic thought. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I can imagine Mr. Dritsa explaining to the Shipowners' Union how he positively implemented the privatisations of the port of Piraeus and the port of Thessaloniki, or I can also imagine Mr. Lafazaan in BSE explaining the benefits of privatisation in energy. Ladies and gentlemen, lies are over and communal myths fade away. You need to explain first of all to the Greeks what you intend to do. In statements to the press, the Prime Minister spoke of a very heavy burden. We fully agree and we are pleased that Mr Tsipras also takes it as such. But if he can't pick it up, if he thinks he's outrun because other things he's believed and more things he's kept, but more he's got to deal with it, let's take a step back, let's take the initiative for a great national understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. I'll invite Mr. Mitsotakis to Stepma. To be fair, it was for Mr. Kegeroglou and Mr. Papachristopoulos to speak. Their turn is over and I begged Mr. Mitsotakis. I was anxious that I wouldn't have any speakers. Mr. Kegeroglu, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you consent as far as I can see. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u23	The speakers are back, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have to tell you that today's and yesterday's debate has strong elements from a surrealistic painting that could have been painted at the beginning of the last century. Madam Minister, we are debating today in the form of an urgent tax bill of minor importance, which really solves a number of individual problems, all in the right direction, but at the same time, at the very time when an urgent bill is being discussed, Parliament's channel yesterday chooses to relay the debate that is being held in the Committee on Truth under the chairmanship of Mrs Constantopoulou, in which various probable types of shoe and shirts are paralyzed to explain to us how the burden has been created.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u24	What are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u25	There are others with purple ties!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Mitsotakis, you are used to using worldly expressions. They're intellectuals, they're teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u27	It is a fact, Mr President. Do not spread.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u28	You're a jewel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u29	I'm a jeweler. I'm making a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u30	Keep going. Excuse me for interrupting you, but like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u31	One finding of clothing is that I do and it is good at some point to realise that there should also be an apparel code which should be observed in the House. You know, customs and customs have their own value too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u32	Because we pay them, that's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u33	Please do not interrupt the speaker. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u34	So, at what juncture is all this happening, ladies and gentlemen? On 30 June the programme expires, the extension of which you signed, and if somehow no agreement has been reached until then, the country is 'in the air'. The government seems - from its words and the various non papers which leak - to have completely broken down with creditors, that there is no communication channel. The rumors for grexit, for collapse, are urging again to close banks. [[IT]] [[PM]] Your negotiating strategy has failed mercifully. All the assumptions you have made, that you will be able to change the framework of the negotiation, that there is not even one case in the millions that Mrs Merkel does not accept your proposal, that you will be able to make a political agreement, that you will succeed in achieving the great alliance of the peoples of the South, all of this has gone for a walk, and, of course, the real economy is sinking, liquidity is totally depraved, unemployment is rising, and you are the same with the texts you are sending assume that at best the Greek economy will achieve a growth rate of 0.1%. At best, all this is happening! At the same time, we in this House are unreserved, while the country is on the brink of disaster, and we are talking about some small tax arrangements. You know, an important American economist, John Kenneth Galbraith (http: / en.wikipedia.org / wiki / John_Kenneth_Galbraith), said that the work of the politician, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is to choose between the unpleasant and the destructive. And the big question is whether the Prime Minister today, who has arrived in the unprecedented, will choose the country's destruction - and will choose the country's destruction precisely so that it is not unpleasant in his own party - if, in other words, he will choose to be his companion Alexis Tsipras or Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. We often talk about possible disasters and the possible consequences that a Grexit may entail for the Greek economy. So I found in my archive a very interesting article from a distinguished economist who describes two - three proposals what would happen if the country were to return, on the next day of a possible break, to the drachma. So what does this distinguished economist say? It says: "The exit from the euro for a deficit country would send us to the Neolithic era well before - well understand it. In 20 minutes, they'd be dry all ATMs. Tomorrow morning the tails outside the banks would be endless, and after an hour the banks would go down rolls. The economy would collapse. The country would have been submerged in absolute darkness. Poverty would invade 80% of households. The superintendents would once again be won.” Who has written this text?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u35	We've been read before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u36	Well, I'll give it back to you again. The Minister of Finance Yiannis Varoufakis has written it - with a nie - in 2011. The same Minister who is currently moving the various theories of a political break with the European Union, the same Minister who managed by negotiating strategy to put all the ministers in the Eurogroup across. So please, ladies and gentlemen, consider it carefully, because the economist Yiannis Varoufakis is right about the consequences of a possible break. So that's what the Minister said before he became Minister. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] The question today, ladies and gentlemen, is this: is there still room for an agreement? Is there another way? I often hear SYRIZA Members saying to us: "But, well what do you want? Do you in the New Democracy want to sign up to the shameful proposal of lenders, which suggests so many additional measures that should be imposed?' First of all, let's agree on one thing. Why are so many additional measures called for? Why did we go from EUR 1.5 billion to the maximum of measures for Hardouvel email to EUR 5 billion? The answer was given by the Minister of Finance himself. What did Mr. Varoufakis say in a recent interview? He said in February the target of 1.5 % primary surplus was possible. Today he's totally unavoidable. And I wonder, what's he been through these four months? But Mr. Varoufakis. You broke through these four months. Your inertia, your inertia, was the one that led to the enlargement of the budget gap that must be covered today. Because I imagine that we will all agree here that at some point we must live with what we are producing and that production of even small surpluses is a prerequisite for us to be able to reach any agreement with the creditors. What, then, is the solution you choose to bridge this large budget gap? We have seen it in the proposal that has leaked over the last few days. Taxes, taxes again! And I wonder: Is there any other way? [[BS]] AT Could we now agree that yes, can we reach an agreement with our creditors by adopting another policy other than the tax raid you are proposing? The answer is that, of course, there is another way and today we are still discussing reducing state spending that can function as tax equivalents to prevent a new tax raid that you imagine. You know, I spent eighteen months Minister for Administrative Reform. From my experience in this Ministry, I can tell you that today there is still considerable room for cutting expenditure on the Greek state. The question is: do we have the courage to do it? Do you dare, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, clash with your election clientele to correct distortions that still exist today? So let's see, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u37	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u38	We have to be a little specific, so we don't talk abstractly. It is easy, you know, to talk about spending cuts, but at some point we should also be specific. Are there today, ladies and gentlemen, still exceptions to the single wage bill in the Greek State? Answer me, yes or no? Of course there are. Of course, there are still civil servants who enjoy the so-called personal difference, paid at EUR 700, 800, 900 more than other colleagues who have the same qualifications. I ask you: is that fair? Is that fair? And what could we save, would a good-faithed person ask about the abolition of the personal difference? Two hundred million. Is that a little bit? Are we being spared at this juncture? Are there still exceptions from the single wage to the employees of the AEKO and the other privileged enterprises of the State? Of course there are. So why do we not stand honestly to see what we can save not from a reduction in the salaries of civil servants, but from the abolition of exceptions and privileges that still exist today? Madam Minister, listen to this. I think you'll be interested too. There are collective agreements today in the region of government which indirectly lead to an increase in earnings. Is it fair at the same time that you propose to increase taxation for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs at the same time? So there is the possibility of discussing expenditure cuts, and if you do not know them, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA or Minister, come and ask. The question is if you have a real mood to do it. I fear that through your policy, the policy of urban recruitment, the greatness of the state, such a policy would fantasize you very much. For I am listening to 'we are no longer burdening the budget with the recruitments that we are doing at ERT or the re-entry of school cleaners or the rest of them fired'. Perhaps that's true. But what you are not saying, ladies and gentlemen, is that this year's budget involved 12 000 recruitment. If these 12,000 recruits are taken by you reinstated journalists, cleaners and school guards, you will not be able to hire nurses, nurses, taxis, social workers or qualified staff for the audit authorities tomorrow. This is the truth that you hide, that to settle your political ruffles you are denying the ability of the Greek state to hire those who really need it. Consequently, this debate, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, could take place on how they actually find themselves equivalent if the SYRIZA Government were able to find a real solution to the problem and to the enclavism that it has come to. I am appealing for one last and yet today: this common place, ladies and gentlemen, to try to find it together. The country cannot stand a third national division while it is on the brink of bankruptcy. Because if the country goes bankrupt and Mr Varoufakis' forecasts are confirmed, I can assure you that the whole political system will disappear and then there will be no room, ladies and gentlemen, to find responsibility. It wouldn't matter who he is who pushed us to the edge of the cliff. It wouldn't matter anymore. The country will be destroyed, the country will have returned back in the 1950s and become a regional state of the Western Balkans. This is at stake today and this must be avoided at all costs. [[MA]] [[BS]] If we manage to avoid bankruptcy, political time will exist for political responsibilities to be attributed. But if the country fails, Mr President - and I close with this - neither this atrocious and problematic Greek democracy will be able to solve the tragic deadlocks that we have reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Nikolaos Friends, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the'mini' tax bill that we are discussing today includes improvements to an unjust legislation which affects social categories primarily victims of the memorandum, such as young workers with the 'blocks', between unemployment and precarious work, and like farmers. In this sense, the fact that there is consensus on the removal of these injustices and on the improvement of taxation is a good thing. The debate today on the'mini' tax bill, of course, highlights the need to have the normal tax bill in which the SYRIZA Government is committed to include provisions that will bring back or rather for the first time introduce basic tax equality and justice in our country. In the context of this debate, which will take place on time, there will also be a debate on the ENPIA which we hear a lot about, with the commitment that there will gradually be a abolition of this tax that breaks down the Greek family and the Greek property. Gradually, on time, since this year with the change of objective values. However, the most important thing to see the big picture is that we are now in the final phase of a tough, unrelenting negotiation on the future of the country, which has been promised by the five-year implementation of the memorandums. I am not saying these things, a person who was a representative of Greece in the International Monetary Fund, Mr Panagiotis Romeliotis, who, yesterday in the House, spoke to the Committee on the Discrimination of Truth about the Public Debt, said that - he is a witness, I repeat - at the IMF meeting in 2010 where the Greek problem was discussed, there was a proposal for a "haircut" of the Greek debt - that has been published by Mr Romeliotis - but that was rejected by Germany and France because they wanted to rescue their banks that were then exposed to the Greek public debt and then unload this debt to the Greek banks, as shown by the evidence presented to the Greek Parliament after the question of the then Members of the New Democracy and the President of the Republic, Mr. You helped the Memorandum Governments, starting with the Papandreou Government, to get rid of the Franco-German banks and to charge the Greek banks and the insurance funds then the public debt. It's just a matter of that. The second is that in this plan - I do not want to say descriptions, but we all understand that it falls under criminal law - government officials, the Prime Minister of Greece, and also the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Provoulou. And not only this: Greece was an animal than it appeared about the IMF invasion into Europe. All of this needs to be verified, accounted for and accounted for. Because we still pay and it's hard to fight to get out of this memorial of memorials. Because the memorandum is not something that can, with one word, be abolished. (PS) [[MA]] It is a regime which has dismantled democratic and labour rights in our country, which has imposed internal devaluation on full wage devaluation, has caused pain, 27% of unemployment. It is a mechanism for controlling the Greek economy by foreign interests, by lenders. It is the conversion of our country into a debt colony, and all this must be abolished, we must change it. It is a constant, gradual struggle in which the Greek Government is now negotiating. So we don't say words. We are trying to take a step - step by step, this weaving, the status of the memorandum. It is true that in this struggle we do not have the support of all within Greece, as no one would have expected, because some of them won from the memorandum. Not everyone loses the same, and in any case not everyone loses. Some of them win. They are the ones who are caught by one - one being taxed, even in conditions of terrible corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u41	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u42	I read yesterday 11 billion is a case of inappropriate tax evasion by a businessman, who was considered a friend of the previous Prime Minister, not ours, and there are other cases of this. It is one thing - one way or another without making a fuss, but it hurts that we are losing one - one case of inexorable tax evasion and great corruption in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u43	Is there names, Mr. Friend?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u44	Names will come to justice, not to parliament. Don't worry, it'll all happen. We're not afraid. Everything will be done by the legal process, without creating impressions and bubbles to anyone. Second matter now. They tell us that the measures we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u45	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u46	Why so concerned about a big-time fugitive? I don't understand. Because you can't protect him anymore? It is argued that the measures proposed by the Greek Government and which will be accepted are measures which are worse than Mr Hardouvelis's infamous mail. It's not true, for two reasons. Firstly, Mr Hardouvelis's email is not an agreement, it is the election card of the New Democracy, which is not acceptable to the lenders. Secondly, the email of my constituent Mr Hardouvelis is a small subset of the commitments that the Samara and Venizelos Government have agreed and accepted under the medium-term programme and which the Samara - Venizelos had to implement under the fifth and sixth evaluations that was now to be carried out. So this cardouveli mail with painful measures is a small sample of the commitments made by the previous government. The most important thing to stress is that our proposal for the agreement involves, firstly, the rapid de-escalation of the primary surpluses, so that within three years the Greek economy and even more so the socially weak ones will save EUR 14.2 billion. This means that the mechanism of austerity is being broken. Austerity doesn't go easy, the mechanism breaks, it gets less tough. The most important thing is that we can talk about a write-down and debt restructuring agreement and that the money that would go to creditors rather than to the Greek economy does not exist, does not go to creditors, so there is a question on the subject of public debt. It is true that, without regulating the debt, the memorandum is not going to be abolished and we are not going to get out of austerity, because its mechanism reproduces austerity, its mechanism reproduces the most serious social injustices in our country. I would remind you of Mr Giannitsi's study, which said that during the memorial period the poor, the middle and the people paid 336% more taxes than only 9% of the rich. [[XS]] [[PS]] Look, 9% more paid taxes for the five-year memorandum and 336% for the poorest! This is Mr. Yannissi's study. So the debate today is how any measure will also include the question of debt, the agreement with steps and the question of the financing of the Greek economy for a development start and also any financial measures that decide to have within them the provision or current provision of social redistribution. In fact, VAT is a measure which has a social level at the expense of the weak, but the distribution of VAT, the tiles, the products that will be, are important for the people's income. I heard the President of the Potamio, Mr Theocharis, yesterday saying that we only have two scales in VAT. So what? What two? You don't mean 6.5% and 13%? 23% is there. So, what do you want? There's no 6.5% left? So the drugs, the food, everything going up? So here is a question of social justice and redistribution in relation to VAT. Also, taxes. We are accused of taxing entrepreneurship, that is to say, profits of more than 1 million of an enterprise. Do not there be an increase in taxation when people's income is freely overtaxed? Is this at the expense of entrepreneurship or is this a measure, even by contrast, in favour of the people's interests? Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard the representative, the President of the European Central Bank, Mr Draghi, saying that now is the time for political solutions to the Greek problem and not the bankers, as he said. We've been yelling for so long. We've been calling it, and we've been doing it for so long. In and out of the Eurozone we create a framework so that the Greek problem is a global problem. Talked at G7 along with the Ukrainian, it was discussed at meetings in the White House, at extraordinary meetings, and discussed in all European capitals, and debated tomorrow. Tomorrow the Prime Minister goes back to Moscow to participate in an international economic forum. It has been discussed in this regard with the initiatives of multilateral foreign diplomacy, which we as a eurozone country have undertaken towards all major economic powers, with the oil pipeline, with our participation, have called on us to the Bank of BRICS, with a large number of issues, which were unbaptised, and made giz to tell the other Memorandum powers. I'll be done. We want there to be reforms in our country. But what reforms? We are being proposed by creditors to reduce wages and pensions, and they consider this to be reform. Do you accept that? They suggest that we have VAT scales that neutralize people's incomes. Do you accept that? They suggest that there should be a medium-term working population, that is to say, without self-evident safeguarding labour rights with collective bargaining, without the minimum wage. Do you accept that? It is clear that we want the reforms in favour of the poorest, in favour of the socially weak, because the economy as a whole will go ahead. Development which does not take into account the interest of many who are socially weak, cannot exist and if there is a development that will have the sperm of a social catastrophe. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in this negotiation, the political negotiation is still in place, not only through the polls that we see broad support for the Greek Government, in its efforts, but also through the daily discussions, through the mobilisations, such as the one I read on the Internet that it is organised tomorrow in the Constitution. Everywhere there is an agony, we understand it. There is an anguish to have an agreement beneficial to Greek interests because it will also be beneficial to Europe. Look around you, ladies and gentlemen, where this small country, our Greece, is. [[OR]] [[XS]] It is down - down in Europe, at the edge of Europe. If they drive it out of there, as you say, Europe will be amputated and amputated in an area around - around every day, a war breaks out, where around every day we have boats with beneath refugees who want to enter the'paradise' - in introductory terms - of European reality. Europe needs Greece and Greece needs Europe, but in a relationship of parity. The geopolitical element is too strong for us and for them to decide what our future will be, a future of prosperity, of democracy, of development within Europe and not a future of the European South as a debt colony. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA did not come to leave, he came to stay with the will of the Greek people and we will not do you the favor of cooperating in left parentheses scenarios. Besides, there is no alternative. Despite everything you've been destroying for so many months, you're not trusted by the Greek people. If you want consensus, of course we offer it. We offer it to the national and social consensus with a sign, a sign of social, a sign of democracy, we offer it to have a new course for the country, a new starting point for growth, work and democracy. We offer it as a political force, as a government. After all, we have also opened the door to Maximos, and we have had political meetings. All the other things, the 'duty of consensus', without a clear political direction, are from the evil and television channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Philly. Mrs Lyberakis, you have asked for the floor. After you, I will give the floor to Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Papachristopoulos, so that it does not appear that I punish them, because at the time they were given, they were only gone for one minute. In this sense and with the consent of Mr Matthaopoulos, whom I see consent, as well as Mr Nikolaopoulos, Mrs Lyberakis, you have the floor. Then we will exhaust the two, three Members of Parliament left to move on to the parliamentary representatives, with their consent, so that it does not seem to me to be wrong for you too. Mrs. Professor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us and all of us in the last few months have seen some of the same work. All of us who are passengers on the ship "Greece" are seeing an iceberg in front of us grow because it is approaching. Reactions to the cockpit all this time were successively the following. First reaction: In these seas there are no icebergs. Second reaction: There are icebergs, but because we see them, we won't fall on them. Third reaction: There's iceberg in the truth, but don't worry, because the icebreakers of our friends will tear it apart. Fourth reaction: There is iceberg, it seems to be close, but in fact the distance that separates us from it is greater than the one we think as we look at it from here. Thursday and more recent reaction: The iceberg will back off on its own, because he knows that if we hit it, it will be dissolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u49	Like the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u50	In the last few hours, therefore, and according to the official briefing we have from the cockpit, the conflict is almost inevitable. There's one last chance, if we all coordinate, turn the steering wheel and make all the engines work backwards at the same time. That, however, must be done for each and every one of us, crew members and passengers, to know exactly what we are doing and as long as the captain doesn't ask and coordinate there is a difficulty in ensuring the necessary determination. The worst, ladies and gentlemen, is that as long as we wait, as long as we do not do anything, the possibility of the obscene, that is, what we were all exorcising until now, to the conflict is growing. [[GA]] [[OR]] That's why the impact might be, we hope the people in the cockpit know what to do next. Because we can strike and lose the ship and the passengers will be lost. We could impact and save the ship and save the passengers. However, the salvage of passengers, I think, must be the main concern. I want to remind you of an unpleasant aspect of history. When the Titanic began his virgin journey in 1911, the inspired belief in the world was that this marvelous ship could not sink. It's not sinking. This belief, when confronted with the iceberg, led to the following three negative, parallel problems: The first was that, because no one thought it could sink, eventually the ship sinked much faster, because no one did anything to stop it. The second is that they were not called and did not have time to come boats and boats to help. And the third is that there were neither enough boats nor enough lifesaving to save the world, and let the band play until the last minute. I think of these melancholy thoughts, because we on the Potami, who are a responsible force, want to know that right now in the drawers on our own ship's cockpit, "Ellas", there are plans for how we deal with impact times. I don't want to bring any closer right now. The view of the River, as you know, is that it is a misunderstanding in favour of an agreement, but because the possibility of non-agreement seems more visible and more likely than ever, I would like us to know that in front of us both the Government and the entire political system will have to face a huge change of game, with too many problems, many difficulties, where there is a very important project. Because I am very afraid that the humanitarian crisis - we will see in this case - is the one following such a major impact. And then in this humanitarian crisis, some must have made sure that there are no drugs missing, that there are no basic species missing, that the last of them do not sink completely into the social and economic hierarchy, who in the end have the least responsibility for all this. If we are confronted, it will not be important to look for who is to blame or to identify who has the best idea, but it has not been implemented, nor to make impressive lions with a view to political, electoral and party reclassifications. We're only going to need compassion and harmony. Because the failure we will have to manage will - let me say it - be the equivalent of a minor catastrophe. This is also a part of the necessity for political leaders to meet, not only to be informed about the moment, but above all - and let them not announce - to share roles, what each one will do at the difficult time. Because, you know, in these very difficult times, the first twenty-four hours count too much and often judge the result, not only of the first weeks, but of the first months and perhaps of the first few years. It must be said that in this case homogeneity is the only hope that we can have both open information and understanding the only real weapon. We must all first and foremost - first of all - have a sense of responsibility and the seriousness of getting rid of our circumstances and responsibilities, no matter what they are or what we think they are ours. I would like to say a few words about the bill proposed by Mrs Valavani. I would like to say that the river supports the provisions of this bill. [[SM]] [[GA]] And it supports them, not because we like unilateral actions, nor do we generally like taxpayers' money to show governments and sometimes social coexistence and social sensitivity. The draft law by Mrs Valvain is correct because they implement the principle that they cannot tax income that they do not exist in specific and individual cases. This world says it to the well-spoken 'no' if a owl than a owl'. The technocrats, among us, recognize that at whatever rate you multiply zero, the result will always be zero and not as much as we lack or as the curator judges. Now, why am I saying 'as much as we lack'? Unfortunately, in our country, the series of governments are dealing with the budgetary issues in the sense of 'what we are missing'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u51	In the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u52	In the past, with memorial, memorial and anti-monetary governments to date, we have a sense of the intentions we see in the programmes and in the exchanges of views with the institutions that taxes are seen as a safe pillow, which people have to treat as a patriotic duty and, ultimately, the production of the wealth we are called upon to tax comes into second degree. I would like to say that whenever, in the case of temporary contributions and in previous tax incursions, a government attempts to tax income which has not been produced, then in reality the overall tax return is reduced because further economic transactions are being hampered, a sense of injustice is being established for the taxpayer, that is to say, a procedure is under way that ends up being the psychological support for tax evasion. He justifies it, legitimizes it and makes it the only solution. Mostly, however, it complicates the tax system and makes it so complex, complex and opaque, that the only way to know that you are moving properly is to buy services of specialized tax technicians. So those who can buy expensive counsellors, lawyers and others on these issues are making it clear. The well-being, the ignorant and those who cannot buy such services end up paying a much greater share, because the money will be raised, because that is what we lack, and if the tax base was lower, let the tax base be careful. I would like to say, however, on the basis of these correct changes which the Minister is introducing today, that it is an overtime need to discuss the whole of our tax system, because the progressiveity of our tax system and its effectiveness is not judged by the progressiveity of each of the measures or provisions or taxes, but by the performance of the system as a whole. And like our tax system, it doesn't add up to the collector and it manages to put a lot of trillion into the production of wealth, which is exactly what will get us out of this situation. Do not think that one can easily do social policy with tools of other policies. However, it may have much simpler tax rates, be it income tax or VAT - one! - and go back to the teams he judges to be affected, because they're paying too much. It is a terrible benefit to collectivity, a terrible benefit to tax collection speed and a terriblely effective targeting return to those who need to, because usually every provision and every exception creates a situation where, along with dry, green and benefit from people and groups as if they were not due. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. We will now move on to the remaining Members. I will apply, Mr Papachristopoulos, a law primitive, ancient: "Prior in tempore, potior in iure" we told students. So he is stronger legally he is the one who first gave birth to his right. [[AR]] [[SM]] So Mr. Kegeroglu will be here now. I'm taking it to the beginning of the longer waiting time. It is the strongest law than the primitive society that created citizens' rights and said that it is the strongest right to be born before: 'Prior in tempore, Potior in jure'. Mr. Papachristopoulos is next, followed by Mr. Kartsoulis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u54	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the Finance Ministry's bill, there is a wider debate, precisely because of the circumstances and the issues that the country has been seeking, negotiating or not negotiating these hours. I have to say that by listening to Mr Fleece, I have received a lot of answers on why we have come back from what we wanted in December, for why today the country will pay more marble, why more taxes will be imposed, regardless of the effort that has been made to say that taxes are fair. When a billion goes to five billion, what justice can there be? I have to say that Mr. Philis has made an admirable effort for five minutes to hide the six-year period 2004-2009 in a mastery way - I am taking his hat off - and he has even expounded the high priest of the client state, the one who dismantled the public. He praised him in a wonderful way and, of course, spoke of 'jiz'. Previously, he did not say about Mr. Yannitsi, too, that he "had done a worthwhile study" and so forth. Oh, no! Now did you remember Mr. Yannitsi? In 2002, when you found him, as an insurance mortal, he wasn't a good scientist? "Jij" says. Mr. Philly, "jiz" 12,000 tax-free? Why didn't you say anything? For our 12,000 tax-free, you said you'd put it under negotiation? Have you told the Greek people that it will be a matter of negotiation, 'if they leave us'? Did you tell the Greek people that it is 'if they leave us'? Have you told the Greek people that the minimum wage will be voted on, 'if they leave us'? Did you say that? You said you'd do a tax reduction. But you hadn't said that if they imposed us, we'd increase. 'Giz', therefore, all matters relating to the political deception of the Greek people. Of course, it's admirable and I recognize your success, I take you out the hat I'm not wearing, because in communication policy you're inappropriate. Full success and prevalence! Yes, I do. You have created a mixture of grey and black propaganda with the main focus of terrorizing wage earners and retired people and on this basic axis you are moving today. What did you say from day one? "The bad guys before planned to cut your pensions and wages off. We're here, the good guys, and we're stopping it. Evil Europeans, i.e. the Commission, seeks to reduce pensions and salaries. We good ones resist and do not do it." They're giving you a denial yesterday at noon. You're making the chickens, Mr. Philly. Mr. Holland's disdaining you from a foreign, third country, not Germany, and you're making the chicken the big, the pussy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u56	the word ‘kotas’ is deleted; Leave it now. You guys are...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u57	The duck better. Yeah, you're right. We say in politics the duck, that is, in ancient times, 'who is the island'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u58	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u59	So Mr. Friend and his Party have been poured out. So don't come here telling us things that are clearly lies. Okay, the ones outside, in a world that doesn't want to admit you cheated him so raw and fell into your trap, they're still working. [[CB]] [[2AR]] We don't need them. After all, we have stated that we understand your position and I have publicly said that we should not exercise these days psychological pressure on the people who will be called upon to make difficult decisions, and I mean that. Because you'll be called to make tough decisions in the next few hours. That's very important and you shouldn't have the psychological pressure. But do not rely on lies, do not impersonate lies, at least to your companions, in order to extract consensus. With the truth, the pure truth, you can go ahead, make decisions and certainly be beneficial to the place. You cannot say that you do not reduce wages and pensions and you do not charge the pensioner when Mr Metropolis, who is not questioned by you as a scientist, has measured that 12% is the increase in the cost of life from VAT only and the burden on every employee and every pensioner. Since when did VAT become a fair term and increase it? Since when did the indirect VAT become a fair term and increase it? If these measures had been brought - what you are proposing, not what the outsiders are asking for - would anyone have left on their seat? On the tables, you'd be on your feet and jump! And you have the nerve now and you blame us! Four months of the wrong negotiating tactic! You authorised the figurine and brought an agreement on February 20th, extension of a memorandum without Parliament's approval four months! Without Parliament's approval and no funding! That's criminal, Mr. Philly! Not to argue with me for five minutes, because Papandreou has criminality! But that's what my friend Karchimakis thinks about. You have no purpose but to close Papandreou in jail! That's your purpose!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u60	Romeliot?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u61	But you will not, and you will not, for the truth will shine before. Hide the reports of the International Monetary Fund, Mr Friend, before 2009, is a reality. You didn't say a word. Gisse, this one too! I'm coming to the bill. The bill with four - five interventions that it does restores things and comes to implement the Memorandum of Understanding on Taxation is a continuation of the Memorandum of Tax Law, restoring minor injustices. What does the bill prove? Two things: that your will is to apply an injustice to the whole tax bill, as you described it, by removing little injustices with these interventions, and secondly that there can be interventions in the tax system. The debate, the existence, the vote of the bill shows that there can be interventions in the tax system. I say this because Mrs Valverde, in reply to a proposal we made, in an intervention question, said 'But I cannot interfere with the tax'. But we are voting, especially after the withdrawal - I think - of an article which deals with company-paying arrangements. And I'm saying that for the farmers' tax. They're going to get blackouts with the clearing agents you're going to send them in the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u62	Who voted for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u63	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u64	We have tabled a proposal to you which says that 20% of the revenues allegedly incurred without documentary recognition as the first year of the implementation of revenue and expenditure, for many reasons, because farmers and were not aware of what they had to collect to prove their expenses and were not able to do so because of the large bureaucratic procedures they need to justify the cuts for foreigners who employ and for many other reasons. This 20% is necessary. If you do not, they will be charged a great deal, which is not justified. "But you did," says a colleague. But everything else has happened. But that is what I see righting with five articles of five individual injustices. But the fat thing about the rural world, why don't you fix it? Instead, for the first time, Mrs Valavani, zero. [[PE]] [[CB]] Don't complain about it. For the first time in practice, subsidies are taxed in our country. For the first time they are taxed and taxed, because next year it will be from zero euros. In conclusion, Mr President, thanking you for the time you have given me, I would like to say that we are in favour of reaching an agreement, but not whoever. Not who and who! If it has no sustainable solution, based on a development axis for the restarting of the economy, we cannot vote on individual articles with increased taxes and charges for the world. The world has paid for what it has paid, and we have achieved the 36 billion deficits, which you hide, that surpluses have been made, and today we have a dispute over the amount of the surplus, whether it is 1% or 2%. Did you forget the 36 billion and 15.5% deficit in 2009, in 2010? You want it to be 14%? Be 14%. But 36 billion, all of this, has been eliminated. Today, then, they will not pay the'marble' again. We relied on the people. Yes, we relied on the people and responded. Today you want to charge him with all the failures of your negotiating tactics. Hey, that can't be! That is why, yes to an agreement that will give a solution, with a view to sustainable development. Not to impose new taxes and measures that the ordinary world will pay!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Friend has asked for the floor. Mr. Philly, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I leave the anti-detectorals, and I confine myself to essentials. Firstly, what Mr Roumeliotis said yesterday in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which has been informed by all the Greek people since their direct transmission, is whether or not a political problem, which also has criminal implications? I did not hear an answer from Mr Kegeroglu, who was at that time in the ruling party, which was called PASOK with Mr Papandreou. There's the trick that it was the previous ones. They were. So what? What does that mean? We're going to set off responsibility? All responsibilities down. That is why the people have also sent the previous and you - you are the truth in a more resounding way - to the "Tartar", have condemned you politically and you are a past to the Greek people. So with the netting, you won't get away with it. He needs courage, honesty and relocation. I was hoping that the election of Mrs Gennamas - and I hope she will still - will enable you to return. Secondly, you referred to Mr. Yannissi, whom I honor, because I had him a professor at the university and I have had good memories since that time. The law of Mr. Giannitsis on insurance, the bill that met the reaction and the social base of PASOK, as you remember, and GSEU and IAKE at the time, the reluctant reaction at the time of the Greek people, may have had some elements of rationalisation, but it had a profoundly class-to-class negative element. He was breaking down the minimum pension. Of the 380 euros that were then, she was taken to 280 to 300 euros. Did you take that thing? Your government was forced to retreat, Mr. Kegeroglu, not ours, in front of the popular outcry for this class measure contained in Mr. Yannissi's bill. Who are you accusing today, then, and why are you defending a bill, which your government, the Shiite Government, had to get back in front of the popular outcry? Last item. You referred to the government's communication success. We channels have not financed, nor have we illegally allowed them to operate, as you know, but we have crashed and are being conflicted on the basis of legality. So there is no communication success. There is, however, popular support, which this popular support is not due to television support, to the complexity, because this government, in great difficulties, in unscrupulous difficulties, can give a boost to society and the economy towards development and democracy, that we are a new beginning. We're the new one. In the new hopes, the world gives potential, gives time to move forward and is not ready - it will never be ready - to retreat or retreat to the old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Is there anything answerable, Mr. Kegeroglu? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u68	No, I don't have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u69	You caused interest in an answer, I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u70	The only need for Mr. Friends to apologise has shown who is really right. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u71	Mr Papachristopoulos will now take the floor, then Mr Kartsoulis will come back to the parliamentary representatives and we will be done. We have also taken into account the presentation of Mr Balaura and Mrs Cassimatis. We'll be done with you and you'll have a great deal of time. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u72	I would like to believe that I am not only complaining of my own, but of a large part of young MEPs who are now in this Chamber four - five months. Many of us were used to seeing hard controversy in this House, but with quality. I could refer to many names, such as the late man of Michael Papayannakis, the Kanellelopoulou of the New Democracy, many, many. And really now that the country is living not critical, but historical moments for which some are responsible, I don't think rage and indignation is the most good counsellor to be blamed. I welcome the election of Mrs Gennimatas at the head of PASOK, a political continental tone, which I really believe will give a new tone to this party that has its history. This is a small parentheses, and I think it is not just about me, it is about too many. I want the bill, Minister, to say that no one is talking about it in the right direction, but I take the opportunity to tell you that you are carrying the big issue of tax evasion on your backs. Many say that the greatest wound in Greek society is tax evasion. The Giannitzis report, to which Mr Philis referred, is a tangible example of the fact that, every time tax was touched by a possible taxpayer, the decision stopped there and no names were needed. It's not one, it's hundreds of examples that I.R.'s stopped there because the face was important. On this occasion, I would like to say to you, Minister, that you have hired around the four hundred new auditors, whom you have even entrusted with the hard task of checking lists, offshore, of accounts that have left and which you have at EUR 719 a month. Look at this because all these people are graduates, qualified and recruited via ASP. I asked a question, not to you - he was the Deputy Minister - and I take the opportunity to say that if we really believe that the tax evasion mechanisms are lacking, give these people a stimulus - EUR 400 ask you - and I close the parenthesis that has to do with today's subject. I would like, however, if I may - because we do not have the opportunity to speak very often - to ask the House to look into yesterday's electronic version of Spiegel magazine that you all know about. In this publication, there is not much or much of an article concerning Mr Siomple where Greece is compared with the then eastern Germany. Shoeble was the protagonist of the union under Helmut Cole and he wonders what the magazine has changed and Mr Shoeble today, while the whole of Europe then helps the miserable Eastern Germany, has not been punishing but exterminated for our country. Please, look at it. You will find a lot of important evidence of the way Spiegel faces the conflict between Mrs Merkel and Mr. Shoeble. However, I would like to refer to something else. Yesterday he presented a journalist who had nothing to do with SYRIZA nor with the Independent Greeks, Michael Ignatiu who has been working in Mega and works in the United States, a book. Please, I believe that this book that actually speaks with evidence, only with documentary evidence, would only be worth reading in this Chamber. It is a tangible answer to what economic suffocation will mean, what consequences did the Memorandum that we entered in 2010? [[FT]] [[RG]] And I'm saying again, no fanatical syrrhawk or an irresponsible or a strain or a turfman. Says a reporter who's only close friends is not to us. I would also like to say this. I listened very carefully to Mr Mitsotakis, in my opinion, very serious policy before. It is about, say, a lot of issues. I would really like this sensitivity, which in many is very right, to see it in specific things. I would like to remind you that they have left the country and are away today at around 300 billion. Find an economist who questions this number. And I'm talking about the illegal things that have gone away, what George Sourlas is looking for, the 23 billion or more, and how they left. It would really be worth noting to see what role the present situation has played in this country's present state of affairs, in Switzerland, in Catalina and in the rest of the world. I would like to say that there is one, in my opinion, very superficial argument. I monotonously hear every day the four months that SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks rule to render all the evils of the country. So much I hear it that I feel the need to apologize now if I did so, and I don't understand it in four months, because that's what this is all about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Will you give me a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u73	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u74	I would like to remind you that the 120 % of GDP that has been made did not take place within four months. I still want to remind you of incredible things like off-shore, SIEMENS, overpricing, lists that we took a walk, etc. I also heard Mr Kegeroglu very aggressively, his right. I believe they have created a grim atmosphere that some here want to ignore. However, I have to admit that there are also sensible voices. You've got to stand up, you have to, because that's how democracy works, but be careful, by the way, after you make your self-criticism. Some never did, they never even asked for an apology. I think this is a unique opportunity now that the country is at critical times, that there should be sobering - and I say this - and those who really love the country must work in this direction. Heads without support, without facts, I believe that they are currently harming the country. Finally, I want to say something about the deal, which I want to believe will be done. To make a credible commitment to debt regulation, a debt that no one, but on the planet, even the bad IMF, has said that it is not sustainable. Development and lifting of the country will not exist. I therefore believe that it is not without this agreement that there is a credible commitment that this debt is regulated so that it will be more than 7-8 billion a year for social policy and development. I hope so, and I hope so, because the dangers must once be brought to an end in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr Panagiotis Kartsoulis will then be given the floor from Potami. Mr. Mathaiopoulos, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mr. Nicosopoulos, Mr. Gregorakos, will be followed and we will be closing with the MPs, Mrs. Kasimatis, Mr. Balaura. We'll give the speakers a second or a third minute. They will be asked if they want to speak - the four have spoken - and we will close. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after being toured in the exhibition of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" Hall and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six members of the Friendship Club of the Municipality of Athens, the Square of America. You must love Athens very much, as we all have to worship Athens. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I would like to inform you that Mr Christos Mandas of SYRIZA asks for a leave from Wednesday, June 17th to June 25th, as he will be absent abroad on a party mission. Does this House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u76	The House approved the requested permission. Here, Mr. Cartassouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is still unjustly stalked by the previous governments, and the reason I make this statement is that it changes the way in which taxation is to be determined, and the procedure for submitting tax declarations is already under way. In this case there is no justification, because the issues under the bill were or should have been before the government for some time. However, the leadership of the Ministry of Finance has not been involved in correcting any errors in time, and because of its uncertainty and negligence today we are still in a bill on urgency. However, I have the feeling, ladies and gentlemen, that the government's failure to organise its work properly and in good time and to propose legislative solutions for problems, which are either known or should have been known after five months of governance, is seen in all legislative work and is a permanent element of its legislative production. In a total of eleven drafts that the Government has so far voted for in Parliament, the two of which were Act of Legislative Content, the four were introduced in accordance with the urgency or urgency procedure and the only remaining five were discussed in accordance with the normal procedure. In other words, over half, 55% of the legislation came to the House, I would say, by way ofparliamentary procedures, that is without the ordinary parliamentary procedure. This draft law, therefore, is another indication of curiosity, even if some of the things it regulates relate to amounts which are also regulated for fair reasons. However, this should not be the central concern of the leadership of the Ministry of Finance. At the moment, its first concern should be the statements, the smooth functioning of the system and the improvement of public revenue flows. Already there are estimates of a shortfall in revenue of only 1 billion for the month of May, which are added to a loss of revenue of 1 billion in the first quarter of 2015. At the same time, the process of declarations is going too late, as only 10% of them have been tabled and the government repeats what we have known from previous governments. In other words, 'what else can we do, let us wait, will all reach the last day', which we hear again and again about planning and ways of speeding up the process, which is absolutely essential. It is clear to us that the government has not realised that a decisive factor in achieving economic growth, which must not only be dynamic, but rather sufficiently balanced and pluralistic in order to become sustainable in the long term and to lead to prosperity, is the quality of the institutions of governance and the efficiency of the administration. The present government is undermining any effort to make efficiency, surpriseing citizens, administration and businesses with urgent bills. For this reason, let us look at a little more carefully in the draft legislation under discussion, which I repeat is positive. The main objective of the bill is to correct a number of distortions created by applying high presumptions to taxpayers with minimum interest income and to remove other injustices. It is right, for example, to regulate paragraph 2 of Article 1 - although it should be merged with those set out in paragraph 4 of that Article - to tax interest and other income as income and as property, because, based on existing legislation, taxpayers who had some euros interest income and objective living costs of some thousands of euros are faced with their tax base, imputable income and a factor of 26%. Thus, they are required to pay high income tax for real income of some euros only on interest. [[PM]] [[LA]] What I want to do, beyond the correctness of regulation and the lifting of this injustice, is a point which is usually beyond our attention and which is about reducing administrative burdens. In other words, I think it is important that, with this regulation, farmers no longer need to calculate the objective values of their land on the basis of complex forms called 'objective land values' and we consider this to be particularly important. It is usually something that escapes us when we legislate. When the administrative burden is reduced, as in this case, we should bear in mind in any other regulation that it is also reduced, which is not the case when we are legislating on the table and bringing draft legislation in the form of urgency which is supposedly awkward. So what we want to point out on the basis of this bill is that we should take care in the process of planning the legislative work so that we do not just have a few tax-sparkling measures in order to raise revenues sustainablely, which is a regular practice in tax bills. Also, there are not enough tax reliefs to boost growth and, of course, there are not enough redundancies in other areas to make the public operational, as unprojected re-uptakes are not enough, nor makes Greece more attractive as a place of investment the impairment of labour rights, and it also does not ensure social welfare unplanned distribution of benefits. It is characteristic of the curiosity with which we legislate that the Code of Income Tax, as it stands, was passed in July 2013, within 12 months of its vote, had amended 41 of its 72 articles. What programming are we talking about in such cases? The code needs to be codified, if I can use this expression, so that one can monitor the changes that are taking place within one government. Other countries, however, which respect the citizens and businesses involved in them, have devised ways of removing the insecurity caused by the legislative texts. Just give you one example. It would be a good job if the present government could also adopt such measures. In the European Union, the Netherlands or Britain, for example, they are following the principle of common dates of accession, of legislation for businesses. This is a term attributed to the English 'common comment dates'. In Great Britain, for example, where this rule applies, they estimate that it was only possible for the British economy to apply this rule for a year from an administrative burden of EUR 868 million, only by applying this principle as simple as this: Every legislative regulation that concerns businesses, whenever it has been adopted by the British Parliament, will enter into force twice a year, on 6 April and on 1 October - perfect and dash - so that businesses are not surprised. Such measures, which are simply a matter of concern, should also be taken in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that you should be concerned about your failure to manage the country effectively and efficiently. You should be concerned about the fact that you are legislating on your own original interpretations of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the House and the rulings of the Supreme Courts. Even if one accepts your good intentions and sincere interest in solving many social problems, your inability to transform these intentions into regulatory decisions and public policies make them chained. We invite you to accept our criticism and quickly change how to rule. Times are short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Kartsouli. Mr Artemis Matthaopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. You have rightly done so, when you have also decided to give the floor to simple speakers to put a draft tax bill at the moment, because the official position of the party to which they belong has been heard and also because some of them have been exposed when they have attempted to defend a person who has a very high share in the subject of Greece's membership of the Memorandum. Of course I am referring to Mr Papandreou, whom some people still consider to be an innocent man who is wrongly accused of what is being accused of. I would also like to make an appeal to the ruling party who took part in this controversy with the PASOK, saying that it should be very careful every time it invokes the fresh people's mandate and the outcome of the elections of 25 January. [[IT]] [[PM]] Because, in 36% received by SYRIZA, it was received by a programme that was very different from that implemented by post-elections. Because, the result of the elections I repeat from this one, the Step was clearly an anti-monetary character. And therefore, like PASOK, from forty percent today ended up in 4.5%, so SYRIZA, if it changes policy, will have the same degressive course. The Golden Dawn, therefore, became a third political force in the country in two successive elections. And we have said that we are the country's only, genuine, firm antimony force. It is therefore in this capacity that we are clear about this bill that we support it, because we believe that we are going to have to oppose the continuation of the bloody measures and the memorandum, but we must support those measures that introduce any government that relieves to a small or large extent some of the Greek citizens. So that serves this bill. Any ideological differences do not prevent us from admitting the truth. But this does not mean that we do not have any reservations, which have been expressed with our rapporteur, but I will repeat some of them as a parliamentary representative. So I said the bill corrects injustices. There are positive elements in this, and I am concise about some of the areas that this tax bill is called upon to regulate, if it is about agricultural production, what we consider to be alpha and omega to relaunch the Greek economy, which is the primary sector, and business as regards businesses, but also various individuals in relation to the tax framework and the tax system. As far as the first case is concerned for farmers is concerned, we consider it self-evident to grant a tax exemption of 11% to 33% for the use of or free of charge of agricultural land. I will not go into technical issues, I will simply take one comment he made - if I am not mistaken - the representative of the New Democracy, who said that this measure is self-evident. It's self-evident, but for five years of governance ruled by his party with PASOK, he didn't do the self-evident thing, but he can today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u80	I didn't say that. It's neutral. There is no tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u81	If I'm wrong with you, I can go back to the Minutes. That's what I wrote, that's what I held back. And indeed it is a self-evident measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u82	You've got the wrong thing to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u83	My criticism is not about the New Democracy. It's about the bill in general. It concerns the general functioning of the primary production sector. And I say again, no single measure, no matter how positive it is, can have a positive effect if the general economic, fiscal, business framework continues to operate under a memorandum regime. And here is the first great reservation, which we repeat. Because this bill regulates too many such issues, but it comes in a time before the next one, as you say, negotiations. For us, it is a great sale of Greek interests in the living room of Brussels. With regard to the positions of our party on the agricultural economy, by cheating on all those who say that Golden Dawn is a party that does not have positions and does not have an opinion on such burning issues, I am presenting for the record an excerpt of our programme to deal with the agricultural sector, namely agriculture, livestock and fisheries. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Artemis Matthaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] As far as business and taxation are concerned, I have heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, who spoke about the conflict and the break with the great interests, that the next regular tax draft will achieve the tax equality among all Greeks. I believe that the government should commit itself to this, but things show that this government is moving in a completely different direction. Because if you want to talk about tax equality, ladies and gentlemen, you will definitely have to settle unfinished matters like those of the famous Lagard list, where more than two thousand names of taxpayers do not have the same criminal treatment. And in order not to advance by saying that all those involved on that list have criminal responsibilities, do it self-evident. Set up a committee to investigate whether and how many of them have participated in what you call a gangrene in tax crime. So when this government proves by deeds and not by words that it wants to conflict with the great interests, then we will have to discuss these important issues in a second time. [[BS]] [[AT]] However, let us come to the political aspect, which concerns the issues you yourself raised in relation to the forthcoming negotiations on the honorable, as you call it, but also the general legislative work of the government in these five months that is in power together with the Independent Greeks. To begin with, no one has seen the negotiating texts, not all of the package of measures proposed by the lenders, but even worse, we have not heard exactly what the government's counter-proposals are. In the speech of the Prime Minister last Friday, we heard only two specific ones, which certainly do not solve the problem which is a whole and not a single one like the one that concerns PPC and the increase in PPC tariffs. Secondly, we should put some things in place as far as the negotiation is concerned, to know exactly what we are talking about every time some people argue about the great rupture that comes to Europe, of course, in connection with the newswork that wants the Greek mission to leave unpleasant from the negotiations with the Brussels Group. So you're talking about an honest compromise. To make a degradation of the notion of "efficiency" and "compatibility". Because both of them can't compose a logical result. When you compromise, you can't be honest. You consider a man who retreates into the will of a stronger. In this case, the Greek Government is giving back the pressure of the lenders. What honesty to the government every time he says a great "yes" to what the loan sharks demand! Secondly, it would be honest that Greece should impose its will by having as a business weapon - you say it yourself - the result of the last elections, where 36% of the Greeks said a great 'no' to the continuation of the Memorandum Policy. Instead, we see in Greece the Memorandum of Media celebrating and saying that in Europe a great break has come and that the loan sharks have received the message that the Greek Government does not negotiate the red lines. Instead, we see a sad image in Brussels, where Mr. Juncker dresses Mr. Tsipras with a tie of pleasure, thereby giving the message that he, like his predecessors, worshipped the international loan shark. I come to something Mr Philis, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, said. I retained the word for abolishing the memorandum. In particular, he said that the abolition of the memorandum was not done with a wish or verbal controversy. The question that arises here is specific: Do you want to abolish the memorandum? Do you want to renegotiate the memorandum? Do you want an honest compromise with the memorandum? Do you want a definitive break and delete with an article in a bill, as the president of the Civilian Opposition then wrote on social media, current Prime Minister? Because if you are talking about abolishing, it should be completely different to the legislative work of the present government. We therefore repeat that what needs to be done at first time and immediately is the abolition of the memorandum as a whole and the lifting of all the implementing laws. If there is a polygnosis and dignosis within the tricks of SYRIZA, this should be made clear. Every time we talk about any bill, we have to take as the starting point what the government officially expresses. Because otherwise you legislate if you want to negotiate, or you legislate if you want to come into a definitive break with the loan sharks. So, Minister, this also consists of the government's overall legislative work in the last four to five months. You were electorally saying that you would involve increasing unemployment. You said that with the bill and government's implementing acts, when it becomes government, the pathogens of the memorials will be permanently erased. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] I ask, without being against the initiatives that have to do with this: does the appointment of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance really solve the problem of unemployment? So, the official unemployment, which may have exceeded 30%, was solved by the appointment of hundreds or dozens of cleaners? I repeat that we are not opposed to this, and if you remember in our position we said that we should, like those of other Greeks, have the right to work and to be paid for on the basis of legislation. But you can't flag the fight of a minority of people, saying that's how you solve a whole problem like unemployment. Also, for example, you cannot celebrate the fact that you were electorally hiding from the Greek people the fact that when you become a government, you will give Greek citizenship to 100,000 illegal immigrants. [[MA]] [[BS]] Why didn't you say so in an election? I didn't hear it anywhere. Because you knew that this would create reactions and reflexes in a healthyly thought-out part of the Greek people who do not want to become a minority within their own country. And in my short time, to comment on what is being pursued, what confirms the Golden Dawn, which has long been saying that when things come to a border point, not to a SYRIZA but to all political forces, you will refute this lie of the famous "national understanding". The New Democracy paid it very much, as did PASOK, when, after forty years of dispute, they only managed to implement the Memorandum of Understanding, so that the New Democracy would get rid of a vote. The same goes for PASOK. The same will apply to SYRIZA, because the famous 'national agreement' in this Chamber, what exactly does it involve? One condition: faith in the concept of the nation. So when it is for you to serve the monumental policies and implement the measures proposed by the loan sharks, this cannot be a patriotic duty, but an ethnicist act at the expense of the Greek people who have paid blood for the last five - six years what we call a Memorandum problem. But who has destroyed the country and whether it has criminal responsibilities - Mr Mitsotakis is missing - the answer is, yes, there are criminal responsibilities for who has destroyed the country. He cannot generally and vaguely say "when we get to point zero because we're all to blame, uh, it doesn't matter who's done what he's done." Because you can't account for this crime and the Golden Dawn. Because the Golden Dawn for its resistance to the memoirs, following political interventions, ended in prison. Mr Mitsotakis and his party must know that. In conclusion, I would like to say this because there was talk of the Parliamentary channel: Mr Mitsotakis said, of course, that the channel should be relayed live at the plenary session. The self-evident thing - and I say it in New Democracy, which has put us on the phone - is that Parliament operates with three hundred MPs, not fewer. It is also self-evident that all Members of Parliament, whether or not persecuted, should be involved in the parliamentary procedures of small or very important importance. With regard to media representation - Mr Mitsotakis, of course, has the ability, like his colleagues, to go out openly and defend what they defend - Golden Dawn pays the price of truth with a complete exclusion, with a suffocation of all means, because it empowers something very different from what serves your interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Matthew. Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Madam President. And today we are discussing some interventions by the government in the form of legislative initiatives on the tax plan. But the tax plan in the capitalist system is always, less or less, unfair and anti-grassroots. And the degree of anti-gravity, of course, depends on one hand on the correlation of power between the labour movement and its class orientation and on the other hand on the cycle of the economy, the capitalist economy. In conditions of capitalist crisis, tax raids are generalized toward popular strata, in recovery conditions some breaths are given so that these popular strata can be maintained artificially in life. For precisely why, always, over time and not only in Greece but everywhere through the tax systems, the urban states have achieved a redistribution, a further redistribution, a redistribution to the detriment of many and for the benefit of the few. That is why - and it is not a coincidence - throughout Europe, throughout the capitalist developed world, social inequalities are exacerbated. In other words, the concentration on the one hand of socially produced wealth in less and less and, on the other, the expansion of these layers that live under poverty and impoverishment is a general feature. And from this point of view, in Greece, we have a truly, deeply anti-grassed tax system. It's deeply anti-linguistic. Why? Because the source of revenue, in fact, total tax revenue comes from the popular layers. First of all, there are the indirect taxes which constitute a very large proportion of the tax system. Indirect taxes, which mean taxes on consumption and burden the unemployed, the poor, the impoverished, once they are consumed. With 23%, with 13%, 6%? It's tax-paying since it makes any consumption. [[PS]] [[MA]] In fact, they are so unfair and unpopular that the unemployed will pay the multimillionaire, the billionaire, when they consume the exact same thing, the bread for example. The same tax will be paid. Secondly, it is the indirect taxes, which are actually burdening the people's family, much more when the tax was abolished, which was also a protection pillow for the weakest. Of course, the indirect taxes are double, they even tax this income that has been taxed as indirect, a double tax. You'll tell me some people here are paying the legal persons. Apart from the fact that their share of tax revenues is too small - about 4% is and gets small - we need to see what this tax burden we have. It is nothing but a piece of the stolen by the workers of goodwill that they produce. In fact, industrialists, shipowners, bankers, big-workers are sure that what they gave them will get them back to the multiplier. From this point of view, therefore, the objectives of the labour-population movement in relation to the tax bill focus on a number of issues. Firstly, the abolition of indirect taxation on the main types of basic need for the people's family, the abolition of VAT, the excise duty, a high tax rate, in order to protect themselves precisely and not to pay taxes, which can hardly meet their needs. They call for the abolition of special tax regimes governing a number of parts of capital, with the most scandalous and extreme example of logistics. Taxation of business groups with 45% on their profits. Taxation of large real estate and movable property and, of course, measures to limit the immunity of large capital, this freedom to move capital, goods and services, with off-shore companies and the triangular benefits that are made. Is the government doing any of this? Oh, no. You will of course tell me, it is not the tax bill, but we see where things will turn out, but it is some small-mindedness that it is doing trying to correct some extreme injustices. Do you correct them, Minister, these tax injustices? Yesterday, I brought you a very small example, which you are not dealing with, excluding. What does this example say? I'll submit it to the Minutes of the House. It says that a person who has a service block - one of the so-called 'blue's', because to have the block has to have started to practice a profession - and who has an income of 5,000 euros from the blocks, is not paying tax at all. If he has now done a subsidized seminar and has taken 200 euros a year, what tax will he pay? He'll pay 2,095,6 euros tax for 5,200 euros. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] And you call him a trader, you call him an entrepreneur, who is the hardest worker in atypical work, and you do not treat this example. For 200 euros subsidised seminar will pay 2,095.6 euros tax. What are you dealing with? The ones who have been interrupted and can do a piece of money from here and there? Of course, I'm not saying no, but these people? Unless you consider them privileged. We say, Minister, that you must correct it, take it into account and face up to this enormous injustice. And you bring the specific'micromeremati'. Of course you have withdrawn the scandalous provision of Article 3 - if I am not mistaken - that you have given 25 million to business groups using natural gas as a necessary energy instrument for their production cycle. [[XS]] [[PS]] But, in spite of this, you are preparing, through the negotiation with your institutional partners - the Troika - new tax measures at the expense of the people, such as VAT on revenues ranging from 1 million 200 000 to 1 million 800 000 requested by your institutional partners and a number of such other things, such as the extension of the ENPI, the extension of the Solidarity End, all these carpets that have been put into the Memorandum era. Today the Memorandum Periods are supposed to be abolished, but their Memorandums and Implementing Laws and Anti-Fraud Measures remain. So this negotiation, which you are doing with your institutional partners, that is, this table, contains an anti-grass menu. Whether we take the plate on the forty-seven-page proposal, as was updated to the worst during this time of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, or take the proposal of the institutional partners, are anti-grass-baskets, deeply anti-grass-basic packages. So you are preparing and negotiating a new memorandum. This is what you prepare to do. From this point of view, it is a typical example of the speech by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, and not only, but also of the other parties in the Euro-mono street, where he actually urges the government to come to an agreement quickly, exercising a terrorism against the people that the disaster is awaiting him. As if now wide popular strata are living in well-being and are not bankrupt. On the other hand, of course, we have also seen the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman cultivating fruitfruit hopes that if agreement is reached - or else - we are preparing tax measures in the next period, with which we will address injustices, we will implement our policy. Of course, I do not want to talk about the political delusions which are systematically carried out by the neo-nazi party of the Golden Dawn. He came here and spoke of Junker as a loan shark, when 15 days ago in the relevant committee of Parliament we were discussing the ESDP, the Golden Dawn Representative for Junker and the ESRB was told, which is a financial instrument to address the development needs of the country that governments do not use. So what is it? Is Yunker a loan shark or a philanthropist? It can't be both. The same is true of the unemployed. Unemployment is intimidating to create offices that will provide a very cheap labour force. Or they're talking about taxation and the unfair tax system and they're not talking about their shipowners and their tax revenues. From this point of view, then, with all these developments, are you trying to corner the people around and accept what? Admit to enter the Profrust's bed for what will sacrifice more in the name of the armour, the competitiveness and profitability of the capitalist groups, so that this capitalist growth can finally come. That's what you're doing. How much more will the working class and wide popular strata be sacrificed. So, even if agreement is to be made, where any development is expected, it will be a temporary, uncertain agreement with strong anti-grassroots characteristics, tax raid, privatisation, opening up the insurance in the name of proportionate studies and sustainability, unification of the insurance funds, abolishing early retirements, which will substantially lead to a reduction in pensions, an increase in the retirement threshold. The work will handle it - it says - based on the best practices of the capitalist European Union, the wolf alliance, and, of course, the new incentives that you want to give the business groups to proceed with the recovery. So the option cannot be for the working class and the wide folk layers, between Scylla of the agreement - whatever agreement is reached between the coexistence of the SYRIZA - ANELs with the institutional partners and the Troika - and Harybden, which is the return accident, in parallel with the national currency. [[OR]] [[XS]] Like if we measure our poverty in a drachma, we'll be in a better condition! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. In this respect, what is confirmed? It is confirmed that all that you were saying in the election, and a world believed it, that you would tear the memorials, that you would smash the duo and dance the markets, cannot be done, not done. Because it may have been true that the statements you made and you were in that mood, but they are not. So what does that mean? It means there's no philosophical way out. Neither through the agreement nor through the "accident" can there be a philosophical way out. It means that there can be no pluralist way out of the European Union's twilight and with its strategic choices, that there can be no pluralist way out when the keys to the economy are made by the shipowners, the industrialists, the bankers, manufacturers and the big traders. Such a philosophical way out can't be. In this respect, what should the people do? Should he accept the continuing deterioration of his position, in the name of safeguarding the profits of a handful of capitalists, sacrifice the satisfaction of the people's needs, of his own and of his children? Or should it, on the contrary, do what the JRC says, be detached from this development of things, from this one-way that leads him to destruction, whether he walks to the left lane, to the right or to the centre, and organize his struggle immediately, to claim the return of all those who had lost in previous years, to be relieved, to claim radical outlets and overthrows in a direction that leads to this struggle in the real rupture? Real breakthrough for the benefit of the people means that I am colluding and unleashing from the European Union as a whole, I do not recognise the state debt, so I move on to the unilateral deletion of it and, at the same time, I am conflicting with the real leaders, capital and capitalist profits, and the working class takes over the means of production to organise the economy and to exploit all the wealthy sources in the interests of satisfying the people's needs. This is very realistic, because the know-how exists and the scientists exist, and the skilled workforce exists, and the wealthy production resources exist in our country to proceed to such an organisation of the production process. It is a question of overthrowing power correlations for the benefit of the working class and at the expense of the bourgeoisie, to change the hands of power. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u86	And we thank Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The Parliamentary spokesman of the ANELs, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, has been speaking for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to ask the Minister to place her in the complaint made yesterday by Mr Koutsoukos of PASOK, that this article 3 "photographed" a well-known businessman who introduces gas and sells it as gold in PPC and ask her if it is true. Because I have seen that Mrs Valvanie did not respond and I have interrupted the seats. Now that I am at the Step of the House, I would ask her at any time to give an answer, because I am one of them - because there are too many fellow Members, particularly from SYRIZA, but also from the other parties - who have raised this lasting scandal that has been taking place in recent years. You want to say something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u88	There's no such thing as that. I answered Mr. Koutsuko yesterday when we were done. I was the last one to talk to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u89	I'm sorry. Thank you. [[GA]] [[OR]] Ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing the tax bill, the Greek society is indeed monitoring with unrelenting interest the movements of the Greek Government in this critical battle against lenders who have incredibly hardened their attitude. And while this is the case, we have the parliamentary representatives of the opposition parties on the same line and do what we are watching every day from the channels of the Memorandum bearers and the Memorandum "infinite" to want, even at this critical moment, to be placed on the side of those who say "accept everything and whatever it may be". And the question arises: Do you really think that we should accept an agreement that will have wages and pensions of EUR 300? As the President of the National Confederation of Greek Trade revealed in the Committee of Parliament, Mr Tomsen said to him "Listen, you are Balkans. 300 euros and a lot of them. This is what we have done for you." And the President-in-Office, I would like to tell you that he is a prominent member of the New Democracy, is not the anti-immemorial party. He was a candidate for MEPs, as was Mr Margaret Schroednas. Do you remember him? It is him who did not remember PASOK's previous colleague that he went out last morning and said - as a representative of the Commission now, not as a representative of the New Democracy - that 'we did not ask for a pension cut'. And you saw the document which was released that - yes - "they include what the Vice-President of the Greek Government officially informed us". Ladies and gentlemen, we have also heard from the representative of that party who, with so much pressure and so stubbornly, politically, wants foreigners to make it a member of the Co-government, the River, say that 'the conflict is imminent and inevitable'. Even from this, the Stepma said "to put the engines backwards" and told us that this information was brought to it "from the cockpit". I was again surprised that the Minister, the government's representative, did not take the floor to confirm or deny. Indeed, may Mr Theodorakis today have had such information or simply repeated in other words what Mrs Bakoyannis had said on the eve of the Holy Spirit, which is part of this well-known project'streng the people, because with terrified citizens we can all go through'? I would therefore ask Mrs Valverde to respond, because I have noted exactly - after all, they are recorded in the Minutes - what Mrs Liberck said. "According to information," he says - "people know in the cockpit". And he wondered if we have a plan for the moment of the impact, for after the impact, and he spoke to us, as George Papaconstantinou said, about Titanic, directly. He didn't refer us to tents, but he told us about it. [[SM]] [[GA]] Here in the Chamber, then, the spokesman for the Potahmarch spoke of the "match". I think that it should not go through this way and I want to believe that this is not the case in this logic and the strategy that all Greeks and all Greeks see. But those who have had information and suspicions that a project has indeed been drawn up and implemented by those who said to everything 'yes', that unfortunately - unfortunately, I am not happy at all - and Mr Ignatiu came in his book to quote information, but also the Minister of Finance of Andreas Papandreou, Mr Romeliotis yesterday, came to the Committee of Parliament to present documentary evidence and information that made fellow Members speak of criminal responsibilities that will be requested from today and then. And here it cannot - I think - be silent about the government, when it was heard that Greek journalists were doing seminars abroad. Let the Greeks and Greeks hear it. Mr. Romeliotis said so. And I repeat, Mr Romeliotis is not in the'sprayed'. Mr Romeliotis, apart from the Minister for Finance, was the country's representative at the International Monetary Fund. Mr. Romeliotis was in the administration of Piraeus Bank. So, for what he says, he knows what he's saying. They took - it says - Greek journalists are doing them a seminar on how to get through all this crime to the people, in which I believe you are unwittingly, ladies and gentlemen of today's Opposition, with your votes yesterday you worked together during the Samara-Venizelos co-government period. And there's still no sign of self-criticism. On the contrary, there is an excess of nerves. Even today, in bills you vote on, on the other hand, you are making a tenth rhetorical opposition. I have never lived here - and I have been here for many years - that is to say almost all the bills of this bad government to vote for them, but otherwise to say that it is a bad government. Madam Minister - I would like to repeat - it is necessary to say that it is useful to inform the National Representation of whether what our colleague from Potami said a little while ago from the Stepma. You were here, I imagine. He said that it was a given "accident" and that he learned it from the "pilot" - I referred to the meeting Mr. Tsipras has today with Mr. Theodorakis - and that he had this information and given it here to the House and to the Greek people. He talked about Titanic. He said we should put the engines back quickly - obviously he'll talk about a rivership to ask us to put the engines back! - and you didn't say anything. But I think that does the same damage that the other visitor, the waiting Chief, the successor of Mr. Samaras, wanted to see her, Mr. Bakoyannis. Is he there now? Is he going to meet the Prime Minister in a moment? I don't know what she's going to do. I do not really know if we too can apply to go and ask the Prime Minister in particular. I don't know what he's on his way to, who else he's representing. Do you know? Does Mrs Bakoyannis represent New Democracy there? Is he on behalf of Mr. Samaras? Something goes on to tell him we don't know, don't we have to know? Are we ever gonna find out? What can I say? [[AR]] [[SM]] Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the bill is concerned, I think that nobody has anything to add since his vote, with any comments, I think that it makes any arguments anyone would like to present before you. But, Madam President, I just wanted you to give me a minute to address only two amendments which will certainly not be debated and which will therefore not even get into the trouble to see whether or not the Minister will adopt them. However, since the Bureau has given us this opportunity to say that the first relates to the repayment of a portion of a debtor's inheritance tax which is unable to repay cash by giving the entire property or part to the State. Minister, the amendment says that it is legitimate to extend what is happening in favour of private individuals, damage to the Greek State, and in the case of sports clubs that may have this weakness, but have real estate within the city plan and are therefore publicly valued by the method of yielding the objective value. That was the one amendment I tabled concerning the historic amateur association of Panahia. And the second is, I believe, a number of private investors who are in this environment where liquidity is being demanded and who say that the guarantee letter, which we so far have been asking for, could be replaced for the completion of investment projects and are prerequisites, with a possibility of registering a mortgage on all the property. You can understand that - I do not have any more time, I am already under the President's tolerance, but I am done, Madam President - that it does not create any problem, while instead it gives a lot of people to complete their investment projects. You realise that the Independent Greeks of course are voting in favour of the provisions of the bill and we are denounced those who went through it just before the Stepma, making the molesters of a drama that will never happen, even though pilots were ready to donate to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. PASOK Parliamentary spokesman Leonida Gregorakos has spoken for twelve minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am given the opportunity today from the Step of Parliament to comment on the phenomenon that the Greek people have seen yesterday, namely that the plenary should work and discuss with the Members of Parliament, but that Parliament's television show the Commission the debt. I have also sent you a letter. I believe that this will be the last time and we will be heard, as opposition, but also all the Members of Parliament, about this phenomenon and will finally stop the House being the tool of someone for personal self-interest and what else one can think politically and parapolitically. [[CB]] [[3AR]] Ladies and gentlemen, party irrationality. It has taken incredible proportions to this phenomenon, to be a third pillar of power, and in fact it is an institution of democracy, and the country has achieved the impossible, through this choice: the total reversal of values, the depreciation of institutions and the diffusion of a paradox. You're all aware of it. I believe and believe it - as I believe it is yours too - that the President of this House must be a man free. He must be free from ideological and party ideas. I inform you - because I heard yesterday when I spoke - because I watched from the Reform of the Parliament - and before, when it existed, I was young at the time, because the junta had abolished it - that this position, this institution, was served by people, men and women, with a consistent, serious and high sense of responsibility as before. The whole behaviour of the President of Parliament is, frankly, a parliamentary and democratic diversion. You don't understand. When you understand it, it'll be too late. So I would like to say that the Greek Parliament is all of us, that it is the Greek people and that none of us have entered to promote unforgettable political and personal pursuits. Let some people understand that. Now, by addressing Mr. Friend, who knows he's busy and has too many jobs, I would like to say that I saw him very low today. I'm not happy about that at all. He tried to justify unjustified. He talked about Mr. Rumuliotis. Let me remind him: the betrayal of many, the traitor. Take a good look at that. I will also tell Mr Romeliotis that all years are state-owned and has turned everyone and everything away, that no stranger to the beneficiary. If it's true what he said yesterday, let's attest them. But he will tell us whether it is true and what he said when he was advisor to George Papandreou, when he was the minister of Andreas Papandreou, when he was advisor to all the governments of the New Democracy. He'll tell us when he was telling the truth after all. Nothing else. To Mr. Friend, for Mr. Yannitsi's study, I will say that I have just heard Mr. Friend now. But in 2002, I didn't hear him. But I want to say to him that all these studies, including Mr Yannissi and another study of the University of Macedonia, which I will tell you now, have something special to say and have a lot of subjective conclusions within them. So in the Yannitsi study, as Mr Philis said, we have that they have paid for the crisis - a memorandum, a memorandum, but the crisis has brought it, not the Memorandum - that 9% of the rich only paid and 336% of the poor. Listen to another study you're working on. A study was carried out by the University of Macedonia. At 75.25%, they believe the Greek economy's crisis was planned by various ex-institutional centres. Does that remind you of anything? Does it remind you what Varoufakis said yesterday from Heraklion? In fact, since the negotiations are taking place in Europe, what is the Minister of Finance in Heraklion doing? Secondly, 68.6% argues that the medicine for the treatment of cancer has been found, but is not given in broad circulation. [[PE]] [[CB]] 58.74% claims that the attack on the Twin Towers was the result of a well-organised US plan to enforce their foreign policy. Great stuff! There is also a 27% that he believes that Neil Armstrong, the one who went to the moon, never stepped foot on the moon, but that the attraction had been directed at a wilderness site of the earth. Mr. Philly, let's be vigilant in all the studies. It does not hurt, because the easy extraction of conclusions from such studies and the generalisations that one can see can lead to high rates of irrationalism on the issue that we all have to worry about. I would therefore like to say with great appreciation to Mr Philly that what we need to take care of, especially when we are parliamentary representatives and men who have taken on a serious political role within a specific political context, are the parties who believe that the micro-party game is the quintusy of democracy and governance of the country, that populism is the best means to win the electorate, the parties that do not produce politics and politicians, who verbally defeat all the opponents - because Philis spoke about everything today - corruption, the party state, while at the same time they believe that the cause of the crisis is solely because of external factors. Does this remind you of anything from the study you heard? We must therefore be very careful about what we are saying in Parliament and especially at these critical times. Today we are discussing a bill, Minister - I know you, I know your modesty, your honesty - a mini-tax bill which unblocks the tax declarations, which have been stuck because of the ambiguity that prevailed, which corrects failures and errors. We, as you have seen, will be found in this and we will support it. But today Greece has been having a difficult time. And that, at last, must be understood and let them be more modest. I would remind you of a phrase which we have all condemned, the'short and humbly'. It doesn't hurt. It proved to be a very wise phrase. The country today is in a dramatic situation. Do not take it as being a simple game and that, you know, will retreat, do not retreat or retreat and retreat. This is for children's games. The ghost of bankruptcy is above Greece as ever, although Greece has spent five years after the crisis. The hours are critical. Everything can happen any minute. Previously, Mrs. Liberaki was accused of talking about the accident. The circumstances require consensus. They want a deal. The decisions we have to make at these critical times are painful for everyone. There's no way it'll hurt you and not hurt us or hurt us and not hurt you. You'll be from another planet. It needs courage and courage from all of us and much more from the Prime Minister. It must assume its responsibilities, rule the place, not transfer its responsibilities to the people. Because the debt of all of us is to reverse the downhill course of the country. The story will be, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ruthless for all of us. He won't be in a portion of us, but to all of us. Because we'll all be accountable to our children, to ourselves, to our parents and to the next generations. We will be irreparably exposed, because we will all look here - and those who are here and those who are outside and those who do not listen to them and those who have a different view - that we are all fatal and unwitting. Specific is the order you took on January 25th. The country, however, is lagging behind for five months. The economy is experiencing the most dramatic crisis in the post-war period. There is nowhere "salo" on the market. The State has declared an informal payment stop with its suppliers. I would like to ask the President of Parliament to give Parliament's money for hospitals. The Greek Parliament does not need the money it holds here. [[RG]] [[PE]] When the money of all the funds, all the agencies were transferred to the Greek state, the Greek Parliament should also give its money to serve the needs of Greek citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I have not started my speech yet. I've heard them very seriously. The private sector each day loses the ground under its feet. Don't laugh, gentlemen, don't laugh. Everyone will judge us. Don't laugh, gentlemen, I don't honor you. I've never laughed as many times as I've seen you in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u92	Where do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u93	The investment apnea, therefore, has devastated the country and the economy. Deposit outflows - if there are - as many as are left with the political climate that has been created, they will also be gone. Feelings of fear have paid off all citizens. Political uncertainty leads to the stagnation, paralysis and demolition. Your co-government has seen from the early days signs of disorganization, symptoms of unprecedented insufficiency, inability and degeneration. Imagines Kuggy, other times. How many Greeks do they want to become Cugie Greece? He threatens lenders because it doesn't count at noon in the sun. It is against the European institutions. He's dreaming of geopolitical upheavals in our area. He's moving bases from here and there. It motivates citizens' wildest instincts, cultivating the logic of a slain nation. She's obsessed with public administration by placing her own children. He promises appointments. It re-calls everyone, even those who had a monkey's degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u94	Where do you live?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u95	Greece, society, five months now, sees a heirly government figure that doesn't know where it's going and where it's going. All he has consistently done is to cancel all the reform changes that have taken place in recent years and make fun of the Constitution. Common denominator of all government actions and interventions to rectify a superfood counterproductive model of organisation and operation of the country. He refuses to submit that same Government and to make specific and realistic proposals public, invoking the incomplete and stupid theory of the creative ambiguity of Varoufakis. It leaks what the troika renamed to institutions is asking for, but without informing us of its own proposals, if any. Negotiation is a fascism. It invokes the need for an honest compromise, while the proposals it puts forward are on the reverse. Yesterday - he says - they returned it on Saturday, on Sunday they went again with the same. It is living the myth of political negotiation with the communication it has, when everyone points to the need for common approaches with the so-called technical steps. It achieved the impossible: eighteen against one. And all this, when Mr. Tsipras simply presides, failing to put a elementary order in his government. Incapable of formulating an elementary plan for managing the unprecedented political and economic crisis facing the country. Living in a fear of inner-party dispute, it is consumed in an internal negotiation with its components. Other inside, other outside. Time is running out. Greece is on the edge of the cliff, without himself being aware of the multiple deadlocks caused by the five-month rule of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by asking you this: we do not want to kill ourselves with you by disturbing Europeans. In this behavior, we're not going to be with you. We do not want Greece to destroy itself or to destroy Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u96	But you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u97	We will be with you if you abandon the amateurism that distinguishes you, all these dangerous obsolescences. We'll be with you if you leave these games and theories and get serious. We will be with you if we do see that even now you are consistently serving the first and most important red line you have put yourself in the elections, which is one: Greece's presence at the core of the advanced European countries. [[FT]] [[RG]] We are calling, then, for you to bring in concrete, structured, realistic proposals to bring together the fight against negotiation with European partners and lenders. I would not like to participate in any government, I do not want to participate in any government. I want to support the country, I want to support Greece, the country with you. Because the price of the five-month act is huge. So, with this selfishness, you really ought to be reconciled. Why don't we question you - personally - your patriotism. You might be questioning mine. Nor do I personally question the Left, which you want to represent. But we're here for clean words, clean points, clean sentences. That's how we'll discuss it, without inferior advice and without purpose. I can assure you that my party and I personally did not mind the alteration of power, because the rotation of power is the rule of democratic culture. But we have been unresponsible, diligence and lightness, which has been showing a heirly governmental shape, which is nationalism and the satisfaction of power, turning around with helicopters and airplanes. Friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow Greece to avoid bankruptcy, to remain in the Eurozone, to reach an agreement with the lenders, without left-wing ideals, without anti-immemorandum hooks, without nationalistic columns. In this battle, we will be with you, without hindrances and purposes, as I said before. The exit from the crisis for us is the great challenge. Finally, I would like to remind you, as Lenin said, "If it were early yesterday, tomorrow it will be too late, comrades and companions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u98	We thank Mr Gregorakos, the PASOK Parliamentary Representative. Mr. Gregoraco?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u99	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u100	Would you sit down?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u101	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u102	If you want, listen to me for half a second, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u104	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u105	I hope you don't act like the President and comment on what I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u106	Will you listen to me for a second, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u107	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u108	Good. I do not have your own parliamentary experience, nor do I have your parliamentary term. However, because I have been involved for several years, perhaps not like the years that you have taken part in the political life of the country, I would like to say to you that what I have learned and what I have learned and what I think is right and crucial and useful is when we make criticism - let me and I want you to listen to me - whether or not this criticism is valid, justified or unjustified, when this criticism concerns persons who are not present, when this criticism is made, in order to answer, I think that this is politically not correct, is not fair. Let me make this observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u109	It's not right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, let me say. You may have the whole right of the world. But I think I am neither representing Mr. Friend at the moment nor the President of this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Friend should be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Friends has just arrived. I think, as President-in-Office at the moment, that's what I think and make this comment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u113	Why are you commenting? Why didn't you do it to Mr. Nicholas? Why are you so one-sided?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u114	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u115	I want you to take the 20-year-old tapes, see if another president or vice president does what you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Gregoraco...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u117	Get down and answer me. From the Step this sacred can't be answered!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u118	I said from the beginning...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u119	You've ruined everything! Get down, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Gregoraco, I've said from the beginning...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u121	Get down! I want you to tell me historically if what you're doing has been in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Gregoraco, I made a crisis and it ended for me. The debate on parliamentary representatives and rapporteurs has been completed. There are only two speakers left, MPs. We will give the floor, in turn, as has been written, to Mrs Kasimatis, a member of the SYRIZA. The last speaker is Mr Geramis Balaouras, MP of SYRIZA, too. Mrs Cassimatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u123	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the anti-population rhetoric for the government's relief bill - and I am referring to the Memorandum of Understanding - one would say that for the first time it is doing some self-criticism, because otherwise we would call the assumption of the need to amend, regulate, improve some of the extremities of the Code of Income Tax, which was voted on in the summer of 2013 and is going to be implemented for the first time in 2014 incomes. Slowly late than never! What the bill contains is imposed by the course of things and the logic of transactions. That is to say, from the self-evident, understanding and introduction of which many people are calling today and yesterday, but only the government understands the responsibility to translate it into a law of the state. So the representatives of the Officerate, unable to forgive their until the first government for circumventing the self-evident arrangements, which would otherwise trouble taxpayers, leave today the scope of the debate and engage in dangers, leading a lot of citizens to the banks' guises. This isn't the first time. The same thing they did in other critical times for democracy, in the mid-term of the 2012 elections from May to June. Then you wanted to keep the ship of the Memorandum and dependency on it. When you negotiated and granted, however, Greek people's rights to survival. But it is not just the Civic Opposition, because it is not useful for the public reason to be distractive. I refer to all the parties of the Memorandum Arc. Fortunately, however, these screams that conceal the political desperation of Antipopulation do not share the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens standing at the side of the Greek Government in this negotiation. I hope that in the future and until at least a favourable agreement is reached for the Greek people and that - the much more interest in the country - you will have to stop this sequence of disastrous declarations and policies you will have been able to provide a lasting service that you can even offer now. This is to despair, in any case, this obsession with a failed programme, a programme that failed to achieve its declared objectives, but of course it achieved the goals it had at its core, and that was a massive redistribution for the weak. Today, in the European Union, an aggressive European Union, which places people outside the European acquis, ignoring and violating basic human rights, on roof, on work, on health, on education, on childhood, we are present. We are present and seek to stop this exchange. But I wonder: Are some people here today and in general public speech here defending this Europeanism? Of course, I exclude the Communist Party of Greece. However, at the moment we believed that our fellow Members of the Com mittee on Representation would be presenting us with the first motions for national consensus. They're disgusting us. You agree with the bill, but you disagree with the negotiation and you are looking at the country's Prime Minister for the current deadlock. [[PM]] [[LA]] You are sterile at a very critical moment for the country, avoiding a specific answer for the right generation, ignoring the fact that on 25 January the Greek people ordered a halt to austerity. Now what do you suggest? Omission of the democratic principle? Agreement at all costs, and because we don't sign up to you, are you blaming us? Answer specifically. The lenders are asking us for cuts in main and supplementary pensions, because they require a total reduction in expenditure by 1% of GDP. What do you suggest? A deal with a flesh clause? We represent the Greek people, the one who paid the failed programme, namely the one who paid the "success" of the memorandum, because that is what this is about. The memorandum saved the great interests, the Franco-German banks, the systemic stability of the euro, paying the financial "fuss" with the real money of the employees. I am going to refer to the derogatory mention - and I am sorry to say it - of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative for the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt. I am referring to Mr Mitsotakis. I was there yesterday and saw them all. They were well clothed, but you chose to see some piece of shirt, when you close your ears, they sense it and the sights of the big crimes of the "white collar", that is, the crimes that are committed in an expensive and clean costume. These 'cousts' have ended us, and for these crimes we have been discussing. Because of these crimes, the Greek people are suffering. Because of these crimes you can today come here and be at risk without responding directly: Is debt sustainable or not? You said that it is sustainable while it is not and while it is used as a tool, as a lever of pressure to change our model of economy in a direction that the Greek people have not chosen. Aren't restructuring required? In 2010 we rescued them. Who's gonna pay this time? Answer me. We say: 'Not us, not Greece again, not the Greek people again, not just the Greek people'. To assume their responsibilities and the European Union, which is a political union of equal partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Cassimatis. I would ask the rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups very much to say whether they want to speak for a three-minute period, as has been done in consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u125	We had said yesterday about seven minutes to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u126	All right, Mr. Veyropoulos. Mr. Gerosios Balaouras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill brought by the Minister of Finance. I listened very carefully to both the Commission and the plenary on the positions of the opposition parties which reminded me of positions that in the old books were written - if you remember - 'corrections of sinned'. This is happening today. The Government shall bring in provisions correcting the ‘sinner’ or ‘sinner’ of the previous governments. This is where we enter the irrationalities. Both the rapporteur of the New Democracy and the other parties have said that the provisions brought about by the government are correct and unequivocal. I think a lot of people have said it. I say it myself: you in five years, why didn't you make these self-evident and correct provisions? Here I would add the phrase 'fair provisions'. Why were you taxing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u128	We did them last year. The n. 4110 we made him last year. This year, the law applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Besyropoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u130	Why did you tax the work jungle idols with the blocks or the poor farmers? In fact, we have already heard Mr Gregorakos making a criticism. He talked about a client state, about problems like that, about problems otherwise...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u131	Two basic things we're talking about at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Besyropoulou, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u133	She's been talking for three or five years or seven years, like nothing has changed. He blames the government of SYRIZA for a client state. Where are we? [[IT]] [[PM]] The government's in trouble. We need to reach agreement in all directions. The problem is due to this House, because there is neither self-criticism nor modesty from the standpoint of counter-population. There is no real opposition on the part of the opposition. We hear disasters and they are directed at a government that has just begun to rule. Who? Did you not lead the Greek society to the abyss condition of 1.5 million unemployed, to the 26% reduction in GDP, to the sinking of small and medium-sized enterprises that closed down two hundred, three hundred businesses every week? And you're reproaching us that we're allegedly negotiating fakes? We're making tough negotiations - and you know it - with dignity! What else do you propose to us, really? Shall we accept their terms? Admit what was done beforehand, with an email they sent and signed by the ministers or Prime Ministers? Do you want to lead society again? Can we cut off the C.E.D.? Can we cut the pensions of 300 and 400 euros? Is that what you want? Say it clean! Break up labour relations again, even more? Shall we take the country back to the recession? Thank you very much, we won't! There are two worlds. One world is expressed by the government that is in existence today, with problems, at speeds which, in my view, should be greater. However, they are different, there is no comparison with the world of yours, despite terrorism. And the day before yesterday we heard from a New Democracy official that this weekend the ATMs will be closed, because it's even a holiday day. There is a terrorist coordination - and you see it - domestic, European SMEs, political and economic elites and to do so more specifically than European channels. Aren't you concerned about the support of the Greek people? These numbers that give us, they have never been given - and even in crisis - in the country, so strong support for the Greek Government! Shouldn't we be thinking about it? And that, if you want, is our main weapon. But we also have another weapon, along with the strategy of internationalising the problem, because there is a globalised economy. A humiliation, ladies and gentlemen, of Greece leads to a deep crisis and Europe perhaps worldwide. Today, the newspapers after the failure and the stop of the negotiations have a series of stock exchanges that have sunk worldwide, more than 1% from the United States to Japan, with the main focus of the European stock exchanges that fall to around 2%. We could sign up immediately, in fact, with an email sent to us by the Symbles and others, to re-enter the economy and society in deeper crisis, to send other new immigrants and to have other old people starved, to put new taxes on non-existent ones again. He said Phils earlier and quoted the name Yannitsi and became a saliva. In addition, his scientific work and his policy of 2000. He said 330% tax was levied on non-taxes, 9% on having. Why? Forget the Yannisi chapter. He's the bad guy, he's the traitor, he left PASOK. Now I don't know what he's doing. I respect him as a scientist. [[BS]] AT But let's open up, Mr. Gregoraco, the studies of INE-GSH. We don't like it because it's the workers? Let it go. Let's open the studies of the Bank of Greece, which is not of SYRIZA - we know very well - and its leadership is more attentive to you. Mr Mitsotakis has even come to say that public spending must be reduced further. Where are public spending going? More? Is there anything you haven't demolished? How to reduce public spending? Our proposal is a policy. And we have an important event last night by the President of the European Central Bank, Mr Draghi, who said that the solution would be political. That's what we've done for so long, that's what we've lifted, that's what we imposed. Our proposal has elements of retreat. It's clear. We are not happy even with these small retreats. But in any case, we should say about the Oriental games that those who mock the Orientals, the Balkans, the Turks, the Syrians, etc. and see how they respect and fail their word and the agreement they make between us and them. It's made sense. The Prime Minister said it and Varoufakis said it and other SYRIZA officials said it. These are well-known things. They're the ones mocking the Orientals, just like we are. However, we, colleagues of the Opposition, whether you want it or you do not want it, will insist, we will make a class reallocation of burdens. We'll lighten the non-existent and light the spark of the economy, the spark of growth to move forward. We will go in a direction that gives perspective and vision with debt write-down, an element necessary for our path from now on. Greece's bet, ladies and gentlemen, is Europe's bet. The birth was difficult. But the old one left. The new bounce is still squeezing, standing on its feet, but it's growing and reaping and will last for many, many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr Balaura. The Minister has the floor, Mr Valavani. Fifteen minutes enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. I do not want to abuse Parliament's time because yesterday I presented the bill. I will confine myself to clarifying some of the issues raised in the debate. I will only say introductory terms, because I personally asked Mr Nicholas that I do not have direct information from the cockpit, as has been said. I don't know if anyone else has. But within a few minutes the Prime Minister will speak publicly from what I have in mind in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, so the entire Greek people will have the opportunity to have information directly from the cockpit together. I would also like to say, in relation to the criticism, which I accept on the main aspects of the fact that the bill came as urgent, that if there is any justification, there is this. Firstly, we do not plan on paper the interventions we make in a whole complex, an entire new income tax code - which is not ours - which we voted against when it was a debate in Parliament. I want to fix something in relation to what Mr Kegeroglu said. I've never said we can't hurt the Income Tax Code. Why is it? The Saints? I have repeatedly said that two tax bills cannot come in the same year. This is not done for very practical reasons ever. The statements made today that, once again, follow the legislation of summer 2013 - which for the first time applies with the tax declarations on the incomes of the previous year, 2014 - is the tax bill that its revenues support the current budget for 2015. [[MA]] [[BS]] The 2015 tax bill, which is the tax declarations made next year, will be our tax bill, and I believe that there - although it is a very difficult story, because it is a multitude of real systems and you may think that you are correcting things and not actually being corrected - we will be able to prove what we have been saying all this time - and before as a Precious Opposition and today as a government - that we want taxation to be, even if it is going to start, even to become fairer. And fairer means that it has to be launched, a mechanism for redistributing income that will strengthen the downwards, and of course some will have to pay for it, and they cannot be any more than others, so I can speak on some classic terms. I will also accept the criticism, but I will say that we also have a relationship of sensitivity to the issues raised by workers' struggles, which puts the movement itself, which workers and small and medium-sized enterprises all over Greece. And in that sense, we learn from them. And I think it's not a shame to learn from what they're asking. And I really think - and take it as lightning, I don't want to say anything else - that what we're bringing here we've made ourselves. They do not come from foreign or Greek large legal offices, they are not written in English to go out for approval and then bring them here. These are things that we have created the few partners that exist at the Ministry, in cooperation and with the great help of the service mechanism. Of course you will know that in the field of taxation this is a service mechanism that does not belong to the Minister, which is supposed to be responsible for fiscal policy, but which belongs to the Secretariat-General for Public Income, which has economic and administrative self-sufficiency. I would like to mention a few very specific issues, which is why I said to speak before Mr Besiropoulos, so that we can clarify them. I do not understand exactly the issue posed by the New Democracy - Mr Vésiropoulos and other speakers on the part of the New Democracy Party - in relation to the question of personal companies, I assume that he means the UN or the EU, with simple books. If those who have shares in these companies decide to sell their shares, that's what gets caught in the bill. It is taken where we say 'if they have income only from capital transfer gains.' If we mean 'I keep my share only in taxation', you know much better than I - and in relation to your previous professional status - that the profits of these companies are not taxed at the level of the natural person, are taxed at the level of the company and, of course, included in the E1 income tax declaration under codes 431 and 432, but not accidentally listed 'Other information' because they are not going there to tax. [[PS]] [[MA]] They can mainly for two reasons, as is the structure of the new Code of Income Tax. Firstly, in order to cover any evidence and not to have to pay any evidence because they are considered an income, they therefore cover any evidence they may have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u136	When it's not covering the evidence, it's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u137	Up to 12,000...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u138	When it's not covering the evidence, that's what I've been telling you for two days. When not covering the presumptions, tax the presumptions, while the other undertakings are exempted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u139	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u140	Why should we have two standards? That's what I've been saying to your partners for two days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u141	Yeah, I'm sorry. I couldn't understand. And with my colleagues who are here watching and are taxier and are much more experienced in the only conclusion they had come to is whether there is a question of imposing a solidarity levy, that is, that the sums of more than 12,000 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u142	It does not cover the presumptions and tax the evidence with 26% on the advance tax, and we have two standards. Why do you register...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u143	You mean for those who have no income? That's where the company's taxed and finally...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u144	In the 'Other Information', in codes 431 and 432, if colleagues enter and clear up, they will see that when they do not cover the evidence and income, it is EUR 3 000 and the evidence is EUR 7 000 - it is under EUR 9 500 - it is taxed at 26% for the difference. That's what I'm saying, it's not two yards and two weights. I told you in the Commission. I told you yesterday, I'm telling you today. It has nothing to do with goodwill. It's simple, it's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u145	It is, however, good to avoid having to deal with such issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u146	I'm sorry, Madam President. I think this intervention helps. However, I will tell you very much that if 26% goes to the difference, you would see that the arrangements that we make over an income, over 6,000, in the difference are 26%. I mean, we don't forget...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u147	For up to EUR 9,500 shall be exempted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u148	Yes, I'm telling the difference. In other words, we do not forget that, at the end of the day, it is a business activity and the evidence that is intended to catch this bill with the small regulations it makes is the third intervention in terms of evidence, precisely because the evidence in particular about the low-wages, especially those who have atypical incomes and who are those who should not really pay, is such a complex complex complex - I said to the Commission - they are a little like conflicting cars. I mean, you're trying to face one, and someone else is firing the rest. It is no coincidence that it is the third attempt to change, to improve completely absurd, on the basis of common sense, aspects of tax legislation. I would also like to refer to the issue of agricultural subsidies and subsidies which has again been raised. Because there has been a very long discussion from this Step last time, I will read a very brief note that gave me a service agent who has dealt with it and says: Preliminary scheme, Law 2238/1994: ‘The implied determination of agricultural income contained the aid - subsidies and therefore was not retaxed’. Existing scheme, L.4172/2013, the one that is now imposed: ‘With the original provision of Article 21(1) as a profit from business activity, the total revenue from business transactions after deduction of business expenses is considered to be the total revenue from business expenses. Therefore, the aid - subsidies under the common agricultural policy was initially taxed as income from rural business regardless of the amount. It should be noted that the European Union regulations providing for the granting of the above-mentioned subsidies do not determine whether or not they are taxed. In contact with the tax administration with other tax authorities of Member States of the European Union, it was found that there was no uniform application of their taxation. Other Member States have taxed all aid - subsidies, other Member States - part of them and others. [[XS]] [[PS]] The provisions of Article 2(1) of Law No.4328/14-2015 supplemented Article 21(1) and provided for a more favourable scheme with the introduction of a duty-free limit of EUR 12,000 for the abovementioned aid - subsidies.’ I asked for this so that we could have an overall position. I will also tell you that the issue of agricultural subsidies was first raised in plenary, on a timely question that was raised by Mr Manolakou, Member of the European Parliament. In the debate I personally had with her, after I said that we really do not want small and medium-sized farmers to tax, as the JRC, in this timely question, Mrs Manolakou herself, told me - because I said to her that we need to set a limit up to which they will be taxed, not, of course, from the first euro, as she was in the law - that the majority of subsidies are up to EUR 2 000. By looking in this direction, we found this number that we gave you, when we discussed it last time, that with EUR 12 000 tax-free 90% of subsidies remains tax-free. In other words, small and medium-sized farms really remain free of subsidies. I am not saying anything about the compensation they were also taxed and we have completely exempted them from any compensation. I wanted to say something to Mr Carathanasopoulos who actually asked yesterday, but I didn't find him in the meantime about the matter he raised today and said that he asked me. It is the case of the one who has a block and at the same time has income from a seminar. As far as we searched it, as my colleagues did, Article 12(2) of the Code of Income Tax applies to them, which says 'up to three employers with written agreement'. If - as is usually done - there was a written agreement, that is to say, a signature had been signed for participation in the seminar, then that works, and since it has up to two other employers, it does not go with the income tax of employees and pensioners. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The same applies if it has more than three employers. One of the employers can still be seen as the seminar, since it has signed and there is some kind of written, standard, standard agreement, one - as we know in this case - has more than 75% income. On recruitment policy, I would like to say - because Mr Mitsotakis has raised these issues - that I cannot understand which recruitment he means. Who have been recruited so far? The school guards, the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, the teachers in technical education - all that were launched in the summer of 2003 - and the journalists of the ERT. That's the entire recruitment orgy! You should know that no recruits approved by the previous troika agreements for 2015 have yet been opened. Those other recruitments were carried out at the time of the 2014 recruitment period, which should have taken place in 2014. The funds have been reintroduced - as you know if they are not lost, they are actually leaving the budget - and only part of the 2014 recruitments and they are all of the previous years' PPAs that children had to have been hired for years. [[OR]] [[XS]] I'll tell you, at the Treasury, it's a shameful situation. The colleague who spoke about the issue of those who have been hired and are new referred to those who were recruited by the previous government in 2014. They have not yet been recruited this year, despite a few minors owed since 2014, but few. It has been opened on the part of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues open to tender, through the market, with four hundred sixty-five posts, registered in 2014 and the funds had not been made at that time. All those who are to be hired are three hundred - and I don't know where they're going to be first - in the entire Ministry of Finance. Where are they going to go first? Are they going to the ILO, asking for a hundred? Are they going to the Financial Prosecutors, asking for at least a hundred fifty? Are they going to computer systems, where there's a wretch, a giant battle? Get on the phone. You will find them there, in Moschato and elsewhere, on weekends, every night at 23: 00 or 24: 00. That's how the service's being held. But this cannot continue, as we understand. With titanic efforts and a thousand two patches, with no resources available for many years, the information systems story continues. This is where people really needed to come. If we want to check, there must be a control mechanism. The problem, of course, as in all the public sector, is not redundancies. The redundancies are the ones I told you about. Of course, we did not get any degrees or people who had problems with courts - understand what character - we got those who were wrongly fired. And they were fired for what? To signal a public exit tsunami - this is the real exit, that's not the least we've got - experienced people. I keep talking about the service mechanism at the Ministry of Finance. Most experienced people, who really could rely on them and the audit mechanism, have been retired and not just on time. Too many of them, precisely because such conditions have been created by outsiders, but also by some who have helped them from within, made this massive exit and we will now pay it. Thank you very much for understanding. Since I am in Stepma and ten days are left, i.e. we are at the countdown for the completion of the regulation of up to a hundred instalments, I would like to make the last call I have made whenever I have been on the Step towards tax administration, before all else. In this situation, being taken care of on the basis of all that we have discussed, they really need to try to respond to what we had to legislate a month and a half ago on frozen, seized accounts. They must help the people who want to regulate, help them to delete part of their debts and cover up with these seizures of their participation in the arrangement. The issue has been raised by Members of all the parties from here. There's nothing else I can do. We have come to legislate while we have said - and I have received assurances - that there is no need for legislation. This does not seem to have been resolved. There's ten days left. I would also like to remind you that, unfortunately, in taxes and in large control centres throughout the country there are still thousands of uncontrolled - there is no way that they have been checked - cases of companies, particularly small and medium-sized companies, which want to be regulated. Unfortunately, most of them will not be able to enter. I would ask that an effort be made within these ten days to check as many as possible, but by ensuring that no suspicions are raised about anything, that it be strictly in order that these companies have been set up chronologically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mrs Valavani, too. The rapporteurs have the floor for secondary. I would ask you very much to keep the time of dentistry up to seven minutes. Mrs. Catherine Papanatsiou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although we have debated the bill today, it is important in terms of its social usefulness for specific categories of people. They are the people who have been most looted by tax regulations and regulations, for which the gentlemen of former co-population and now opposition are now self-criticizing. But it does not cease to be the work of their own days. Although the previous government had all the time to make the necessary corrections and with the experience it had from last year, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, it brought the hot potato to the government, because it knew that it would not remain a government much longer. People don't believe you anymore. He knows that farmers' taxation from the first euro has been legislated by you, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK. He knows very well that the tax on subsidies is not our creation, because farmers who kept books before 2014 were obliged to include in their income and subsidies. As the Minister said, with regard to the taxation of subsidies for farmers taxed by the objective method, according to the Net Agricultural Income Tables, the place where net agricultural income was calculated included subsidies and production compensation. I am presenting for the Minutes of this House a specific provision of the Ministry of Finance since November 1997. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Did the previous parliamentary term Members of the then co-population tabled amendments on the non-taxation of subsidies which the government did not accept for discussion? We tried to give a breath to the small farmer, with the EUR 12 000 tax on subsidies. Of course farmers who receive higher subsidies also benefit from this amount. Be sure, however, when we bring our own tax bill into discussion, we will be able to be fairer and more proportionate. We will help and support the farmer. We believe in its role, which is essential to the country's productive reconstruction. For five months, everything has been hanging from negotiating, in every conversation, at every point of everyday life. Once the government has taken over, a sudden panic has fallen into the media and the interests they express within the country, always in harmony with what our partners say abroad. It is the first time, however, that a government does not sit calmly, is not blackmailed, it does not retreat. Since 20 February, there has been a systematic effort of economic suffocation in the country. The aim is to bend the new government, forcing it to reach an agreement with real measures, continuing with austerity, showing that SYRIZA is one of the same and by revoking the Prime Minister's words of originality and respect for the election commitments. On the other hand, the threat is that if the government does not comply with the creditors' requirements, Greece will be punished exemplarily for its choice to challenge austerity through the choice of a left-wing government. This will be the example of avoidance and by the method of left-hand parentheses everything will be returned to the normal plan, i.e. measures, instalments, loans and all the following. The road from the beginning was not easy. The decision to clash with these policies we knew it would lead to an unspeakable war. However, this government is from another ship - German economist Zin mentioned this too - and has reached the negotiating point where he wanted, at the highest political level. [[SM]] [[GA]] The problem is political and the solution, respectively, will be political, not just economic. On the way, then, which opened the first steps of the new government, we are called upon to continue. The reintroduction of labour rights and the reverse redistribution of this country's wealth are the first in our list. The people expect SYRIZA not to back off, to defend the interests of many. The dignity of this people is a one-way road. It's not a matter of red lines. It is a matter of class-biased political choice. And we won't get back to extortion or be afraid. We have presented our proposals. They're designed, they're realistic. We will not sign any agreement. We will sign an agreement that will reposition the country as an equal partner and not as an animal. It was heard by colleagues yesterday in relation to the article in the bill on strengthening the competitiveness of Greek businesses to similar Community enterprises, that we allegedly cover the capital, thus showing who our policy works for. Take note, ladies and gentlemen, that our aim was, is, is, and remains, the dignity of this people, the restoration of normality in this country's society and economy and the safeguarding of jobs while developing it for the benefit of many and the workers. So we support the Greek businesses, because they will carry the jobs, because at some point you must choose a side. What should we do? Should we hand it all over the big multinational business? We prefer to strengthen and stimulate the domestic economy and the market by ensuring jobs. Yesterday, honourable Members of the New Democracy, it bothered you what the channel of the Parliament was showing or rather the subject and what was being heard in the Committee on Truth. It is at least outrageous and hypocritical to cut off for the smooth and orderly functioning of procedures. The reality, then, may not like all colleagues in the Opposition. But the reality tells us that a Greek government is first presented that sets the limits of negotiation, and this may still not like some of the institutions. This is how we will proceed, with a view to reversing the situation, which has been created in recent years. We will continue to legislate in favour of the weak, in favour of the poor, in favour of the world of work, and for them we will continue to negotiate. For us the needs of society will no longer be defined by the economy, but the economy will go hand in hand with the needs of society with multiple benefits for both of us, with multiple benefits for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiou. The rapporteur, Mr Vésiropoulos, has the floor for up to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is natural that today's and yesterday's debate on the bill has overshadowed everyone's concern about developments in the agreement with lenders and the country's smooth and uninterrupted funding. As far as the bill is concerned, I believe that Article 3 is rightly withdrawn, which should be recast in order not to be considered to photograph certain companies. On the contrary, the measures aimed at increasing the competitiveness of our industry must be directed at all businesses. It is a given fact that there must be cooperation and dialogue on issues related to changes aimed at strengthening the concept of tax justice. One of these is the gradual abolition of documents and the taxation of all on the basis of their actual income. We are here to put forward proposals and the government must take advantage of that. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear concern among the citizens about the future of the country. It is also obvious that the government's anxiety to manage the political cost of disagreement with the institutions, but also not to disrupt intra-governmental balances. This anguish, however, does not concern anyone when the future of the country is at stake. [[AR]] [[SM]] Citizens need to know the truth. It's time you told the truth. Eight valuable months were lost with the threat of elections and ultimately the challenge of elections, but also the five-month supposed negotiation, which substantially aggravated the climate in the economy, as well as the country's position. We could have closed the evaluation with interventions of less than EUR 1 billion and then proceeded with an agreement on the preventive support line that would allow the country to come out of the market with complete security. Instead of all this, we are talking today about eight billion euros for the next two years, while the prospect of providing a preventive support line has left the table, beyond the fact that the country cannot make use of the measure of quantitative relaxation, which would provide us with valuable liquidity. I could quote a series of events that confirm the government's unreliable words and works, a series of events that demonstrate and confirm that the government has entered into negotiations with the institutions without a plan and clearly unprepared. Your own executives now admit two things: First, the famous mail Hardouvelis is infinitely milder in its content than in the context that has been negotiated today. Secondly, the agreement of 20 February was an agreement without any objection and without any content. Each agreement must have a promotional dimension. The agreement of 20 February, as you did, what really helped to extend the testimony of suffocation to the Greek economy? Ladies and gentlemen, the government must tell the citizens the truth, it must admit that the illusions it has had for three years and also for election have collapsed. You are fortified behind the position that you are not going to take measures that will lead to a recession. And yet, you're going forward, because you just don't want to reduce the state. Your ideas are an obstacle to structural change and reform. And you come up with a solution to taxation on the real economy and, above all, to businesses. You are proposing to abolish taxation in enterprises from 26% to 29%. But count on how many businesses they will not be able to cope with and will be closed down. And along with this to calculate and how many young unemployed will be added. You propose extraordinary taxation on the profits of businesses. Obviously none of you know that part of the profits of companies either reinvests in the company itself or is being used for investment, which will obviously not be done in this case, beyond the fact that you will force many companies to move their homes abroad. Increases in VAT will surely affect the competitiveness of Greek products and services, reduce demand and limit the purchasing capacity of citizens. If these are fundamental measures, then what are they? For the last five months, you have been delaying the concession - utilization of the fourteen regional airports, while the tender was completed and the price was very high, as Mr Tsipras admitted. And yet for you it takes precedence to manage the issue of the concession of regional airports within you. Because some of your executives would come out and say in an election that they'll declare the contest void and now they won't know where to hide when you sign the contract. So he invented the renegotiation, to golden them up the pill and to swallow more easily the use of the fourteen regional airports. In the meantime, however, the situation in the fourteen regional airports is marginal, they do not have to take up nor consumables, and there are debts in cleaning workshops and workers in the Civil Aviation Service. You have sought alternative ways of funding. Some fantasized alliances with Russia and China. Go out and tell the truth, go out and say that our country for China is only useful as a member of the European Union to invest here and use our ports and infrastructure as a gateway to its products in Europe. It is time to abandon the ideas that are turning us back into the past and have absolutely nothing to do with the present and the future. All those who speak of a break have not calculated the consequences. Those who see the management of this difficult, indeed, situation in terms of party confirmation and survival are given that they offer bad services in the country. You must now move on the path of national understanding. On the contrary, you have an Opposition that is in the mood to support every reform effort and to put back on the hard. [[CB]] [[4AR]] Our government did not have that advantage. On the contrary, we had an opposition that was provoking populism and sterile denial. We call on you to realise your responsibilities towards the country and the citizens. I would also like, Minister, to place myself on the taxation of agricultural aid. You said that you read Article 21 very well, but only the top, what says that profits from business are considered the total revenue from business transactions after deduction of business expenses, etc. You were right to say so, but you did not say about the special reference that is being made immediately afterwards. And what does it say? ‘Specificly for determining income from a rural business activity on income from business transactions including income from agricultural production’. The report says 'only from the production of agricultural products'! That says everything, it's clear. You said half the truth about Article 21. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Vésiropoulos. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to applaud the sensitivity you have shown when you told Mr Gregorako that he should not respond to people who are not present, when Mr Nicholas, also spokesman of the Annells, when he sprayed our parliamentary representative, Mrs Lyberakis. Ladies and gentlemen, you are part of the problem. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] They don't like to be called 'neutral right', so I said to them 'extreme centre', maybe that's better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u155	We're not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u156	No, you are not, you are not, so I say 'a extreme centre'. But you are part of the problem and you will fail, unfortunately at a great cost to the Greek people. What's your tragic situation? Unfortunately you were born late. All these years in Transmigration others ruled with your own ideas and money. Now this time is over, there's no money to rule as you'd like. So now that there is no money, the country, the political system, it cannot share a wide range of prosperity in the world. It can only be miserable and what people are asking of the political system today and especially the rulers are to share it with justice. You don't know how to do this. And those who want the drachma, that's what they're actually looking for, those who push you to that, to find the printery to get Monopoly's fake money, to share it with the world, if they're making fun of him. Ladies and gentlemen of the Congress, Mr Juncker described you as "training doctors". He was diligent. Do you know what we've seen all the years of We are watching a sirial like the "Extensive" with Clooney, for whoever has watched it. We've got fake sick, fake doctors, fake nurses, fake accidents, blood flowing isn't real, and we're making it right, and all night long it's going well. That's what we've had for all the decades of He came in 2010 and showed up real sick and the doctors are actors, nurses, drugs no longer exist and we didn't know what to do. They were going to see, to see the script again, to say the words of the previous governments and the Greek people, they understood that we had real sick and could not do it well. And that's why he kicked out the last T-shirt and told them to leave. And you're here. And you don't even have a degree in hypocritical. Not even a hypocritical degree! You're not at least an actor! This is unfortunately the situation we are in today. [[PE]] [[CB]] I had to reply the other day to an article by the Italian Professor Giavazzi at the Financial Times, which said that the Greeks choose poverty: "Let them, though. What happened? What can we do? They do not know what, they cannot be Europeans, they actually belong to other continents. Let them in their misery, that's what they choose." I did, of course, reply with the national and patriotic arguments, as I think someone from the government, who did not do so. But I wonder: Is it true? Do you actually choose, do you prefer misery and poverty to join or stay as an equal member of the European family? Do you want poverty for 80% of the Greek people? Is that what you're pursuing? Because you're doing it. I read in "Kathimerini" an article about the Greek schools in Germany, which put a lid on them. Luceto, because they do not pay the rents and the Greeks of Germany are faced with this situation. I'm ashamed of myself as a Greek politician! Today the Financial Times are wondering about the plan, about the government's game. Playing in the sense of the "theory of games". They give four odds: One, you bluff and you think you'll win. Two, you bluff, and you just realized you were doing wrong calculations. Three, the issue is only internal correlations and power. Four, you really want to take us to the drachma. A little bit of everything, I'm sure. Some powerful people have bet - and powerful people who have financed your party and your campaigns and powerful abroad - on the drachma and are pushing you with very good advice - I am sure - unselfish otherwise. With them the naives and useful stupid ideologists who really believe that drachma will be a better solution. The first, that you bluff and think you're going to win, was especially right at the beginning. This 'no, it will not allow Europe to fall apart for 1 or 2 billion'. Even, perhaps, you do. The two are obvious, too. The country's already gone bankrupt. Be careful, because the communication channels with abroad have already stopped. Wait on your headphone - so the political negotiating team told us yesterday - and be ready to negotiate. The call hasn't come yet. Are he going to be summoned by our Prime Minister on Friday or during the weekend for an extraordinary session to tell him the news? Will he have one last chance to save victory from the teeth of defeat? Maybe. If he uses all his personal power and trust reserve he still has, he might get something for the debt, if he implements the whole package, the so-called "Yunker". Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 January you took the hopes of the world. In and out of Europe, they hoped you would finally put them in the interests. Then came fear. Are you blind ideologists, any politicians unarmed in your rhetoric? These two months ago, not now. Now we're in pity. Sorry about the humanitarian crisis, about the drug and food issues that may exist, regretting the irresponsibility and inability of your government, when islands are excluded for two whole months and hopefully you will make a smooth transition to the euro. You've got a shot too. We read it in 'Iskra'. Statement of banks and such things. Let me see the Left Government pulling out selfishness and weapons on the road and let me die!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u157	What are these, Mr. Theochari?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u158	From trainee patients you were going to die now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, you have made our country here and made our country feel sorry for it. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u160	In five months we've caught up with everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u161	You made it in five months, yes. You're talking about polling. You are not well told by those who analyse them. There has never been a government that so quickly loses its support, support unprecedented. You're a minority in every policy and any bill you bring. In the polls, they show you like a giant with clay legs. All the serious pollsters are waiting for the legend that will lead to a change of scenery. [[RG]] [[PE]] For the Greek people - and yesterday in a poll we saw it - prefers euros, even with sacrifices, even with great sacrifices, instead of memorials and drachmas, as they will come and live. If you take us to the fourth option, if you take us ideologically willingly or wrongly to the drachma, you coupe. You will bring authoritarianism and you will actually destroy democracy, the opposite of what you say. Ignore this and you will see the anger of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Mr. Bardalis Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor mainly to make two comments on our position on the articles, but you will allow me to make two comments. First of all, some colleagues yesterday, during the debate on the principle, have wondered how it is possible to vote 'ARTON' in principle in such a bill and have said that they do not understand us. I would say that it is more honest to say 'I disagree about this or the other reason with the Communist Party of Greece, with its specific attitude'. But I do not understand this 'we do not understand your position'. I should like to make it clear, then, once again that we are voting 'PARS' in principle, because, despite the fact that the draft law deals with certain extreme cases, it reduces certain categories of workers and farmers, but overall it does not change the anti-grassroots form of taxation at the expense of workers and the public bodies. And not only that, but through the agreement, as we have said in the protology, with the new memorandum you are about to sign, you will also load new burdens on the backs of the people's family. In the debate yesterday and today, a matter has been dominated. We have all witnessed an attempt to finally see what is worse: e-mail Hardouvelis or the government's proposal to the Troika, that of the forty-seven pages plus the addition you have made? I would say that such a confrontation on this issue is convenient, mainly propaganda. Don't you think that both of them are anti-grassy and anti-grassy? Why do you ask what to do, to accept what we are told by the partners? Why don't you ask yourself? Should not rights and conquests of workers who have been lost in the last five years be taken back? So there's no good in this place for the people, for the people's family? Always the worst and we have to choose the smallest evil? Is that what you're keeping us? The worst, dear fellow Members and colleagues, is that you are continuing the policy of the previous governments from where they left it and you are sadly putting your own lira. Who? You who wouldn't leave stone on the rock. That's the problem. You tell us that the people are part of it and supports you. You even called on this Step to exploit the call on the Internet. Going on the road to the Constitution, the people protest why, dear fellow Members and colleagues? Why is all law enforcement left? To support the government's negotiating tactics? Why are all the anti-grass measures left? Why don't you get one back? Why do you add more than above? Why are you negotiating hard to make more money so that growth can come? Of course, who makes growth is well known, so where this money is going to go, to some extent, is well known. Only you identify this capitalist development by the fact that there can also be a benefit for workers and the populace. Well, these days, once throwing a big bone into the worker, have passed. [[FT]] [[RG]] Because the more capitalism develops, the more it rots. And in any case the boot from the rot has not reached your nostrils, but the unemployed see them next door, poverty and misery. In our opinion, therefore, the people have no choice but to continue trying to restructure the working people's movement, to move it properly towards the real opponent, which is the action of the business groups and the imperialist organisations that support this action, in order to ensure their maximum profitability. In relation to our position in the articles of this draft law, in principle in Article 1, paragraph 1 is in a positive direction, namely the non-implementation of taxes on income such as interest on deposits, based on the imputed income of the Greeks. We could vote in favour of this if it were limited to it. In paragraph 2, we have made concrete criticism. With Article 1(2), there may be a slight relief to some unemployed people, since 26% of those who are currently taxed will be taxed with 22%, but, in our view, this is not a question. The issue is the abolition of the tax on the unemployed, which you are not doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u164	They're not taxed at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u165	It's unnecessarily unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u166	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u167	It's not wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u168	It's wrong. The 22% where did you find it? Because under 9,500 are not taxed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u169	It's 0%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u170	I don't have the law next to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u171	22%...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u172	It's unnecessarily unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u173	It's a omission. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u174	All right, we'll clarify it. With paragraph 5, although some concepts are clarified in a positive way, but in no case is it about workers' demands, what you regulate is a drop in the ocean. As a whole, in Article 1, we are voting on 'APPROVAL'. In Article 2, you are to exempt Greek companies from VAT. Our criticism is also known in my prototype. You tell us that you are doing so because you believe in growth and that it will benefit workers. Previous people what did they do? That's exactly what they did. They believed capitalist development. You don't do anything special.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u175	I'm sorry, if you'll excuse me, we won't relieve them. These projects are free because VAT is repaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u176	I've heard of you. We've understood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u177	I mean, it's budgetaryly neutral...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u178	This year he'd wait, that's what you're doing. Understood. What do you say in your own report? Why are you doing this? You yourself say what I say to you, that's why you do it. This is where we vote against...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u179	We don't relieve them, that's what I'm telling you. They're free.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u180	Yeah, you don't get rid of them. That's why you're doing it. We're specific. We are voting against Article 2 here. Article 3 has been withdrawn. In the new Article 3, we agree. It is about exempting money donations to the relatives of the missing and the dead of Norman Atlantic. We are going to vote 'HER'. In Articles 5 and 6, we shall vote 'APPROVAL'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. The reason is the Special Buyer from the ANELs, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos. Mr. Kutsuko, you obviously want to talk after the speech. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u182	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u183	You'll talk later. I'm asking, let's schedule the time. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen - not to abuse anyone's time - I will make some comments and I will give some information in the Minutes and I would like some people to see them, in relation to what happened and whether we were the country - even though we received them. Yesterday in the Committee on Audit, which was Mr Roumeliotis, whom we were all watching, he was revealed with evidence rather than with conspiracy thoughts, ideas or articles, I would say a conspiracy against Greece. The conspiracy was planned. Mr. Papandreou, Mr. Papaconstantinou along with Mr. Provopoulou and other Greek politicians of the time had contacts and warnings from the International Monetary Fund not to carry out and not to call the International Monetary Fund itself in Greece. [[LA]] [[FT]] However, they have violated the admonitions and haunted, costly reactions of Mr Stro Khan and other members of the International Monetary Fund, thereby destroying the country. I will mention another point which I have presented to the Commission, because there is a great misunderstanding in that country. We hear that the Greek insurance funds, the Greek banks and the German and French banks have not been cut. That's not exactly the way it is. The banks, which did not get tired, which held Greek bonds - i.e. Greek government bonds - before entering the Memorandum in 2010, with elements of the International Monetary Fund, Barclays Capital and Credit Suisse, which I personally presented - because they did not have - yesterday in the House are France 54 billion, Germany 36 billion, Italy 26 billion, Belgium 19 billion, the Netherlands 20 billion, Luxembourg 20 billion, Great Britain 12 billion, Austria 8 billion. All that makes us $192 billion. I'm talking to dollars. Our debt at the same time was $380 billion. I haven't put Greece in. Foreign banks held 50% of Greek debt. It is neither 50 billion nor 60 billion nor 70 billion that we hear. It's 192 billion dollars. These Greek bonds were held by the banks of the above-mentioned States, the pension funds of the above-mentioned States, as well as the mutual funds and various investment houses of the above-mentioned States. Greece had 92 billion of which were 55 billion in banks and 38 billion in insurance funds. I testify, you'll do the deeds. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] That's why we're pulling all of what we're doing here today. That is, we have gathered five years later, criticised - as I said yesterday - the correction of all the wrong measures of forced foreign law, which has been imposed on us for the last five years by fax, by e-mail, by extortion, milk, ATM, with health papers and all that we have heard. That's the truth. They didn't want to spend $192 billion of Greek bonds, they put us in the International Monetary Fund, and then we came in and "we" the Greek insurance funds and the Greek banks. I will give you the full analysis of what we "paid" from the Greek banks, to know exactly what the damage is, per bank. I'm not talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u185	But they got rid of these.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u186	Sure. That's what got rid of. The time will come to the Committee of Inquiry into the Memorandum I will also give the analysis of Goldman Sachs, which says what period he has unloaded which country, which country, what bank, how much. He got rid of more than 60% of the 192 billion, remained much less, and even 'tired'. Attention, the private people did not come to'saving'. The Hold Outs, which we say, are the ones who have not been cut off, we are still paying them. Because they did not catch the quota to put together the collective action clauses - the CACs at any rate - to get from 75% or more and to go to 92 participation, at 206, to 'tire' the 106 nominal value - I do not do the actions of Mr Venizelos now, who learned financially under Constitutional law! - all this was done to get new loans of 118 billion. "We cut" 106 nominally, 86% Greek bonds with Greek banks, Greek insurance funds, our universities. In other words, because the outsides did not participate, in order to catch up to the clauses and the 75% plus 1 quota to go to 92, we had to put our own funds - that was the disaster - to keep them from working. They come today and tell us that 'we are giving you no dose'. And the sympathetic Mr Theocharis, who has made a materially responsible statement, must at some point tell us why Mr Samaras resigned him. There were many omissions at the time, we read them and heard them. At some point he'll have to tell us why he left and where he went and why that's gone. I'm going to file the next item, which everyone has, but I want it to be in the Minutes. From August 2004 until May 2015 we have given another EUR 17 billion in interest, debt, swaps, bonds and debts that are not in a moratorium, because not all of them are in a moratorium as we hear lies, but they will come one - one. It's the whole list. We've given out of our blood of 17.5 billion. Creditors gave us a dose in 2014 that was in debt since 2013. So the previous government, the extremely "successful" with the "blessed" memorandum, which was "blessed" for everyone, failed to close any deal, no evaluation, take any dose of 2014 and comes today to judge us whether or not we will give the farmers the transfer, whether we will build something with HISBIA and whether we will go as an emergency with the bill, since we have to save the world from their own mistakes. They're purely their own mistakes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] [[PM]] [[LA]] Country - because of us now? Is this government a pariah country? It's not personal. I'll testify this one more time. The largest 'black' economy in Europe - I repeat - is Italy with EUR 420 billion black economy, an official 'black' economy and a second Germany with EUR 399 billion black economy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Two and a half Greek GDP is "black" by the Germans and they lose 160 billion tax revenues from the "black" economy they do not. These people who got away... Yesterday I made some other conclusions - and Mr Ignatiu's book helped greatly - that there was a Mr Ackerman's plan, EUR 25 billion. private individuals in January 2010, proposal. He did not accept Mr. Vittman, who was advisor to Mrs. Merkel and now President of Butemunk. He did not accept a plan to give us the 25 billion, because the 25 we could draw, as we know, and from the markets with a little increased interest rate, we would cover in January half the year 2010 and we would not need memos. There have been secret meetings. They didn't want to. The International Monetary Fund has destroyed all the laws, entered a loan for which we are looking for loan contracts - to give us ECU 30 billion. In our first loan relationship, circumventing the basic terms which were? That it must be sustainable for this country and I to go back to my board, that Mr Stros - Khan say that 'I will take it from them sometime here, because otherwise I will have a problem because I give them the loan'. They ruined it. Why? I would remind you - and I will close - that, as Mr Ignatiu reveals, Mr Sarkozy, who also wants to change the government with Mr Schultz - we have gone crazy in the asshole in the last few days and forgive me the style - to give to Mr Papandreou - and it has been recorded - he has blackmailed him to take French weapons, renewables and digital agenda contracts, to give Mr Papandreou, the friend of Greece! I am presenting the latest BNP table here, which was from the banks with the largest debts in Greek and shows exactly - whoever wants to read it, not to explain it and I tire you - how we turned EUR 203 billion. in English law and we turned it over to the taxpayers while they were on the markets and they were in Europe. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I close by saying that this state has made this a failure by previous governments, failed state. It's an international terminology. We were a state - even though we are no longer a state - a state of parity. We are a state that makes decisions on its own, fights, gives proposals, waits for war, and that is our difference. We don't expect a crucifix or we're not around the corner to hit us by the turtle teacher in our hand because we were bad kids. I hope that we shall all be prudent and help the government to go further, because there is no alternative but to bring growth to this country, because in order for growth to come, we must support the government to bring forward the proposal, to take the Yunker package and to restructure the debt and see how it needs to be restructured and how it can be restructured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much Mr. Kammenos. Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos, PASOK Special Buyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u188	Madam President, to earn time, I will speak from my seat. [[Enter the text of the bill]] I know you are in a hurry because you have the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and I hope the Prime Minister will tell at least the parliamentary group the whole truth about the negotiation, because we now know half the truth. We know what the representative and representative of Mr Juncker said yesterday about what the so-called 'Institutions' have called for. I said yesterday in my speech that it is important for Mr Tsipras to present all the correspondence and exchange of mail - because it is no longer possible by post for us to exchange views - on what the Greek Government has successively proposed, so that we can assess it. It is not the aim of this assessment to make early criticisms of the government, but to contribute with a sense of national responsibility and understanding, as Mrs Gennamas told the Prime Minister today, to finding a solution that will keep the country alive. We will take responsibility, as we took it in very difficult times and pay it because we were tested under falsehood and promises. It is a case that has tested the relationship between democracy and truth and which, of course, the SYRIZA colleagues and the Prime Minister themselves will find before them. (IT) [[PM]] Because it was only the national strategy, negotiating within the euro area. This will prove very soon, because we believe that Mr. Tsipras personally wants Greece to remain within the eurozone, regardless of the mistakes he has made in the negotiation that we account for and when the time comes, we will see them again here in relation to the content of the agreement, which we want to be sustainable and have a perspective. To sum up the debate on the bill, I cannot but stand by the diversion motion made by Mr. Friend, referring to Mr. Romeliotis's position yesterday and to the retreat of criminal responsibility. And I repeat that Mr. Friend did it! Because Mr Kammenos has already done so, but I do not care what they say about the theory of conspiracy that moves their political decisions, the criminals and the persecutors. I am interested in Mr. Friend, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Mr Philie, if this distraction is about rallying the audience in the face of the difficult decisions you will make as a policy move, I would like to acknowledge that, despite the fact that I would like to note that you are enjoying the so-called willing staff, willing at every time in power and encouraged indeed, which, after being favored, they are denounced. And not to tell you any more and not to eat the time, to ask Mr. Constantopoulos, whom you had a prosecutor as a coalition in the Koskonta case, to tell you more. I'm stopping here. But I consider it dangerous that these logics of criminal persecution should be recovered in the face of the time of responsibility and the truth and of national understanding. That's my answer. We won't be watching you. Also, as far as the substance of tax provisions is concerned, I was impressed by the efforts made by many colleagues from the SYRIZA and the parliamentary representative to say that these provisions are provisions that bring equality and justice, while we have all recognised that they address some issues of extreme application. Because equality and justice must change the whole tax system. This initiative - which I said yesterday in my speech - is one of the governments, which has, up to now, been mobilising both legislative and urgent legislation. But a theory, a philosophy and a proposal for a global change that has a responsibility to bring it, has not presented it to us. And since Greece is going well and staying alive, this is the first responsibility of Mrs Valavani, who said again today that they are considering changes in the Code of Income Tax. But we are talking about a stable tax system that we started in 2010 with the Dialogue Committee that SYRIZA did not participate in at the time, but we were unable to do, because we were taken ball. So you are a new government and you have a responsibility to do so. Nor have you given us, Minister, to slowly come to the bill - a convincing explanation for the withdrawal of Article 3. I spoke yesterday about how suspicious provisions are embodied when we legislate under urgent procedures. If we had called GSEW, for example, he would have told us what the application for energy costs is. We saw posters later that this photo was related to a specific businessman who has taken a public business previously and now wanted to obtain some privileges. Mr. Lafazanis didn't come here to explain what he's going to do. He had his signature on it. So it is good to protect all of us, because we too may fall into mistakes, not to understand it, and much more so when you say that you are writing the rules yourself. [[BS]] AT That's more dangerous, because he's going to say you didn't understand. I don't accept that you've been dictated. So to legislate in the right process and avoid such mistakes. Then I come to the unprecedented. You claim in a note that you have been given staff representatives that the subsidies were taxed. I would therefore refer you to Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure. In this respect, I should like to point out that, in the light of the above considerations, it is important to note that the Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women as regards access to employment, and on the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. For the first time, you have legislated on taxation - even - by taxing 12 000. If you want us to be honest, tell us whether you have to pay a tax on tens of thousands of subsidies by drinking them on the fool's health, because we know some of the things that have happened in the past. But to do it frankly and not by trying to make fun of the world, because so far farm subsidies have been tax-free. To finish, Madam President, I have explained why we are going to vote on the bill at first and after the removal of Article 3 and the articles, so that I do not go far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. In principle, the debate on the articles and the whole draft law ‘Amendment of the provisions of the Code on Income Tax and other Provisions’ is hereby concluded. I'll ask one - one of the parties. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u190	SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u192	The New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u194	Golden Dawn is missing. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u196	The JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u197	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u198	The Annells?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u200	PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u202	Therefore, the draft law ‘Amendment of Code of Income Tax and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u203	SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u205	The New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u207	Golden Dawn is missing. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u209	The JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u211	The Annells?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u213	PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u215	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u216	SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u218	The New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u220	Golden Dawn is missing. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u222	The JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u223	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u224	The Annells?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u226	PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u228	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 3 shall be withdrawn. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u229	SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u231	The New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u233	Golden Dawn is missing. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u235	The JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u237	The Annells?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u239	PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u241	Article 4 has therefore been accepted as unanimously. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u242	SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u244	The New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u246	Golden Dawn is missing. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u248	The JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u250	The Annells?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u252	PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u254	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u255	SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u257	The New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u259	Golden Dawn is missing. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u261	The JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u262	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u263	The Annells?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u265	PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u267	Article 6 has therefore been accepted as majority. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill and the House is asking whether it is acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u268	Therefore, the hotel article was accepted by unanimity. Consequently, the draft ‘Amendment of Code of Income Tax and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and by a majority. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u269	Does this House accept the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u270	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u271	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendment of the Code of Income Tax and other Provisions’ was accepted in principle, in its entirety and in its entirety by a majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-16-S1-commons.u273	With Parliament's consent at 14: 49' the sitting on Thursday 18 June 2015 at 09: 30' is closed on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) a statement of petitions and b) a debate on topical and urgent questions.
