ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that we have high attractions to Parliament! I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, fifty-five students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Chania. The House welcomes them. We wish you good progress, health and a good struggle for our country. Be well! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister of Pierre, Zesi Zannas, to announce the petitions to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u2	MEP Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou submitted a report to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the letter from the Workers' Association of Port Volos, which restores the issue of the non-payment of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work for the first half of 2014, since there was no provision for a joint Ministerial Decision on the retroactive effect of payment from 1-1-2014. The letter is attached. MEP George Panjas filed a petition to the Minister of State on the subject: ‘Proposal to amend existing analogue TV transmissions to digital DVB - T’. The letter proposes the modification of the existing analogue process of the "ERT SA" to digital and, on the one hand, highlights the request of the fixed-term contractors, who worked in the body and lost their work on 11-6-2013, in order to provide the draft law for the ERT to be included in the staff of the new entity. Deputy Prime Minister Zeris Xanna submitted a report to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: "The Pierre Police Officers' Association is calling for the resolution of problems that police officers of the Pierre Police Department employ." The letter is attached. Deputy Magnesia Mr Alexandros Micopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the matter of abolishing increases in insurance contributions to the EBRD - CSMEDA. Parliamentary Magnesia Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou sends a letter from TEI Magnesia on 117/2015 of the Council of State, Section I, rejecting the appeal of the Technical Chamber of Greece against the increases in contributions of the persons insured in EFFA - TSMETE: ‘The imposition of huge increases in the payment of insurance contributions by graduate engineers, as well as the mandatory increase in a category for EAFRD-CSF members, are legislative arrangements that exacerbate the already difficult position of engineers and lead them to forced removal from the TEF due to the failure to pay their contributions’. Report by Mr Danas Jekas - Kostopoulou to the Minister for Finance, on the abolition of the Land Administration of Magnesia: "According to the Dr. the Office of the Ministry of Finance, which entered into force on 29 October 2014, the real estate services are practically abolished and, in accordance with Articles 105 and 106 of the Presidential Decree, the Regional Administrations of the Public Property and the Public Property Offices are established. This new structure is a clear deterioration in the protection of public property, it is totally centralized, while it creates great problems in the service of citizens, a great deal of bureaucracy and a slowdown in the handling of cases, as well as the dismantling of resources. Especially for the Magnesia Prefecture, which has an extensive coastline, the abolition of the Land Office will have dramatic consequences for the public interest." Report by Ms. Ioannis Vroutsis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion, on the risk of collapse of the southern gate of the Medieval Castle of Kimolos. Report by Mr Ioannis Vroutsi, Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the restoration of damage to the port of Aegiali Amorgos. Report by MP Kastoria Maria Antonios to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr Panagiotis Lafazani, on the subject: "Problems relating to the status of issuing water permits in the Regional Unit of Kastoria". The letter of the President of the "Agricultural Society of Fruit and Vegetables of Kastoria S.A." expressing the concern of the agricultural sector in the Regional Section of Kastoria regarding the status and procedure for issuing authorisations for water use and presenting the relevant proposals for resolution of the problems concerned: "Please take the appropriate action.". Report by Mr Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion, on the letter from the Professional-Scientific Association of Engineering Technology, which is attached to it and which refers to the reintroduction of joint engineering arrangements. As stated in the letter: ‘The multi-legislative project for education includes provisions which satisfy well-known requests from the TEI and the polytechnics and in particular that the five-year programmes of multi-technical and rural schools with masters will be equal and that there will be a distinction between the technical responsibility of engineers according to the years and the type of study.’ Report by MP Heraklion Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the letter from the Association of Photovoltaic Companies, attached to the problems faced by the industry and submitting proposals for their resolution: "The relevant Ministerial Decision on Self Generation does not allow the photovoltaic system to be installed elsewhere than that of consumption. Thus, there are several cases of professional and public bodies that cannot actually make use of net metering, for example, hotels, water pumps, sewerage, etc., and the possibility of virtual net metering, i.e. the correlation and offsetting of a consumption of PV that is not in the place where this consumption takes place. For this reason, it is proposed to amend paragraph 1, namely to provide reasonable compensation for PVs per power category, based on the new Guidelines and State aid in the fields of the environment and energy.’. Report by MP Heraklion Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs. The letter of the Association of Foreign Language Centers for Languages of Heraklion, Crete, which refers to the requirement of insurance and tax information for the issue, update of permits for the establishment and operation of foreign Language Centres: "The above requirement, which does not apply to any other sector, is in the era of the economic crisis very serious embroidery, which is selectively applicable to our industry. It is known that tax and insurance matters and the settlement of any outstanding claims, settlements and penalties are provided for in the relevant provisions of the relevant Ministries.’; Report by MP Heraklion Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of the Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the letter of Mayor Faistos, attached to the economic operation of the municipality and to the approval of the financial year 2015 of the Municipality of Faist Regional Unit of Heraklion Crete. As stated in the letter: ‘Our municipality travels the third month in a row of non-economic operations and absolute difficulties in the execution of any economic operation other than payroll. The reason is the non-approval of the 2015 budget by the decentralised administration of Crete. We tell you that, under the above conditions, we are unable to serve the institution of primary local government, but neither can the State function in accordance with the constitutional frameworks laid down and ask the Ministry to proceed directly with the appropriate actions.’ Report by MP Ioannina Mr Konstantinos Tasulas to the Minister of National Defence, on the submission of a document by the Bar Association of Ioannina on the abolition of the Military Court, the Naval Court and the Ioannina Air Force. Report by MP Rethymno Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the payment of an exceptional school heating allowance and an equal rate of heating allowance for the citizens of the mountainous municipalities of Crete with Zone I in force in northern Greece. Report by Congressman Lassithi Mr Ioannis Placiotakis to the Minister of Finance and to the Deputy Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Evangelos Apostou, on the subject: "The need to take measures to ensure the survival of the early horticultural sector. A letter from S.A. Ierapetra is attached and I ask you for an update on the subject and your actions." Report by the MP, Heraklion, Mr Spiros Dannelis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the need to maintain the ferry routes between Santorini and Crete. A memorandum is sent, as well as an open letter from the Santorini Cretan Association called "TO ARCADI", regarding the problems that the residents of Santorini have to face since the planned interruption of the already limited subsidized routes between Crete and Santorini. Report by MP Heraklion Mr Spiros Dannellis to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the request for credit for the flood protection of the Municipality of Malevizio. A document by Mr. Mayor Maleviziou, requesting credit for the flood protection of the Municipality of Malevizio, is being sent. Report by MP II Piraeus Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the request from the abandoned seamen of the passenger ferry "PANAYIA TOW". Reference is made to the letter from the abandoned seafarers of the passenger ferry "PANAGIA TOW" of the ferry company "VENTOURIS LINES", Evangelos Ventouri. This letter mentions the problem arising from the crew of the passenger ferry “PANAGIA TOW”, which makes a work prejudicial from 27-2-2015 and has left the barren Kythera – Antikythera – Kissamos line, because the shipping company owes wages to the crew that arrives in all ten months, and the crew feed and feed have recently been stopped. The above mentioned letter of crew of seafarers is attached. Report by Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, on the request from the ESDP concerning the placing of undertakings in the manufacture of spirituous beverages in the procedure for the regulation of VAT debts and excise duty on customs. A letter of the Board of Directors of the Association of Greek Distillates and Alcoholous Drinks is lodged requesting the companies of the alcoholic beverages industry to be subject to the procedure for the regulation of VAT debts and excise duty on customs. The PSC argues that the payment of excise duty and VAT to customs cannot be arrears in order to be subject to the favourable arrangements for late payment to the tax administration because, in view of the current regime, this debt is covered by a guarantee letter. Report of the Deputy Law of Attica Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the tolls of the Olympian Road. There is a request from the Mayor of Megarons concerning the reduction of the tolls of the “OLYMPIA DUE”. Report by MP Heraklion Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the financial operation of - budget year 2015 of the Municipality of Faist Regional Unit of Heraklion Crete. Report by Congressman Heraklion Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reintroduction of the six-hour working hours for the teaching staff of children's stations. Report by Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, MP for Heraklion, to the Ministries of Finance, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the charges for car rental: "We are aware of the financial impossibility of car rental to meet operating costs and in general the costs that endogenous and exogenous factors shape its existence. The Panhellenic Federation considers that the rental car should not be governed by the rules of the IX Passengers, but should be given separate care as a tool, which may be part of the IX, but should not be a fixed asset of the tourist company for professional use.’ MEP Achaias of Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed reports on the subject: To the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning: (a) the question of the revision of public works contracts - roads and tolls - which absorb huge sums from the State budget; (b) the problem of the failure of the airbus aircraft of the old Olympic Air Force, which bear huge sums of money on the Greek State to maintain them; (c) the possibility of transferring the Parnitha casino to the coastal and the developments surrounding the Greek and Asteras Vuliagmeni casinos, events which, where appropriate, have a positive or negative influence on the interests of the Greek State, due to their share-holding in the above investment schemes; (d) the change in the mapping of Patras - Tower - Tsakonas (south engraving) motorways and the continuing operation of the Araxos quarries, which creates a problem for the inhabitants and the environment. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Culture, Education and Religion, which deal with the need for political initiatives to remedy problems in schools infrastructures in Sami Kefalonia, as the day-to-day courses are lacking. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Education and Religious Affairs, which deal with the need for political initiatives to upgrade the Academy of Commercial Navy to raise the level of knowledge provided to students. To the ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, which are concerned with the total destruction suffered by the farmers of Elias from the recent severe weather phenomena, the need to take relevant care for their relief from the Greek state. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, which relate to the large-scale remuneration for research on external partners by the President of ELSTAT, who charged the budget of this authority. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, relating to the procedures for acquiring ownership of the property management company of the National Bank of "PANGAIA" under unprecedented Christmas terms. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning: (a) the enormous increase in crime against Achaia pharmacy, calling on the relevant local pharmaceutical association to increase the associated policing; (b) the need to supply new patrols; (c) the need for Achaea for additional policing personnel due to increased infringement in the area; (d) the uncontrolled size of noise pollution in Patras, attributed to full control of the relevant police policing by the police. To the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economics, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning: (a) the need for the immediate activation of the state mechanism to alleviate and restore damages from the severe weather phenomena that hit Achaea; (b) the invasion of poachers on the internationally important Cologne lagoon; (c) delaying State aid for the restoration of damaged infrastructure by earthquakes in Kefalonia; (d) the initiative of the previous government to allow fishing by vegetarian trawls near the coast, in breach of European legislation; (e) the functioning of the fireworks in Patras in a way which causes adverse environmental effects, as no provision is taken for the austere dysosmia which is at the expense of the quality of life of the residents; to the former Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, which harms the public interest in the payment of a contractor without completing the construction of the Thessaloniki Sea Tunnel, which raises reasonable questions as to whether responsibilities will be attributed to those responsible for the relevant delays in the Greek State; (g) insecurity for passengers on the conditions prevailing on ferry trips for Italy, on the occasion of the overthrow of Dutch in the holds of the vessel 'SUPER FAST II', while sailing for Bari, Italy; (h) requests from representatives of the local society of Ithaca to the government for the safety of children in schools at the time of the completion of one year of the recent earthquakes affecting the region; (i) the action of ghost ships carrying illegal immigrants, while at the same time stating the great importance of preventing the infiltration of such ships in our territorial waters through FRONTEX. To the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, which deal with a body of irregularities and infringements in the management of waste at the port of PPA, for self-sufficient purposes of their management contractors. To the Ministries of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, which deal with the request of the Association of Prosecutors of Greece not to abolish the police guarding of judges - objectives that handle cases of great importance. To the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning: (a) the complete abandonment of the maintenance of road infrastructure in the area of Nonocrakida, thus causing the tourist product of the region to be fatally affected; (c) the lack of funds for the maintenance and improvement of infrastructure projects in Achaea, which ensure road accessibility and landslide stagnation in affected areas of the prefecture. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the WWF Environmental Organisation's request to speed up the implementation of serious environmental measures which were either pending or delayed during the previous government term. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning: (a) the general expectation of local society to return to the active service of all the administrative staff of the University of Patras who have been made available; (b) in unhealthy conditions of temporary accommodation for pupils at a school in the region of Elias, with a huge risk of causing irreparable health damage; (c) the risk of the collapse of the residence of the famous Greek accountant Menella Ludemi, as, while the deceased accountant has donated his residence to the State and the property has been declared to be kept, the competent bodies have not taken steps to renovate it. To the Ministry of State, which concerns the disclosure of an unexplained ‘practical’ payment of money on a fee every day to the Prime Ministers for their travel abroad, which raises reasonable questions as to whether they are legalised, in view of the already high remuneration they receive for the off-hour exercise of their duties. To the Ministries of State (To Combat Corruption) and National Defence, relating to the major corruption scandal, awarded by a judicial document to the Ministry of National Defence and expected responses. To the Ministries of State (For Combating Corruption), Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the provocative claims by the company "SIEMENS" to the pre-defined court, which claims that the conduct of management and execution of contracts has so far not been noted by the Greek State, despite the apparent illegal financing and movements of black political money. To the Ministries of State (To Combat Corruption), Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, which deal with the need for responsibilities for the destruction of the resources of the Greek State in a series of public works contracts for the benefit of a surname contractor. To the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning: (b) the morbid situation in the Super Liga Command as it describes acts and actions of representatives of the so-called directors, who are not sure, according to the author, that they were in the knowledge of the typical governors. To the Ministry of Finance, concerning: (a) the pressure to delay the revision of the excessive deficit data; (b) the challenges posed by the President of ELSTAT, Mr Georgiou, for the criticism of the parties. To the Ministries of Finance and Foreign Affairs, which deal with the need to take initiatives from the Greek State to claim German allowances and the amount owed by Germany to Greece. To the Ministries of Economics, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, which deal with the recovery of all the damage to the public interest, in order to bring all those involved to justice. To the Ministry of Health, which shall: (a) the call by doctors to strengthen primary care; (b) the need to repeal the Memorandumary Laws on Health Issues; (c) the technical shortages and staff for hospitals in the Achaea region; (d) the call by the President of the Patras Medical Association on the need for additional resources and recruitment for the staff of the National Health System; (e) the curious privileged relationship established in the National Health System with a German company of interest against a huge cost for the Greek State; the intrusion of different persons and ‘circuits’ into the patients’ exclusive care services without the conditions of legality being met, and the need to revise the whole framework in public hospitals, in support of serious professionals in the area affected by unfair competition. To the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity, concerning: (a) complaints by the Association of Workers against the ‘PRAKTIKER HELLAS’ about unilateral wage reductions; (b) the reluctance of the OAED to launch a programme of social benefits for Greek society in response to various decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr Xanna, for you very gladly agreed to read out the reports to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We enter the debate of the first under number 68/23-3-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on speeding up the assessment of the damage caused by natural disasters, so that the Government receives 10% of the Community support provided for by the European Union Solidarity Fund in advance. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Style, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am addressing you only with regard to the disasters that have occurred in Arta, Epirus, but also in other regions of the country, at the beginning of February, on the basis of severe weather phenomena, rainfall, flooding and consistent natural disasters. The damage suffered was very large and related to houses, crops, vegetable capital, animals, livestock units, bees, public infrastructure and private infrastructure, such as roads, bridges, discounts, and thus destroy a large part of the road network in Artas prefecture, both in the plain and in the mountains. Property has been lost and many have lost the only instrument from which they receive their income. After all, Mr Minister, you visited the county in those days and formed a personal viewpoint. I would therefore inform you that, in a recent question to the European Parliament, the New Democracy MEP Maria Spirakis called on the Commission to speed up the activation process for the immediate disposal of the European Union Solidarity Fund's resources for natural disasters and to investigate whether additional specific funds from the Structural Funds are provided for the restoration or construction of projects to protect agricultural land which have suffered significant damage from natural phenomena, since Greece has suffered multiple natural disasters in various regions. The Commissioner responsible replied that the Solidarity Fund can be activated on request by the national authorities in the affected country within 12 weeks of the occurrence of the disaster. We have been in the ninth week since the beginning of February and the time runs quickly and there is very great concern that our country will be able to apply. So you ask, Minister, what action has the government taken to activate and directly allocate the funds of the European Union Solidarity Fund for natural disasters and, secondly, whether the record of the damage caused by natural disasters has been completed and, if not, what stage are they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Style. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u7	My dear colleague, I understand your anxiety. It is also our concern not only to support farmers and producers, but also to lay the foundations, I would say, for the country's productive reconstruction. Before I raise the point, which you have raised about Community support for the Solidarity Fund, I would like to point out what you mentioned, that from the first moment we have been close to the devastation sites, both the Deputy Minister, Mr Sguridis and I, and we really have had a series of contacts, both with local players and representatives of producers. So there we discussed, informed, consulted the Ministry of Rural Development, with a key objective: to address the problems of the regions. I now come to your question. According to the competent National Coordination Authority of the Ministry of National Economy, the European Union Solidarity Fund intervenes if the naturally affected area has been identified by the relevant state bodies, which, in cooperation with regional agencies, assess the costs of damage. These damages are evaluated by the Special Coordination Office of the Application of the Ministry of Economy, Shipping, Infrastructure and Tourism, in order to examine the possibility of submitting the request. The Solidarity Fund certainly has very specific conditions and rules and is mobilised when the direct damage caused by natural disaster exceeds 3 billion in 2011 prices or 0.6% of the country's Gross Domestic Product. In the event of a regional natural disaster, immediate damage should exceed 1.5% of the region's GDP, and if more regions have been affected, then the average is again 1.5% for all regions. It is therefore not the European Union's Solidarity Fund. Its intervention simply replaces a part of the damage or the direct costs which the Member State will make, i.e. it is of an ancillary nature, and it can only finance urgent needs. So we proceeded immediately as we were allowed by the Treaties. And you know especially about the floods that intervention cannot be immediate, because we cannot have a picture of disasters. I personally asked both the President of the ELGA and the bodies immediately to proceed with the corresponding estimates in order to pay compensation and other resources - I will tell you later about the ELGA. In fact, the Special Implementation Coordination Agency - what we have said - of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has intervened, facilitated the process and coordinated it. For our part, as far as the damage to the primary sector is concerned, the ELGA workshops have already gone too far. What I would say by completing my first approach is that it is certainly necessary to coordinate these efforts, but if these efforts, if the assessment is not completed, cannot result in an assessment of the essential condition that it has in order to submit this request. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Style, you have your word for your dentistry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not question your intentions, but I am addressing you and the government as a whole. With my written question, I have also addressed the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, and I expect an answer there to this issue, for the activation of this Solidarity Fund and of the Structural Funds. However, the Member is waiting for an overall answer and it is the government's responsibility to coordinate and submit the proposal. And it's good - you know it too - prevent it from healing. In addition, you mentioned this in advance, and we have the possibility of disbursing 10% of this fund. Because of the economic crisis - the country's GDP in recent years has declined - a total of 0.6% of GDP-based losses expected to be financed from this fund around 1 billion and 1.5% for the region of Epirus is below the threshold - I say that for the second time, at the threshold - less than 100 million. The truth is that in the proposal of the Region of Epirus, which was made after consultation with the relevant bodies, with the municipalities and regional authorities and in cooperation with the Special Committee of the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, the amount is just below 100 million, has already been submitted and has been run by the Region of Epirus. And he "trained", because every day we meet with our citizens the question: 'What is going on? Do something. Take care of this.' I would also like to point out the following. Mrs Spyraki referred to cultural monuments and the possibility of funding for cultural monuments as well. Let me remind you of the historic bridge of Plaka in the Jumeric area that was completely destroyed. The Commissioner's answer says that money can also be given for cultural monuments. And all over the country there are damages to many cultural monuments. As far as your powers are concerned, I have also addressed you with questions, and I have received an answer. You are honoured that the ELGA services on the continent and you are personally interested and curated so that the procedures can run quickly. But there is a very large open matter. What about the producers who had their capital uninsured? They've been destroyed. This is the only income they have in order to be able to live their families. I would also like to ask what is happening and in specific cases such as bees transported from other regions. You know that livestock units as a whole have been destroyed. I would like to inform you, in order to inform the Government, that the sum of EUR 580, which is the compensation for the construction, has not been paid to the flooders in Artas Prefecture. What about that? You know that villages have flooded and destroyed houses and properties. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Style. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Colleague, we really want our request to be documented. We'll be ready in time. We are living a very bad year in weather, especially with the floods in northern Greece, and we are trying to make a concrete and comprehensive request to cover other areas. That's not all, though. Imagine the difficult position to which these farmers will find themselves, who will not be able to grow. There we have the huge issue of how to ensure their rights next year. It's a complicated matter. I'm telling you we'll try to be in time. As far as these allowances are concerned, as you have said, the estimates have been made in good time. We have already announced within a period of time, which reaches at least by the end of May, that these payments relating to livestock and lost production will be paid. We're planning. From there on, as you can see, there are damages which cannot be covered by the ELGA concerning herbal capital and facilities. There, through an approval procedure, of course, from the point of view of the European Union, we must be able to see how we can help through the well-known 'DE MINIMIS' programme. I sincerely share your anxiety and our anxiety. Take into account, of course, that, beyond the weather, economic conditions are not what allow us to do what we really have as a programme for the area of productive reconstruction, to make it a reality. We will also try honestly on the subject you are asking, documentaryly, to be able to exhaust at least what is available from the European Union's point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be addressed to the Minister. Mr Cassidy, because you have just entered, I would like to say that, by decision of the Conference of Presidents, any questions addressed to the same Minister are being discussed together. It follows your question, I know, but we will run out of the two next to Mr. Apostleus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u13	I know. I wanted to attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u14	We will continue with the third with number 74/24-3-2015 topical question by Alexandros Hadjimitriou, MP of the Serres Prefecture of the Party.Potami, Minister of Productive Reconstruction for Environment and Energy on the prospects for the cultivation of sugar beet in our country and the operation of the Greek Sugar Industry. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Hatzitiriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Greek Zacharis industry is all aware that it is the country's largest agricultural industry. The Greek Sugar Industry is also the largest agricultural industry in the Balkans. Since the creation of the Greek Sugar Industry and when it was at the edge of its operations, thirty thousand people were employed around the agricultural sugar industry, a thousand three hundred twenty-six hundred officials, three thousand seven hundred seasonal workers, farmers, transporters and a lot of people cultivated four hundred acres for sugar beet, covering the three hundred and twenty thousand tons of our own needs, the Greeks and, at the same time, an export activity as a sugar factory throughout the Eastern Mediterranean basin as well as in all the Balkan and European states. From those beautiful days, we spent the days that the two factories of Larissa and Xanthi closed down. In 2014, the Serres and Orestia plant did not operate and it effectively subordinates the plant in Platy, which produces 10% of the production required for the country. All the rest of us are now importing. We know what that means to the commercial balance. From the very beginning, as a government, you have dealt with the matter and have changed the previous administration, which I believe its history will continue in the office of the Advocate-General and possibly in the courtrooms. However, you should also take a number of other actions, because the sugar market is in an extreme competitive environment that you cannot deal with simply by a loan from Piraeus - which we understand why you have given it, why did you have to pay back to the shipowners - and an act of legislation that actually did what? He gave the orders to the customs producers to go back in and sow their fields. But these are solutions to the leg. For this reason, Minister, because Potami believes that at this critical juncture the country's productive reconstruction will pass through the primary sector, I ask you: Firstly, what strategy does the government intend to take in the sugar sector and its quality by-products in the context of the competitiveness and extroversion of our country's primary sector? Secondly, how does the government intend to take initiatives that can ensure the stable operation of sugar factories throughout the year and not just on a seasonal basis, as has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hadjimitriou. The Deputy Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Evangelos Apostolos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u17	My dear colleague, we really agree with the statement you have made. In fact, you refer to your question, that at this critical juncture the primary sector can be the engine of the Greek economy and, in particular, the logging in this region, it is the one that can play an important role. That is why, as you said at the very first moment, we have been on the side of the Greek sugar producers and workers. In other words, we did not remain in the words or in the past, because we really wanted to support them in practice. After the recent approval of the EUR 8.5 million loan, which I am pleased to announce to you that it has already been given to the customs producers and of course concerned the rest of last year's harvest, we have made another move. A draft law will soon be presented to Parliament to finance 30m euros of the Greek Sugar Industry from the reserves of the 'bad' rural Bank. We want to give a breath to this year's season, but above all a message to the customs producers that we want to support this activity. We have therefore set as a direct and permanent objective to support logging by drawing up and implementing measures concerning the incomes of customs producers, because we also want to ensure the necessary raw material for the operation of the plants. It is therefore a key tool in this process. Some Members may disagree, but this is what we have had and it is what concerns resources from the existing Community regulations. As you know, from 2012, it applies to the sugar beet sector a grant integrated management programme through the measures of the 2007-2013 rural development programme, which will be paid by the end of April. We have set the beet in parallel with the general support strategy for the sectors under the new CFP and they will receive coupled aid from 2015, which can reach up to 40% higher than the reference value of EUR 37.4 that is currently per hectare. The Ministerial Decision has been signed, the relevant procedures have been initiated and will be promoted for publication in the Official Journal of the Government. We are aware, indeed, of the difficulties currently encountered by customs producers, but we are also making an appeal from the Stepping of the House. There is time to cultivate these areas, not only to support the activity but also to respond to what you said, what will happen with the other factories that did not work last year. If there is the necessary quantity, i.e. if we are cultivated in at least every area where there are thirty thousand to thirty-five thousand acres, you can see that we are being given the opportunity to reopen these plants. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Mr. Hadjimitriou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u19	Minister, thank you very much for the answer but as you know, the main problem with sugar is neither beet nor sugar workers. The main problem with sugar is the extreme competitive environment in which it is called upon to function. Sugar is a superproduct quality strategy, which, beyond great competition, wants skilled people to handle it. Our question, which, of course, does not answer me, is not just about the cultivation of the beet, it is about what strategically and in what management board you will be able to lead sugar to competition from our time. We are in a market of three hundred and twenty thousand tonnes only in the region of our country, which is about 1.600 000 000 to 3 000 000 000 000, that is to say we are talking about a trade balance of a similar value. Albania has no sugar confectionery, we could export to Albania. Bulgaria doesn't. Skopje doesn't. Kosovo doesn't. In Serbia, the two refineries belong to us. All this together, it is another market that reaches 5 billion euros in all these difficult times. We have the sugar confectionery. In addition, Constantinople and the wider region have thirty million people, the ones alone being another 3, 4, 5 billion. The only sugar confectionery of strategic importance is in Orestiada. Have you ever wondered why, while we have this market and have the monopoly and have beet, we have never been able to penetrate these markets and constantly reduce sugar production? I'll tell you what, because I've been dealing with sugar for a long time, because like North Helladite and Seraeus, it's a flag for us. Because no one has ever noticed the dealers, nobody has ever asked for the assistance of the businessmen in sugar. They made the same mistake you're making now. They made administrations that came from continents, who do not know about business. The choice of your new Director-General is very correct as an emergency solution, he knows the factories up to their last screw. The president's choice is very correct, because he is the man of the government, ignoring trade and banking. The choice of people from the agricultural world is very correct, ignoring entrepreneurship. In a turnover of 10 billion, we are the only ones to produce and we know very well that sugar has a great cost that is transport. We're the ones who get away with it because it's produced here. But it's expensive. What's the way? We will now recommend him, Minister, and I would really like you to take a stand on this. We could, in fact, return to the four hundred thousand acres of cultivation that were carried out at some time, draw from there three hundred thousand, four hundred thousand tons. And because our factories can process raw sugar, which is extremely cheap and the product of cheap raw beet production, which is excellent as a production, as a quality, could bring down the price, be competitive and dominate, conquer all this market that has been deliberately operated so far by the Greek Sugar Industry to lead it to the hands of the large multinationals. Minister, for northern Greece, apart from the fact that sugar is the backbone of its agricultural productive reconstruction, sugar is a flag. We'd really like your place. We would also like you to come into a process of coordinating at national level the question of the operation - the reopening of the Orestiad and the Serres - of the sugar factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigeriou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u21	Mr Colleague, as a SYRIZA MEP over the last period, I have been responsible for agricultural affairs and I have dealt very much with this particular issue. In addition, I had asked written and timely questions, but I did not receive one answer, Mr President. I do not want to parade, but on how the sugar industry has arrived at this mess, I will only give you a typical example. It has not been answered, because on 30-6 2014 it appears with a share capital of EUR 6,500,000 and three months later, on 30-9-2014, with EUR 323,000. Did they hide evidence? Have the money been used for other purposes? No one has answered what happened to me. I say this because we really were in front of a sugar industry, which was leading to a closure. That is why we have taken these initiatives, which is why we are asking for money from the liquidator's procedure to the 'bad' rural Bank. As I have said before, we shall proceed with the capital support of the sugar industry, with the aim of ensuring the necessary liquidity in its operation, but above all to support sustainability for its further operation, because I think that is what is needed of you and us. However, I would like to inform you that discussions have now begun in the European Union institutions at the same time, on the future of the sugar sector in Europe and with a view to the abolition of quotas in 2017. I would like to mention a characteristic picture of recent - a few days ago - a meeting of the competent committee of experts in Brussels, where a graph was presented showing the production costs of the Member States. In particular, Greece was the only one who was out of graph because it exceeded the limit of 700 euros per tonne, which had set the graph as a limit. It was over 700m euros. So it is a very big problem and, of course, there will be other discussions. The Ministry will participate in all these processes, with the key objective of finding solutions to maintain tecturbine production at satisfactory levels, but in particular to abolish the quotas for the sustainable functioning of the sugar industry. It cannot be said, for example, at this time, that the cost of energy in the Greek sugar industries is 32% of the cost of production, when at the same time in competing countries it is 4%, for the simple reason that they are using the bark of beet for fuel production. There are other issues, for which, my dear fellow Member, we would also like your help in this process. We set up a new management board. We believe that it will respond to what we are asking for further operation of the plants. However, we have no objection to working with you, because the main issue at this time is the activity of logging to exist in northern Greece and, of course, in an area of food, that our country can finally meet its needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u22	At your disposal, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister, and the next question is addressed to you. It is the fourth under number 80/24-3-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the compensation for the farmers of Lesvos for the loss of their livestock from bluetongue epizootic disease. Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the situation in the small- and medium-sized farmers of the Lesbos Prefecture is dramatic, and this is due to the very large losses of livestock since the epizootic crisis, which soon took place, because no immediate measures were taken when the first case occurred at the beginning of July. Thousands of sheep and goats died. However, a small compensation and part thereof until 22 October 2014 was granted only for the seven thousand sixty one animals which were taken to the incinerator. Most animals, however, died in the stalks and in the pastures and some, died before reaching the incinerator - while their illness had been established - without any replacement for these animals. Also, many of the animals that were brought to the incinerator by traders and not by farmers were not weak and should therefore not have received this subsidy. However, it is not just lost income, since for each animal that dies, it corresponds to two lambs and one hundred and fifty pounds of milk, of course, plus the value of the meat of the animal that died and also given that it will take two years to give a new animal this production. These problems are directly linked and are the result of major deficiencies in veterinary surgeons in the state veterinary department. This results in the lack and delays of controls required in all herds, as well as in the absence of prevention and spraying measures, in areas running the mosquito - host and likely to reappear with the rise in temperature this year. At the same time, direct payments and compensatory compensation have been drastically reduced, without the farmers being responsible for this, since, on the basis of the action plan for pastures, millions of acres of grazing sheep and goats are declassified because they are slopes in vegetation, yet vegetation, or areas with diluted tree coverage used by farmers and grazing areas. At the same time, the number of cut-off rights of unenergised farmers, in 2015, will be passed on to the national reserve. The state will thus legally steal the rights from small and medium-sized farmers and distribute them free of charge to the farmers and to the new fireplaces it will create. At the same time, it is well known that since 2015, farmers' and farmers' incomes will be taxed at 13% from the first euro, after the EUR 9,550 tax has been abolished. Also, ELPHIA type carpets in parcels and off-project areas, as well as loans and debts, suffocate their own survival. We ask: What measures will you take to get the remaining 610,000 euros directly from the 960,000 euros approved for the animals taken to the incinerator? We are asking for compensation for all lost production, which is multiples of animals that have been driven to the incinerator. To cover ELGA and this disease and in general ELGA cover all damage to plant and livestock from any disease and natural disaster. Immediately serve the veterinary services of the islands and do not apply the breeder, who will raise costs even more, especially for small farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Tassos, thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr Apostolos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, for us livestock is a priority, because it is an activity that not only exploits mountain and mountain areas but mainly because it is in these areas a countermeasure - I would say - for the degradation of local society, a countermeasure, which, based on the comparative advantages that the regions have, can also offer a guarantee - I would say - to a sustainable income to keep people in these areas. They are therefore quite large, the scope for developing Greek livestock. But, as you know, a series of bad manipulations - the least I would say - which political leaderships have done in recent years have loaded farmers with too much problems. You mentioned one of these problems, which concerns the management of grazing land, as we do. We shall now proceed directly to the illusion of all these areas, in order to solve the problem definitively and, above all, to see how these compensatory allowances will be granted, the single payment, which is really important. You may disagree, but do you know what it means to an animal production industry, to have 450 million million a year inflows? It's a very serious matter. In this respect, then, we want this procedure to solve a problem that has led to fines and has been upset in the livestock sector. So there is a more general design, which reaches the object of your question, that is, the zoonoses that are affected. Especially what happened last year with the blessings in northern Greece and the blue fever throughout the country, we had a huge loss of livestock. At the same time, the worst of all, is what we have seen this year in dairy production. You understand the huge problem that exists there in order to meet the needs of the countries as well as the export possibilities. We recently convened a meeting of the veterinary services on 2 March and set priorities on animal health issues in our country in the next few years. As far as bluetongue is concerned, I would inform you that a serological survey is under way, both concerning bovine animals and ovine and caprine animals throughout the country, in order to assess the exact percentages of seropositive animals, after the epizootic disease that took place last year, that is, in 2014. The potential vaccination for the same disease remains under consideration pending the results of this investigation. Any measures to control insects transmitted by the disease will be implemented in cooperation with the regions of the country. There is one view, especially in cattle, of the use of vaccine. In ovine and caprine animals we are not yet ready at this time, because as I have said, the investigation is not complete. However, because you have raised another big issue which concerns in particular the lack of staffing of public services by veterinarians, I would like to tell you that we too are struggling and want to upgrade the public services, the relevant veterinary services. And because you referred to the breeder, we want to implement an institution that we found in such a way that it will join into what we call 'public services of the wider veterinary area', so that all the programmes we have planned can be started, but above all not to burden the Greek farmer. So we will all understand it - because there is a reaction with regard to the farmer - that in the implementation programme for this regulation there will be a provision that says very simply that the Greek farmer will not be forced to do the work that the private veterinarian will do to support this activity. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u27	But you had voted against the breeder's institution!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Moraite, I'll give you the floor. Before I give you the floor, Mr. Tassos, I will announce official visitors from the beautiful Kastoria and from Menidi, the Acharnes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and four educational attendants from Mavrochorios Gymnas Gymnasios Kastoria. The House welcomes you and wishes you health and all good. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Democracy Workshop", nineteen students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the 5th Municipal School of Acharnon, the beautiful Menidi. The House welcomes you and wishes you health and all good. Here, Mr Tassos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u29	Minister, I think you did not answer my question, namely what is going to happen with farmers' subsidies, the minimum amount approved by the EUR 960,000 - of which only EUR 350,000 was allocated - and what is to be done with all the animals that died, which are multiples of animals which have been taken up in the incinerator. These, of course, can be ascertained because there are the registers of farmers which are audited by the end of December. I have one example of a particular farmer, for which, of the hundreds of five animals who died, only sixteen died, were brought to the incinerator - that is, they were found to be a patient - and that is, of course, because of what you said, there is a great shortage of veterinarians. For example, on the island of Lesvos with about three hundred and twenty thousand ovine and caprine animals there are only four veterinarians, namely one director and three others based in Mytilini, one in Callonis and one in Mandamando. How is it possible for these - three, plus one of the directors - four to cover a population of ovine and caprine animals of three hundred and twenty thousand? In Lemnos, things are a little better because with eighty thousand sheep and goats there are two veterinarians. Previously in Lesvos there were 12 veterinarians. So we see where this supposed new policy leads, within the European Union, and this new CAP, which - like the old CAP - actually leads to the extermination of small and medium-sized farmers and farmers and grants and supports farmers and farmers. This policy, of course, and you, with your own vows of faith in the European Union, are strengthening and accepting it. We therefore say that it is imperative: firstly, that farmers who have lost their animals be compensated directly, not only for these animals which have been brought to the incinerator, but also for all the lost production. Secondly, public veterinary services, the State Veterinary Agency, should be strengthened immediately. The farmer can't afford a life. Thirdly, the fact that the policies implemented are not in the interests of small and medium-sized farmers, for example, proves that there are no subsidies for farmers who have been under forty sheep and goats. Therefore, the aim is to eliminate them. We therefore call for immediate measures to be taken now and for you to commit yourself to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u31	Mr Colleague, as I have told you, our anxiety is similar to yours for the livestock area. That is why, in particular, there is a remnant for farmers concerned with compensation for 2014. Compensation is a sum of about 65 to 70 million - I don't remember - and they will have been paid until Easter Eve. Secondly, because there is a huge issue about all the damages, the losses of the animal population - which you and we accept - the adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision, which in addition to the related needs for 2015, will cover within three months and outstanding liabilities of the year 2014, such as the compensation of farmers due to compulsory killing due to the zoonoses of their herd. These decisions will identify the eligible costs which are: Firstly, the costs of the compulsory killing and destruction of dead animals following confirmed cases of bluetongue. Secondly, the costs of the disposal and destruction of the bodies of the dead animals. Thirdly, the subsidy granted by the Greek Medicines Agency and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to control and prevent bluetongue. I told you earlier what we're planning for the year ahead. From there on, certainly, the management of these issues, in particular the aid - I have said them before, and I repeat them - is the worst case in managing a government issue a government can do. That's why we've been starting a huge effort for two months, and we want your own contribution for the simple reason that the breeder of Lesvos can't get eligible areas on the upper islands or on mainland Greece. That is what we have experienced in the previous period, which is why we have moved from the beginning to the point of view of resolving an important issue. We will not only solve this for formal reasons, but we will also solve it for substantial reasons, because we want these lands to really feed the sheep and goats of our country, because we need, as I have said before, animal production in particular as much as any other product of plant production.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. We enter the debate under number 71/23-3-2015 on the topical and urgent debate on the first question of the Attica Law of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassidiari to the Minister of State for the fight against Corruption, on the'report of investigations into cases of corruption of political persons and parties and the grand depositors of the HSBC (Lagard), Luxembourg and so on.' The timely question will be answered by the Minister of State for the fight against corruption, Mr Panagiotis Nikoloudis. Mr. Cassidy, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. A Member of Parliament was elected on 25 January this year. On 9 February I came to the House as a special speaker of the Golden Dawn during the debate on the new government's planning positions. Since then, for the last two months, I have been banned from coming to Parliament, from participating in the legislative work of Parliament, from participating in the committees of Parliament, even though I have been elected for the second time as a Member and this measure of prohibition, illegal prohibition, anti-constitutional prohibition is not just about me, it concerns other Members of my party. This is a clear diversion. This is where judicial power has entered the core of legislative power. Prosecutors enter the core of legislative power and forbid the House to legislate. Because, under the Constitution, which is the supreme law, three hundred, not less than three hundred, are legislating in parliament. I would like your attention, Mr President. I would like you, as the Bureau of Parliament, finally to take an initiative to resolve this issue wisely, with realism, with mild tones. I very much disagree with the tension that has been created in our absence, other days, here in Parliament, where the New Democracy and the PASOK have taken the opportunity, to create impressions, to hear athletics here at the expense of the Constitution, to hear the opening of the ferry if Members enter Parliament, elected Members from the Greek people. I ask the Bureau of Parliament, with wisdom, with soberness to do something self-evident, to inform the prisons when we have legislative work, when bills are passed, that prisons are informed that on this day the House is working. So, as the Constitution stipulates, it has to work with three hundred MPs and I think it will be wise and realistic, and this issue will be resolved. That's my impression, that's what I'm asking of you. Before I move on to the substance of the topical question and to the specific information I have already submitted, I would like to say that last year I submitted very specific figures in this Chamber, which relate to another diversion, another intervention, this time the executive has been given to the work of justice. I'm talking about the famous Baltaku case. I want you to listen to me here, Minister, mainly on the basis of the institutional status you had before entering the government, as Vice-President of the Ice Bay, when you also served justice. So, then, the government's Secretary General was complained that the Samara government, as an executive body, has treated the Ice Bay Prosecutor to hit the country's third political party. The case may have been buried later - although SYRIZA had then said that a debate should be held before the day before the debate, then the current government party was changed - but yet all the complaints Baltaku were verified, from the outburst of Ministers by the then Prime Minister - I read them in the press and then in the press what happened when it was in America and we were released - until the Minister of Justice's telephone intervention in the work of the interrogators. Mr Athanasios sat down in the position where you are now and said the unprecedented, said the terrible: "I have, in fact, taken the lead of the interrogators in an interrogation time, to see how the situation is going." These things in any civilised country, and if they did, the Minister would have been arrested and taken to prison. I would therefore ask that you, apart from the question of my question, and on this major issue, which concerns political corruption, which is your subject matter, which is the fifthness of the work involving your Ministry, I repeat, as a man who has been an officer of justice with a very important task. From that point on, I refer to the first part of my question. In July of this year, the Stepma had presented some evidence, I had denounced the Minister of Justice for a false statement that you had. Mr. Athanasios had not stated at his disposal a two hundred and eighty-square property. We have brought this issue - the Golden Dawn has brought this to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The committee should normally have been convened on its own. This was not the case, because the New Democracy, the Justice Minister's party, ruled. We have reintroduced this matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities a second time. So far nothing has happened at all. I would therefore ask you to tell me where this story is, because it is a case of corruption in a political person, and I am sure the major one is to deal first with political persons and then with the citizens. I then said that the Minister has not declared a real estate of eighty-two sq.m., and I very soon intend to close me in a cell of ten sq.m. And I verified, of course, because it is well known how justice was working at that time. And, of course, we call for this way of irregular and illegal and unconstitutional operation to cease. In view of the work and the days of Mr Athanasios in the Ministry of Justice, I, as a Member of Parliament, realized that he was legislating to prevent the work of independent authorities, such as the Authority against the Laundering of Black Money, to which you were head. Also, to close my first question, with regard to another political person listed on the Lagard list, former Prime Minister Samaras, Papastavrous, is allegedly under pressing pressure on the Financial Crime Corps, so that the necessary checks are not made for his case with the $5.5 million. Of course, if there were twenty Papastaurou, as Samaras said the other day - I wasn't here to answer - it would be $110 million on the Lagard list that should be investigated. So what is this control, too? Of course, there is another case for the PASOK funds. We had testified to the Arable Ice the data that had emerged from international accounting houses, which investigated the PASOK party, and a black hole of 100 million euros had arisen. So we ask what is going on in this case? In other words, we ask what is happening with the false case of Athanasios, the pressure case of the ILO and control of the 5.5 million euro Papastavros on the Lagard list and the black hole in the PASOK funds? Of course, we are asking whether there is any intention of controlling all parties. Golden Dawn was thoroughly audited by the Financial Crime Corps. The rest of the parties must be checked. The ILO must go to Koumoundouru too, and go to Aussus, go to all parties and check them out. Is that intent? Thank you and I will continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Cassidy. We have listened carefully and what you said outside of the question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u35	Mr Commissioner, I will reply briefly to one in one in the individual questions of your timely question. The first answer is that there is no criminal procedure against the former Minister of Justice, Mr Athanasios. On the question of the control of where you were going, you know - and it is not a figure - better than me, as a parliamentarian - since I am not a parliamentarian - that the House controls the ministers. The ministers cannot under any circumstances control the House. The powers of scrutiny of any member of the Council or of the former Ministers shall lie with the committee responsible. As a result, I have an inability to inform you of anything on this matter. Second part of the question, which concerns the control of the political party PASOK: The answer is that a preliminary examination is being carried out by the Proceedings of the First Athens on the finances of this party and ABMA 2013/2207 has been formed. With regard to the second part of the question, which concerns the Lagard list, the Luxembourg list, etc., a preliminary examination of the list and the issue of possible tax evasion of Greek citizens who own properties in London is being carried out by the financial prosecutor. There is, therefore, an ongoing investigation. For Mr. X. Myoni and Mr. Papastaurou, commands have been issued after the number. 283/4-10-2012 Public Prosecutor's order and control is carried out by the Regional Directorate of the ILO. I would add that on the occasion and the question I have asked you very recently to shorten and complete the relevant check. Finally, I would like to refer to the monitoring of offshore. That's how they report them to me. Personally, I have a different view. When I say offshore, I mean other companies, those that do not have their seat in Greece, but somewhere else and have some specific activity in Greece. Here, it obviously means the companies of forced law 89/1967, which are based in Greece, and that is why they have VAT and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u36	I don't mean that. No, that's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u37	You don't mean that? In any event, the answer does not specify. Of the seven hundred sixty-six offshore companies, seventy-two have been controlled by the IAS. It's under investigation for another three hundred and sixty-five companies. This is the offshore control status. Finally, because I have no problem answering any questions raised to me on the question of how I assess the fact that the former Minister of Justice took a judicial phone, my answer is that I would not take any judicial officer to influence it. On that occasion, however, I would not say in any event that it is completely inappropriate for the Minister of Justice to take any judicial officer to ask him or to inform him of some things. I hope I've become quite clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. You said interesting things. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u39	I certainly have some clarifications to make. First of all, as far as Athanasios is concerned, you are right that it is the House that investigates the ministers. I told you, however, that we were applying to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and nothing was done at all. And we appealed, miss. We'll do it now with the new government. That is why I am addressing you, who are Minister of State and you are dealing with corruption issues. Because here we have a clear case of political corruption. You know, I don't think it's just a corrupter who gets black money. I also see a corrupter who can influence political and judicial decisions and be illegal in this way. From there on, as far as the telephones are concerned, the Minister of Justice said, 'I called the supervisor of the interrogators at an interrogation time to see how the situation is going' as if it were MEGA CHANNEL', here concealing a huge illegality. There is a government involvement in the work of justice. There is an order, that is, what Mr Baltakos has said in the famous video, and Mr Baltakos: "The phones have fallen down to close you in prison with a view to overcoming your votes." This process is also taking place today, with the ban on Members coming to Parliament and legislating. From there on, as far as the Lagard list is concerned, I would like further clarification, because as you have said, the prosecution order is from 2012. We now have 2015. The financial framework for the Greek people is suffocating. There, on the Lagard list, it appears that there is plenty of black, tax-free money. The whole list is over two billion dollars. As you well know, in a single account there is more than half a billion, five hundred two million dollars, in the famous account of Myoni, who is a hedge fund containing the Bobola family, where there is a mass media, “MEGA”, which has debts to the Greek State, the Martinou shipowner family, where the press allegedly sponsors the New Democracy in its events. That is why I expected a much more specific answer today, that the Greek State is expected to collect money directly from all these funds, which, as it turns out, are undeclared to a large extent. I was attending an interview with Faltsiani, where I would say that my eyes were opened to me, who said something very important. I participated in the pre-review committee on the Lagard list, but none of the Members who participated in this committee knew about it. So he said that the secret of the list is in zero accounts, i.e. where there are agents, many times by aliases, "halemen", which in this zero account conceals a conciliation through HSBC, which may then have left in Singapore. I am referring to these offshores, not those based in Greece. These do not concern me at the moment. It's about the offshore companies that are well hidden. And why are they hidden? Because there are obviously illegal transactions behind them. There may be state officials who have collected black money and hid it through the famous triangular transaction, which I ask if there is a methodology and intention from your Ministry to collect money and so the economic crime is being struck and if you have something more specific now, otherwise I will come back to these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Cassidy. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I have to tell you that I have a perhaps very different concept of corruption. To me, there is no political corruption. Corruption is the illegal use of public power to serve public interests. It is the most complete definition of Europe-wide...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u42	Incomplete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u43	No, it's not euphoric or not. If I do something on my part using my judicial authority to shut you down or to slander you, it's different. It's a criminal offence, it's not corruption. Let's get this straight. In any case, that is my view of what is corruption and I think it is not just mine, it is the most established one. Indeed, you are right to ask for more explanations for the Lagard list. So I tell you, in order to have the fullest information, that control over the Lagard list is, in principle, extremely difficult, since Switzerland considers that they illegally left this bank and refuse to give any information. However, what is very important and I would like to take the opportunity to inform you as much as possible is this: Listen. To attempt tax control by relying only on the Lagard list or by seeing the latched and individual - or the Lagard list or the Luxembourg list or whatever you want, the Nicolude list, which they said sometime, which includes the transfers that have left here and went abroad - is, therefore, about to come to wrong conclusions. Because you only have the tree and you don't see the forest. The right way of dealing with and using this list is with other elements to take it into account. To find out, for example, if X controlled has how many in a Greek bank, how many in another Greek bank, how many in the stock exchange, etc. Together I find out if he's met on the Lagard list, which means he was sending money out, and this overall picture is the only picture that can be compared to what he said all previous years and give you the difference. If you just look at the image, it's not just inappropriate, it's wrong. And I would ask you to take this view seriously. The offshore issue, as you say it, is generally extremely difficult. Inevitably again I resort to my previous capacity, as you know it, and I have no reason to hide it. True, in my day and using a very long experience and very good international relations, I had achieved in many cases, using and utilizing the exchange of information with corresponding authorities, such as the Independent Authority for Money Laundering, to achieve in some cases the collection of information. However, I would ask you to bear in mind that it is very difficult and, above all, that it is a problem that the Greek state cannot solve. It should be resolved in wider context.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you made an excellent appearance and it was extremely enlightening at the occasion of Mr Cassidiaris' question. I think we should keep giving it to ourselves. I was also a year and a half ago of those who asked to file a list of Nicolude with all her contents. Then I didn't get an answer, in your old capacity. Please, we must follow up on these issues, which you have also shown so enlighteningly in Parliament. Thank you. We are now entering the second cycle of topical and urgent questions. The first under number 69/23-3-2015, an up-to-date second question by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr. South Mitarakis to the Minister of State, on digital television in the North Aegean, is not discussed due to lack of competence and deleted. The only thing to be discussed is Minister Tsironi and it is the second time under number 81/24-3 2015, a topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the implementation of the anti-military work in Kefalochori of the Municipality of Konitsa. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Yiannis Tsironis. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue of the topical question concerns the construction of a major flooding project in the Kefalochori District of the Municipality of Konitsa. Before developing the question, however, I would like to mention the enormous disasters that we had in Epirus and not just. He also referred to the previous timely question to Mr Apostleus. I mean that all those affected - you must know too - took nothing, not even those EUR 586 that had promised them the immediate needs for the damage to the devices. We have had huge damage to bridges, livestock and other infrastructures from the total lack of, in our view, anti-military protection and shielding of these areas. Although all this has happened, Minister, we have - and now I come to the question - the non-implementation of an important project, which is what I said, the work on the torrent Divika, which would really protect the inhabitants of the region. This project was included in 2012 in Measure 226 ‘Forest Restoration and Introduction of Prevention Actions’, Action 2 for the flooding projects in the region. For the initial cost of the project, the budget was EUR 1,200,000 and increased to EUR 1,300 000. There are responsibilities which you may also have to tell the municipality and the region. Of course, this is not about the inhabitants of the region. The inhabitants of the region are concerned that this work must be carried out immediately, because it is a really necessary task to protect the region. Especially in the last floods, the inhabitants of this local district have had nightmare times. I must tell you, Minister, that if the bed of this torrent runs out, they will flood homes and there is a risk that even human lives will be mourned. Therefore, the residents of the region, the residents of this apartment are resurrected and very concerned and are asking for the project now to be carried out, because they know very well that if it responds to this project, it will obviously not be done again. That is why we call for all obstacles to be overcome, for the work to be auctioned and made out of this programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u47	Your Honor, we share your anxiety. I say to you that these two projects were indeed integrated together with another twenty-eight projects in the Municipality of Konitsa. One project is the very important work of construction, the flooding. There's also some fences - reafforestations. Unfortunately, as far as you know from your correspondence - and you say so - these two projects have been too late, because they have been projects that have been integrated since 2012 and have not been auctioned properly, because the tender documents have not been in time. That is why, with reference to this project - I have the Office's document, which I imagine has been notified to you - I would like to say that we know that it takes about three hundred and sixty-five days to be executed. So if we accept that it is being auctioned today and in the most optimistic scenario that we have no objection, we will reach about May to have a final contractor, which means that the project will not be able to be executed. If he can't get executed, he'll answer automatically. In fact, the risk is even greater, because you know very well that this period ends. They must have paid everything up to 31-12-2015. That means, to be realistic, and because we know that there is some time to receive, that we should have completed most of the projects - and we are currently running for corresponding delays before us - until at least the end of the autumn by the end of September. Otherwise, we'll be in great danger. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] We have already asked the committee a question - because we are interested in this matter - whether there could be an extension. At the same time, we are investigating how it is possible if the committee does not respond positively and if eligibility cannot be extended, that we can immediately incorporate the project in the next programming period, precisely so that the project is not lost. That is what I wanted to say in terms of the situation we found in the region. But, to speak in general, since you have also spoken, a great deal of work is now in place at our Ministry, and the work on water and management as a whole, on the dangers of flooding. We are currently building all management plans for possible negative consequences, precisely to protect the citizen. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Of course, I would like to say that in this winter region, because there were no historical flooding phenomena, this work is not part of these plans, but, if this is the case, this year's experience, they are already being recorded so that this region can join the plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister. Mr Moraitis, before I give you the floor, we will be able to welcome the nice visits we have from the beautiful Attica Magulas. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-four students and students and four teachers from the High School of Magolas Attica. The House welcomes them. Be well! Have good progress and health! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Moraite, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u49	Minister, the people of the region should be even more concerned from the answer. We believe that all these difficulties can be overcome. If we were to talk about some of the projects from which the construction groups would be profited, problems would be overcome. We see that she goes to the Greek bells. That is why I said in my protology that the concern is strong. If the project is not done now, it will not be done again, because it is simply not going to be saved by the region or the municipality in order to make this project. Minister, the residents don't care who's responsible. I told you again that if this work is not done, people themselves are exposed. That is why we believe that this work must be done now. We must find resources. Any difficulties need to be overcome. Of course, such projects or similar projects were also considered ineligible in the past - the people of the countryside know very well - and the European Union and the governments up until now - will also appear from your own - because they simply did not leave profits to the large construction groups. On many occasions, in the event of disasters we have and today's conflict - there are a number of response documents that we have - to eliminate the policy and the previous governments that have been hostile to the people's interests, he says: 'You know, the damage has been done with extreme weather'. Minister, you are aware and must understand that this project is vital to the inhabitants of this region. Various projects have been carried out for thirty - five years, which have also had construction imperfections, but the deterioration in time has caused huge problems. Thus, these works that, supposedly, were for the protection of the inhabitants in the first intense weather phenomenon will not protect them at all. We have no illusions that this project will join. We believe that cancellation is definitive, so we call on the inhabitants of the region to take the case in their hands, organize their struggle, claim the construction of this project, to protect their own lives. We believe that today's response will draw conclusions from the people of the region. We said that it is not a matter of responsibility, but it is a matter of claiming, demanding the construction of this project.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr Moraite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u51	I do not understand where you draw your conclusions from, Mr Papoutsis, from when I said that we have already asked for what you are calling for, and we are with you - that is to say to prolong eligibility so that the project can be carried out. We are waiting for an answer to this. We asked for exactly what you asked us to do. In addition, I sincerely tell you that we will give the battle to be immediately invasive in the next management period if the answer is negative. That's exactly what I explained. To say "to do the work" so, without having the resources and without having been auctioned makes no sense. And it's not a matter of responsibility, it's a reality. I do not want to say 'the Minister's pounding' or 'the Ministry' or 'the periphery is pounding'. It is true that at the moment this competition has not taken place. You don't see the reality and you don't see that it takes time to do the work, unless by magic you believe that by May we will be auctioning and doing the work. I wish that was the case. And if there's any such guarantee from contractors that they'll finish it by September - I wish it were - the money is here waiting for them. However, I should like to talk about something more general: they do well to prevent them from healing. You know my political origin. You know what I'm worried about water. I said in my programme statement, in the five minutes I spoke, that the damage that will come to Greece from climate change, according to the assessment of the Bank of Greece and not from our estimate, which is worse, is 700 billion. If you do not understand where we are going and consider these projects to be secondary or third, you are wrong. On the contrary, we are the ones who are giving this work absolute priority. I am not talking about treatment projects, I am talking about prevention projects. They are huge prevention projects, they are labour-intensive, and we have them first. They're works, exactly, detonating the rivers. We do not follow a completely wrong model of the past, which was to encapsulate the rivers, to consider nature to be our dick and to do what we want there. Hey, it's not like that! Unfortunately, it proved to be trains this year - and these things will deteriorate - that when you go to incubate rivers they surpass the boxes we put in and tear down and destroy everything. There are studies, there are serious plans - which you will see immediately - in terms of drainage of rivers. And that's what we're gonna do, just so we're not in front of these phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Foreign, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs and Health have submitted to Parliament a draft law entitled 'Reforms of criminal law, repealing press detention stores and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Konstantinos Bargiotas is hereby applied for a absence abroad for personal reasons from 15 to 19 April 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u53	The House approved the requested permission. Parliamentary Second Athens, SYRIZA Mr.Eftathios (Stathis) Panagoulis asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad from 7 April to 14 April 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u54	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-03-S1-commons.u55	With the agreement of the House at 11.47', the sitting is closed for Monday, April 6, 2015 at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a special agenda for Parliament's plenary on the subject of "Convergence and decision, in accordance with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras and 148 Members of his party and the President of the Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Kammenos and 12 Members of his Party, for the establishment of an Examination Committee, "for Greece's subject to the Memorandums and Surveillance and on any other matter relating to the implementation and implementation of the Monuments".
