ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 7-10-2015, its Minutes of 7 October 2015, with regard to the debate on the Programmatic Declarations of the Government and the vote on the Parliament's vote of confidence to the Government were ratified by the Bureau.]] Before we start, I'd like to make some announcements. The Ministers for Economic, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Rural Development and Food, and the Deputy Ministers of Finance, tabled a draft law on 12-10-2015: "Measures for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement". The Standing Committees on Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Production and Trade table their Report in the draft law: "Measures for the implementation of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reforms". Also, a letter from SYRIZA to the President of the Greek Parliament Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, which reads as follows: "Mr. President, we inform you that during the IZ' Parliamentary Period, First Session, Parliamentary Representatives for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will be the following Members: First, Madam Christos. Second, Famelos Socrates. And, thirdly, Bakis Fotini". I read it, as it is written. It may not be that series, but it's SYRIZA's issue. The following letter has also come: "Mr President, let us inform you that on behalf of the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn is appointed Parliamentary Representative, Christos Papapas. " I also have the honour to announce the following: (a) Under No 13281/85, of 9 October 2015, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made by the Committees of the Parliament under Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the House: Parliament's Rules of Procedure for the IZ' Parliamentary and Financial Period of the Parliament and Parliament's Library for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period. (b) Under the decision of the President of the Parliament of 9 October 2015 under Rule 49A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, for the IZ' Parliamentary Period, the Committee on Public Enterprises, Banking, Public Utilities and Social Security Institutions was formed. The relevant decisions have been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate on the principle of the articles and the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Measures for the implementation of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reforms". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14-10-2015 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. At tomorrow's meeting, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed as a unity. Yesterday we agreed unanimously to begin today's sitting with a speech by Mr Tsakalotou. This has changed, at the request of the relevant Minister, Mr Tsakalotou. The rapporteurs and the special speakers will therefore precede and the Minister will follow. I propose to you, after consulting Mr Voutsi, because you will certainly be writing a number of Members, and I would remind you that you have the right to sign up at the time of the first two rapporteurs, until the second rapporteur is finished, that is to say, after the Minister, who will speak with the rapporteurs, to take it alternately. They will, in other words, speak five to six MPs and then Minister. They cannot speak - and I think I have your unanimous support - all the ministers have said. Secondly, I would like to appeal to the Members of Parliament: if you can consult, so that we can put two hours in the afternoon when the parliamentary representatives speak. If this is not possible either because of a lack of understanding or because someone has an unsuccessful obligation, the Rules of Procedure will be respected at the time the parliamentary representative is asking for the floor, it will intervene among the speakers. Finally, after consultation with the President of Parliament and approval by the Conference of Presidents, if we reach the end of today's sitting around 12 o'clock or at 1.00' and have not spoken to colleagues from the first place, they will not be deleted, but they will be put forward tomorrow before the list of colleagues on the articles is drawn up and they will have the right, if they wish, except in the first instance, to speak on the articles. I think there is no comment on this. We have agreed unanimously in the Conference of Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start with the first rapporteur, Mr Papadopoulos, I have the honour of announcing in this House: The New Democracy shall, by letter, designate Mr Ioannis Vrutsi as Parliamentary Representative. Corresponding letters have been sent from the Golden Dawn for Mr. Ilias Kashiri, from PASOK for Mr. Koutsoukos, from the Communist Party of Greece for Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from Potami for Mr. Theocharis Theocharis. From the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitris Kammenos is designated as a special speaker and from the Centron Association, he is appointed as special speaker Mr. Marios Georgiadis. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, therefore, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Loverdo, let my colleague speak and speak immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I do not want to violate the Rules of Procedure, but I would like to put something to your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u7	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u8	I did not have time to raise my hand to see me - it was Mr Mandas in front of me - but I wanted before the majority colleague took the floor, to ask you in procedural terms whether the issue of objections of constitutionality under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure precedes the speech of my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u9	There has been no objection of unconstitutionality to me so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u10	We do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u11	Bring it to the dashboard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u12	He's not coming to the Chair. It's the statement of the objection, from there on...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u13	Look, on these issues, it is good to inform the Chair in good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u14	This procedure was never followed, but I do not know from the experience I do not have, if the objection of my colleague's first speech was preceded, because it precedes any other procedure on the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u15	Mr Loverdos, Rule 100 says that the debate is beginning and during the debate at first instance you can also raise a objection of unconstitutionality at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u16	So I am consulted at the end of the speech by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u17	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u18	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Papadopoulos, I'm starting your time from the beginning and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u20	How long, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u21	Fifteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u22	I thought it was right, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the joint meeting of the committees which had drawn up the draft law, to the glorious role of a left-wing MEP to propose a legislation which is considered to be a memorandum. However, in the process of discussing the draft law in the relevant committees, it has been confirmed that we are doing our duty towards a historic country, with a timeless culture and great comparative advantages, but which are over-debt to face a humanitarian tragedy, has tragic economic problems and a society impoverished, especially its weakest strata. We assure the committees that the debate has been very constructive on many main and partial issues of the draft law. Most of the bodies invited, but also many Members who spoke, have adequately substantiated their objections and suggestions for changes in many articles of the draft law. Under normal conditions, the arrangements proposed could be incorporated into the draft law. The relevant ministers - Mr Alexiadis, Mr Katrugalos, Mr Petropoulos, Mr Paratopoulos, Mr Spirtzis, Mr Xanthos - have accepted many of them. We expect interventions and other Ministers as a whole of the government. However, many Members, particularly those of the parties that voted for the United Europe Summit on 13 July, forget the framework, the prerequisites for the implementation of the agreement, and they avade demands which they systematically deaf during the periods of power by the New Democracy and the PASOK. This draft law represents the first step in the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement, which was adopted by a large majority by the Greek Parliament on 14 August. On the government side, the main changes that are being made concern rationalisation of fines, with the aim of increasing collection, strengthening the institutional framework for combating tax evasion, arrangements in the Code of Tax Procedure, HISPIA, unrealistic rents, regulation of 100 instalments and some others. Ladies and gentlemen, voting on the draft law is a prerequisite for the first positive assessment of the measures to implement the agreement. It is the first step to allow the planned disbursement of credits from EUR 86 billion of financial support, financial support from Greece by the European Stability Mechanism, the recapitalisation of banks without risks to deposits, the start of the substantial negotiations for the write-down of Greece's debt and its sustainable service. Following the vote, the disbursement of EUR 7 billion for the payment of public dues to the private business sector will start to advance all the projects that are part of the NSRF and the Community coverage of national participation has been ensured, the pre-payments from the EUR 35 billion of the European Structural Funds will be made available with higher claims of EUR 3.2 billion to the ESM, the rural development programme which includes EUR 20 billion by 2020 will be operational to allow transparent fiscal consolidation options and the ongoing negotiation of open issues. Today, as you know, the relevant Ministry of Labour has presented the text of the committee responsible, which was assigned to make proposals, and the Minister has promised that we will discuss them in Parliament by the end of November. The open issues still concern the taxation of farmers, the socio-security system, the ENVY for change within 2016, the National Development Plan to be delivered until March 2016, the pricing of medicines, the change of the system of administrations in hospitals, health regions, the ESY, pre-insecure measures for uninsured older peers, labour and others. Above all, we must be given the opportunity to move on with what we are thinking as a parallel programme of interventions and radical reforms that we are planning to achieve in terms of production, administrative and development reconstruction of the country. Of course, there are also difficult issues in the draft law. But we want to tell you that these are the alibis for the self-regulatory 'European forces', namely the PASOK, the Democratic Reconciliation, the New Democracy and the Potami, to put an end to the country's own European perspective. We're impressed by their behavior. The forces that were saying yes to everything, in order, as they were saying, to avoid bankruptcy and stay in the Eurozone, the forces that have proposed to us a national negotiating team and a government of cooperation with us are now no longer indifferent to the implementation of an agreement that they have voted with us. Their credibility test is their problem. But there is also a problem with the whole political system, given the enormous responsibilities for the complete tradition of the country in the moods and interests of the political and economic Euro-enterprise. The regulation within a month of supporting the supra-insurers, for which there are commitments, and the regulation on EFF and AIF insured for the possibility of moving to lower scales - a measure that has earned more than EUR 9 000 000 - have been discussed with operators, have also been constructive proposals made by several Members. There has also been a debate on the adoption of the proposals by police and port authorities for self-management, as they want, their professional funds, the adoption of proposals for escalation in the taxation of rents from 10% to 40%, depending on the level of receipts. Furthermore, the proposal to make two months of breaches of the rules of accession to the hundred-dollar arrangement has been discussed, the review of the retirement age limits for those who are heavy and unhealthy, the review of the possibility of granting public unpaid rents, the possibility of offsetting debts to insurance funds with the pensions they expect to receive, the abolition of 10% cuts for low-pension workers who are entering early retirement, the renegotiation of medicinal products for our part to support the national pharmaceutical industry. Colleagues, dialogue leads to improvements, but only the Centro Association told the House that it was reserved for voting on the draft law. In the draft law, there are also issues that we had to regulate anyway. We must note that the debate on the relevant committees of Parliament and with the institutions was one of the most interesting things that have been done, achieving a substantial result in many respects. Adherence to Greece's new agreement with its lenders and the first positive assessment of its implementation is without doubt of enormous importance. We must be clear on our part something that we consider to be important. We ideologically disagree with neoliberal measures and substantive arrangements imposed on us by lenders in the forced agreement on 13 July at the United Europe Summit. But the burden of responsibility lies with us. We will honour our signature in difficult measures, but they are accompanied by the possibility of a parallel programme of radical reform and intervention in too many areas of policy: In the re-establishment of the internal market, the minimisation and substitution of imports, the strengthening of primary production, the production of quality food and their export orientation. Also, in the optimal use of the new NSRF, in the completion of the Register and in the preparation of the Margin, in the neutralisation of the smuggling of fuel, tobacco, alcohol and cigarettes. In trying to get the money back from the scandalous management of public money, to abolish intragroup transactions, to tax canalarchs, offshore owners, property, deposits, bonds, shares and, in general, the financial products of Greeks abroad, in order to exploit the public property from a new management fund and not by divesting it. Moreover, in order to ensure the liquidity of the banking system, to restore regularity in the flow of funding, to create a public development bank and special-purpose banks for the rural economy and small and medium-sized enterprises, to support targeted high-priority research fields, such as health, medicine, nanotechnology, engineering, microelectronics and others. Furthermore, for the turn of the new NRP to small and medium-sized projects, innovations, new investors, entrepreneurs, researchers, self-employed graduates of higher education, renewable energy sources, the Green Industry and the Eco-conversion of production, to deal effectively with nightmareous unemployment and humanitarian tragedy by continuing and deepening initiatives already undertaken by the Government after 25 January. For the sustainability of the insurance system, for the reintroduction of collective agreements, for the prevention of collective redundancies, for the protection of first homes, for interventions to facilitate the reduction of prices in critical, basic goods, for a new type of cooperative organisation of farmers, for the register of farmers, for the support of producer groups standardising their products and signing programme export contracts, for the redistribution of wealth, for the facilitation of access to public goods, for the purpose of planning and carrying out an emblematic health reform. Ladies and gentlemen, the course of controls and receipts from the Lagard list, which we discussed in detail yesterday, is a very crucial issue for all of us. It defines, together with the treatment of other lists of smuggling, the taxation of the rich Greeks, the fragmentation of public money and corruption, the collection of VAT, the review of contracts and so on, measures to help compensate farmers, VAT 23% on private education and on the islands. That is why we must stress that the effectiveness of our financial staff and other ministers involved in saving resources determines the possibility of a left-hand policy with social sensitivity. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we, and the government and all of our parliamentary groups, realise that we are giving examinations of our contribution to the regeneration of the country and of the proof that there can be a left model of governance useful also for the changes of correlation in the united Europe that create preconditions for Europe that respects its founding values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, on behalf of PASOK Mr Loverdos has raised objections to constitutionality and he obviously calls for the PASOK to give its opinion to the House. We shall therefore apply paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. They have the right to speak with the speaker, the vice-presidents, the parliamentary groups or the parliamentary representatives and the relevant ministers each for five minutes. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I agree with the majority rapporteur that the procedure in the Standing Committees was really very creative. There was dialogue, there was reason and apologies, improvements, honor the ministers and in general the climate was good and creative, regardless of the huge political disagreements that will be expressed today. The Minister of Finance broke the rule, Mr. Chakalotos, who came for half an hour. He did not listen for two days to what was said here, he spoke very disgracefully of me personally and of us, and he did not give any clarification of an incomprehensible legislative intervention made by Article 10 of this draft law. Because you said at the outset that the Minister was to speak today, as he promised yesterday, in the interests of representatives, but it changed because some other obligations will have - understandably, we are forced before major opposition speaks to raise a number of issues in the mind of colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, they have been put to the Standing Committees as well and I would like at least you of the majority who will raise your hand in mind as well, because many of these issues will also be dealt with in your regions as well as in your political life in general. Mr President, because you are old in this Chamber, I may be remembered as a non-example on constitutional issues - I may be remembered. But I have taken care, ladies and gentlemen, when I speak on these issues, to keep my political and scientific seriousness at a level that does not affect one another on the basis of the need to serve the other. I take the floor and want you to listen to me as carefully as you can. I do not follow the opinion of the Scientific Committee of Parliament, because in some cases, when our colleagues there express opinions that are not based on case law, they also express personal scientific opinions. In other words, Mr President, because Article 10 has been set here a thousand times, I cannot support with reasonable arguments what the Scientific Directorate tells us that it has a problem of constitutionality in Article 10(10) because it effectively abolishes much of the Court's powers to oversee public and OTA expenditure. No, I am with you, along with the majority in its legislative initiative. It takes more power for the public, which is so late to pay obligations and so much due time. We are, of course, under the crisis and an ex post assessment of the constitutionality of our law by the Court of Auditors and its full membership, but it is good to insist on and we support this legislative initiative by the Government. We do not, however, support the regulation of paragraph 14 of Article 10, which abolishes, ladies and gentlemen, the self-sufficiency of the municipalities and regions, universities, insurance funds, hospitals, in general any body with its own self-employed status. I invoke continuous and recent decisions of the Council of State, which, for the municipalities, defines - in 2014, colleagues, the decisions are 1716 and 1717 - that the LAGs have the possibility, the right and the ability to manage their finances with their own institutions. Even for the Observatory of the economics of the public authorities, the Council of State accepted its constitutionality - these are the decisions - as long as its competence does not violate the ability of the municipalities to use their assets and economic assets. The same as in Decision 32/1990 and Decision 2298/79 for higher education institutions. Read, please, Article 10(14)! I ask you to do this before you vote. The Minister of Finance decides everything. We do not disagree with the Minister of Finance having an account with the Bank of Greece, where all these institutions put their money to know the Greek State at last what it has. That's right, we vote on it. But the wording of Mr Tsakalotou - if it is Mr Tsakalotou's - is that the Minister of Finance will now make the case - he is, in essence, managing the finances of all these bodies, is an unconstitutional regulation, Mr President, and will fall within the Council of State with the first request for cancellation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is tragic and, ladies and gentlemen, with the experience of spring, it is the consolidation of the removal of the reserves by all the public bodies that took place a few months ago and which is a reality, that will be repaid. I would like to stress this on the grounds of knowledge, I do not exaggerate and call on the Com munity to take a position with its ministers. Yesterday, listen, Mr. Kaklamani, the day before yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u25	Yeah, but we're gonna have to shorten up. I will show tolerance, but a hundred colleagues have already been written.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, yesterday we raised the matter. It was Mr. Juliarakis and Mr. Alexiadis. The second time Mr Alexiadis told us that it was a matter of Mr Juliarakis, the Minister of Finance. He didn't get a seat. Yesterday was the Minister, Mr. Chakalotos, here. He said he doesn't know the subject, and he'll be briefed. Mr. Juliarakis is not speaking, Mr. Tsakalotos is not speaking, Mr. Alexiadis is not in charge. Who wrote this provision? How has this device come here? I'm pointing it out. It is not possible for the government not to agree on such serious matters and the ministers present not to be the authors of this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u28	I'll be right over. Secondly, I refer to Article 1(3) of the opinion of the Scientific Research Directorate - because I do not have time to explain in my own words - the issue of the breach of the mature expectation of an insurance right. Mr President, we have in this House a series of three and a half-year-old workers - who have been working since the fifteen and sixteen years - who have been overturning this mature expectation for twelve more years, who have been fulfilling their right to retirement. The concept of mature expectation is serious. We, when we legislated hard, saw it. We saw for these people who are in the motto a period of adjustment. Let the government see that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me. You have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u30	I invoke the unconstitutionality of this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u31	As far as I understand it, therefore, you raise this issue as an anti-constitutional issue, with a request that it be withdrawn at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u32	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u33	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u34	Article 10(14) shall be recast.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u35	The ones you developed. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u36	And we vote for it. And Article 1(3) likewise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u37	Okay. In order for all Members to understand exactly what has been said. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Lappas has been appointed. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, as far as I can see from Mr Loverdou's position, 10 does not raise a direct objection of anti-constitutionality, provided that he is re-printed. I think that the majority will have no objection to re-examine, since preventive control is not abolished by the article, Mr President, but is limited. Restriction, in accordance with the decision of the Court of Auditors, is permitted in constitutional terms. Unauthorized is the abolition of it. This is not the case, so we agree about Mr Loverd's argument that a recast of Article 10 does not go beyond and does not go outside the limits of his constitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u39	In Article 10(10) you are well. I'm talking about Article 10(14).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Loverdo, please. And you're old. A hundred MPs have been written. Is that how we start?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, for Rule 10(14) with a reading of the contents of the law, I think that Mr Loverd's feeling is primarily about the words that 'a decision of the Ministry of Finance determines the major categories of expenditure'. Isn't that it, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u42	All the wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u43	Is there no control of any expenditure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u44	Oh, no. He decides what he's gonna do...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u45	Excuse me. Is that a process? Mr. Lappa, you won't ask Mr. Loverdo, because then he's right. I can't tell him not to answer you when you ask him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u46	You're right, Mr. President. We understand, Mr President, that the unconstitutionality of this provision is about'major categories of expenditure'. The Minister for Finance believes that within the framework of its constitutionality and competences it can decide and decide on certain categories of expenditure. If we remove the term'major accusations', I think there is no problem of constitutionality. I think that can be accepted by both the Minister of Finance and myself, at least as legal. I repeat, if the term'major categories' is removed and the word 'categories' remains, I think we shall avoid any risk of unconstitutionality. This is SYRIZA's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. On behalf of the Vice-President, Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has proposed that Mr Vorides be seen. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. As far as I can tell from the point of view of preventive control is concerned, there is no question of unconstitutionality if I understand well. We are therefore simply recasting, on the basis of the debate on unconstitutionality, our fundamental objection to the abolition of preventive control. I do not have the opportunity to speak about constitutionality, because otherwise it is out of the objection raised by Mr Loverdos and his side. On the question of Article 10(14), which is obviously also a matter, if I understand the wording, of the insult of Article 102(5)...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u49	Sixteen, 22, paragraph 5... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u50	As regards 102, the Constitution stipulates that the State shall take the legislative, regulatory and budgetary measures necessary to ensure the financial autonomy and resources necessary for the fulfilment of the mission and the exercise of the powers of the Local Government Bodies, while ensuring transparency in the management of those resources and a law. It has been found that that provision must always be interpreted without restricting the powers of local government, so that provision in fact protects local government and there can be no provisions leading to the removal of those powers or restricting the ability of local government to carry out its duties. Now, the question and the subject to which this House is called upon to speak with the objection of unconstitutionality made by Mr Loverdes is for the specific wording of paragraph 14, namely what? The decision of the Minister of Finance shall determine the major categories of government budget expenditure, the competent institutions, the procedure and the deadline for allocating the analytical appropriations and any other relevant matters for the implementation of this paragraph, and shall then be defined in paragraph 3 or by a decision of the Minister of Finance, the detailed classification of revenue and expenditure of the State budget and any other relevant matters relating to the implementation of this paragraph. Here, actually, if anyone reads...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u51	At 69 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u52	If anyone reads the previous wording which is replaced, it will indeed see that there is an extension of the Minister's capacity and that extension of the Minister's powers may - not necessarily, but may - give rise to such a matter. Therefore, Mr President, the position of Officer Responsibility is that the wording of the unconstitutionalism and insulting the specific article of the Constitution that I have read earlier, namely 102, is to be found. So such an issue of unconstitutionality is born. However, I think that the government has the potential, by improving the wording, to save - let me say - this particular article from this point of view. However, since there is no such recast at present, and if there is not until the end of the crisis and the decision on this issue, then we will take a stand in favour of unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u53	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u54	Just a minute, Mr. Cassidy. Make a suggestion. Mr. Loverdos, mainly because you objected, you have to answer. As I understand that there is a tendency on the part of the majority for the government to be recast again in the form of recasting, etc., the second rapporteur, the Minister, to inform and answer if he insists on the wording, so we shall proceed with the procedure with the other colleagues and proceed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u55	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.) However, the layout...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u56	There's no...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Loverdo, I haven't finished my proposal. You know what I mean? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What's wrong with you today?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u58	What's wrong with me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u59	But I haven't finished my proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u60	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u61	...and take the floor on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u62	I'm sorry, what else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u63	All right, that's it. Accepted. I say that if we do not waste time, the second rapporteur will speak for 15 minutes, if the government responds and accepts the proposals made by Mr Lovers, who I saw indirectly in some respects and the majority agrees on recasting. And Mr. Vorides said so if he doesn't change. If we do not receive an answer, then I shall continue with the other parties' confrontations and enter the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u65	Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u66	Your proposal is understandable and accepted. However, I am warning you - and I refer to the majority Members, stressing what I am about to say - that the provision is an orphan and has no author. So, perhaps, after the speech of the rapporteur for the Civilian Representation, we will have no effect. I also raised a point about Article 1(3).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u67	Let us show the good will for fifteen minutes, because I have rightly heard Mr Venizelos, who said that it can be done by the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u68	In principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u69	Yeah, at first, that's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u70	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u71	For a minute, Mr President, here we are, in order to make it easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u72	In order to make it easier for this bill, as I had planned here in the Chamber on 18 March, to clear up provisions that were enthusiasticly passed by the previous House and by the previous government, we need time to understand and assess the objection raised by Mr Lovers. I propose that the objection should be kept pending until the end of the debate at the outset, because the Minister of Finance must look into it and ask the troika for it. That's what has to be done. I'm afraid so. This is where we're here! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] They make us vote and vote for what we told them we were voting for, but we will not vote for it. And now take their legs and go to the troika, which they had verbally abolished a few months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, there has been a misunderstanding about the article at issue and that is because Mr Loverdes referred to in Article 10(14), and now he has been kind enough to clarify that it is Article 10(14). So that's another article we're talking about. Mr President, let me turn to this paragraph because the objection has so far been raised in paragraph 14. It is now about paragraph 24. So in the article, I will read what he says, because I think you have understood the same thing from the side of SYRIZA. So we've all been placed in another article. In 69 a - and I stress that it is Article 10 24 - it says: ‘The central account of the State shall be renamed ‘Greek State - Single Treasury Account’ and by 31-12-2015 all central government accounts shall be held by the Bank of Greece and shall be included in the single account.’. That's what he says. ‘The Minister of Finance through the single account shall monitor and plan in a uniform manner cash flows to and from it, determine the amount of assets available and the needs of borrowing, and manage the available surpluses.’. Excuse me, but it is not our position here, in this sense. We left discretion, because we said something could be saved. I do not know how it is saved, because this wording really affects self-interest. When one first obliges a particular agency to put it into local government, and secondly, it says that it will determine the amount of funds available, the needs of borrowing and the money available to be put in place, in fact we have a direct attack on the agencies' self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u75	Understood. Your position is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u76	So if there's a recast thing, it should be brave. In other words, we have to go to something radically different and not to this one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Voridis, it was understood and the recasting of the post of Officer Opposition was recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u79	Just a minute, Mr. Cassidy. On the issue of constitutionality, we are waiting for the government. Mr Venizelos said that we could do this before we vote at first, so we are giving you a little more time. Please, the time is 13:50, if possible by 15:00, 15:30, to have your place to know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u80	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u81	Are we going to have your seat now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u83	Talk for three minutes. If you're gonna be clear, talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u84	We cannot take a position, neither the Minister present nor I, in this particular article, because it is the responsibility of another minister and we cannot amend this provision. Mr Tsakalotos is in a meeting right now with a delegation from a foreign country. We can't interrupt him. We'll let him know. To be held for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u85	Minister, I thought you wanted to say something more substantial. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Cassidy, would you like to be a rival or another reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u88	It's for the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u89	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u90	Of course, there is an issue of unconstitutionality about these provisions. But we mustn't stay there. All prerequisites are unconstitutional. All the memorial laws are unconstitutional on the basis of the referendum decision, where the Greek people abolished them by a overwhelming majority. So the whole of these legislation is unconstitutional. PASOK has now spoken of a specific provision. And the PASOK has passed hundreds of anti-constitutional provisions during the years it was ruling. It is not just a question of what a Minister will do and what the powers of a minister are. We have seen the SYRIZA ministers who forget to say millions of euros in tax. We therefore raise the issue of the unconstitutionality of all these legislations that are coming here today to abolish other legislation that you presented as philosophical to win the elections. So the whole memorandum is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u91	In essence, you spoke about the substance of the objection. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, you said that you would give me the floor before Mr Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u93	I'm sorry, Mr. Theochari. We agreed to wait for the government. Either way, you'll talk about the matter if you're not covered. Don't waste time. After the rapporteur, I will give you the floor for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. We are returning to normality, at least in the debate, and I urge to tell the honourable Member that I had instructed a colleague to count 'will' in your report. He informs me that in the middle of your speech, he lost the account. So I can't give a number. I'm going straight to the suggestion. Ladies and gentlemen, I say that after two elections and a referendum, which was held - it is supposed - to improve the country's negotiating phase and seven months of pride - it is assumed again - that, at times, it was like an exercise in the theory of games - we are fortunately done with them and with them - that ultimately led to an unconditional delivery of the Prime Minister, now is the time of the account. We, the Qualified Opposition, voted for the agreement as a whole and supported the House in our vote and on the issue of its internal problem the previous government. Because the alternative we had at the time, if you remember, that is to say, the expulsion of the country from the Eurozone, in terms of sudden death and its resulting total marginalisation, and in Europe, will be tantamount to total destruction. After all, this was said by the Prime Minister himself, trying to convince his parliamentarians at their abnormal landing in reality. We have warned you of all these mistakes, the mistaken reading of European and international correlations, which were also admitted by your top ministers. You did not hear and the third Memorandum came, when a few months ago, at the end of 2014, they had started to be fulfilled - cowardly, but had started - the conditions of exit from the memoranda. Now all over again. Secondly, Alexis Tsipras, SYRIZA and ANELs, of course, a third memorandum to the Greek people. Because you see the fate of Sisyphus is to escape the rock from his hands just before it reaches the top of the mountain and then reboots the boat from the foothills. But the agreement, that is, the negotiation process, its ownership, its terms, its objectives and measures is your case, not ours. The six-month government created a recession and additional deficits. The deficits imply measures. And the additional deficits imply additional measures. This is your case and not ours. The New Democracy is here as a Qualified Opposition, where the Greek people recently took it to the elections - because the theory of the mandate, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you, has referred to the past not only in the future, but this now applies - to opposition, to control the government, to vote the right, but not the wrong ones and to highlight the extent of deception and the size of the account. We are therefore voting against the bill in principle, because we believe it is materialistic, unfair and incomplete. It is material because it does not even introduce a simplified and functional tax system, it imposes new tax burdens on already overtaxed tax subjects. Minister, you have indeed withdrawn the provision to increase the tax rate on income from immovable property. You told us it wasn't a prerequisite. But you have recorded these 200,000,000 that you planned to collect in the draft state budget, so we - I suppose - 200,000,000 to what? Other taxes? Or are you going to cut 200,000, 000 costs? I don't see that happening. Well, we're waiting for something. Of course, keep a ban on giving undeclared rent to the public. So, in fact, you owe taxes to the one who doesn't get the unrealistic rents. So the weight is right. In the opinion of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which I have seen this morning, this tax is levied on unrealised income. So accept the proposal that we made to you in yesterday's position of the spokesman of POMIDA, and explicitly and unequivocally legislate that unpaid rents are taxed at the time they were collected. That's it. Otherwise, you impose not only in the hotel accommodation areas, but also in the rooms. This is a material measure, because it affects not only the tourism industry as a whole, but mainly affects the small and medium-sized business in tourism in the case of the rooms rented. That's also unfair except for materialism. You impose a reduction in the prices of medicines for off-site medicines, and it is well known that there is the cost limit of 2,000,000. I say to you that if this measure were to lead to a reduction in the price of medicines alone and not a parallel increase in the exact import medicines, that would be right. We fear, however, that the second and the domestic pharmaceutical industry will suffer a severe blow, which is why a material measure is also needed. The bill is incomplete, because it abolishes measures that they had rendered and brought proven revenue to the funds. Strongening the framework for regulating the hundreds of instalments, i.e. increasing interest rates, payment of currents, income criteria will eliminate many of the regulation and service of their debt and make it difficult for others to fall under it. It's a question of liquidity, not of property. When you have liquidity, you go and set. When you have real estate, you can't. The transaction with the administration for the height and the number of doses will probably enhance bureaucratic behaviours and perhaps also corruption. So it's incomplete. An incomplete measure is the abolition of the option of selecting a lower insurance category to self-employed doctors, lawyers, engineers, freelance professionals, because and when that possibility was available, the collection of the funds in insurance was considerably improved, it was shown by the evidence provided yesterday and I should assume that - you must tell the institutions because now you have tangible arguments. The reduction of fines for tax infringements may improve collection, but it will also strengthen infrastructurality, since the high fine acts as a stimulus to infraction. In any case, however, it is a repressive measure. We would prefer the grid of measures to tackle tax evasion to focus on prevention rather than repression. You are focusing on the maximum tightening up of the repressive fields, especially in provisions on criminal treatment of tax evasion where you are causing and conflicting, among other things, with the basic principles of our criminal system. I would remind you of yesterday's objections to fictitious limitations, genuine automobile and synergy, where more than all those involved in the administration of a company will probably be suspected and involved in cases of tax evasion, the introduction of universal form of liability, the evidence procedure, the binary system of sanctions for the same tax tradition, obviously incomplete all of this. In the end, however, the bill is unfair and we did not expect this from a government that was passed to implement its memorandum with increased predictions of social justice. It is unjust, for example, the imposition of HICPs on property whose values have not been adapted to the actual data on the real estate market in the year 2015 and en route to 2016. I know we didn't do it, but you do it, you said so much about it. It is unfair to collect HISPIA from EUR 1 to EUR 5. And I ask you: have you, by the way, appreciated what you will receive from this measure? So, is it worth the trouble of collecting an ELVA tax of up to EUR 5? It is unfair to tax undeclared rents. As unjust provisions that cut horizontally and retrospectively pensions. It is also outrageous when you do all this - and I refer to the Minister of Labour and what he said the other day - and at the same time release rhetoric for new architecture and generally alternative incomes in the insurance system. Pensions and insurance rights are shortened, we're not architects! But it certainly wants some correction to the distortions, but always by measure, so that the weakest ones can be protected. We'll see about that on the way. In addition, the conclusion of the Committee of Wise Men is also coming out today. We've got a lot to see. It is unfair to the bill because it reintroduces the benefit of uninsured overtime, which we admitted - for those who are talking about lack of self-criticism - that we had wrongly abolished it when we abolished it. You say you'll bring it back, not as an insurance policy, but as a promotional provision. Yeah, but now you're removing it. This is therefore another electoral deception. You vote against - to re borrow this term that has been said - what you promised and voted on. And I would remind you that it may have passed in history as a'military law', but the chief minister is Mr. Skourletis, who is still among you, a member of the government. And you know why you're doing this? To finally pass through the institution bench, from the troika and talk about it again, and perhaps bring it back up after their adoption. If you were quick to implement our big reform quickly and universally for the minimum guaranteed income, the problem might have been solved. You're late, and now you're exposed. A number of specific issues, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on matters or prerequisites, other than matters relating to insurance and social and tax matters, will be dealt with in particular tomorrow in the debate on the articles. At the moment - and by closing - I will say that the New Democracy as a responsible and present Civic Opposition is negative in every article in the bill, which involves a reduction of insurance and privileged rights on the one hand and an additional tax burden on the other. These are all elements of the new account accumulated for days by the government "first time left" and will be paid for days by the government "second time left". Our attitude is not hypocritical, as hypocritical was the attitude of the legislators, but reserved - if possible! - for what they legislate or prescribe changes in what they will legislate before they even end their legislative process and vote. We heard yesterday. You say to the people: “Pain, we don’t like it. You'll probably hurt more, but everything's going to be fine, we're here, we may be curtailing rights, cutting pensions, but we're with society." That is what you say and I wonder when you will say it, and much more when they will believe you. This is the psychopathic austerity, and in the background the maintenance of a large state, which, in order to be maintained, needs more taxes, even to cover the expenditure for the jurors who have been reinstated for your days. We're saying that's not how it works. And we say this because we are the party of social liberalism, which combines economic efficiency with social justice, which believes in the power of the private economy, free entrepreneurship and investment, which you have very recently discovered, and puts above all the short-term party interest, but patriotic interest and difficult conditions. And we are the ones that we are, ladies and gentlemen, not as a matter of urgency, but of conviction, and they are the ones that we intend to remain. We are voting in favour of the principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Panayotopoulos. Before I summon the special speaker of the Golden Dawn to the Step, Mr Evangelos Karakostas, for reasons of equality and not to speak, Mr Theochari, on the substance - because we will come back on the objection - because I gave Mr Cassidy the floor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Now, of course, it is not here anymore, the procedure has gone ahead and we will be waiting for the Minister's explanations, and I do not have to say anything. However, to remind you that the matter was raised yesterday by the Minister, he is aware of it, and it does not need to be kept up to date, it is not a new matter. We therefore expect him to tell us about this Article 24 issue. We did not first ask why Article 10(14) spoke of the state budget and did not seem to us to be relevant, as indeed it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u97	Mr Evangelos Karakostas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, this multi-project - "expansion" is the most important proof that the decision of SYRIZA Government to hold the referendum on 5 July 2015 was taken with certainty that the Greek people would say "yes" in a new memorandum. The Prime Minister himself, for reasons of political feasibility and internal consumption, then spoke of blackmail by his European partners. If that is the case, the blackmail of the European partners, the Golden Dawn has no reason to question it. But it has many reasons and every right to consider the SYRIZA Government as a member of the raw blackmail against the Greek people. Considers the Government of SYRIZA as a participant in the raw extortion against the Greeks because: Firstly, it has never reacted to the illegal decision to discontinue funding to the Greek banks by the European Central Bank, which has led to the closure of the banks and the imposition of capital controls, a decision which the Golden Dawn has denounced at the outset through its Chief and which imminent professors, such as Martin Helvig of the Max Plank Institute, for example, are characterizing as a replacement and therefore illegal. Secondly, it decided on the closure of the banks, the imposition of capital controls and encouraged the terrible economic terrorism against the Greek people during the week, which was completed by the referendum on 5 July. Thirdly, expressed by the unexpected outcome of the referendum, it has already taken a series of actions that would apply in the event of 'yes' being held in the referendum. Fourthly, it signed the third memorandum, which is rightly entitled 'the left memorial', part of whose measures you are bringing to the vote with this shameful draft. The Prime Minister, the Ministers of Government, the MPs and SYRIZA officials have argued in this Chamber that they have fought for the good of the country and the Greeks. The perpetual measures of your anti-national memorial prove that you are really fighting hard, but not against the irrational and inhuman demands of lenders, but against common sense. We recognize that by means of the multi-project vote, a left-wing, I would say, innovation. You don't bring it into an article, but in nineteen. In other words, you are giving him a glimpse of democracy, not, of course, to strengthen the sense of democracy, but rather to serve the government's micropolitical plans and to achieve the broader support from the Memorandum of Anti-constitutional Arc to satisfy your common bosses. After all, we must point out that, as the Memorandum itself provides, the non-voting of any of the provisions contained in it will result in the failure to disburse the dose by lenders, since all the provisions - which are considered crucial. The multiplier structure therefore also serves the Government and the lenders. You have been proactively disorientating the Greek people, as the pre-election period went on to discuss the false dilemma "euro or drachma". No debate has taken place on the major issue of the unbearable and bloody measures accompanying the Left Memorandum. You deceived the Greek people, because you promised him that "compulsory", you will apply the memorandum, but you will apply it socially. If the mythoplasty was an Olympic sport, then the Greek Left will have been declared a golden Olympiacos and even a bimenis. You did, in fact, have the nerve - because it is about to triumph from this step, claiming that the Greek people want the left-wing memorandum to be implemented and that is why you won the elections. Don't rush, gentlemen of the government. Don't be in a hurry, gentlemen of the Left. Extremely small the length of the distance between the “Eshanna” and the “cross Him”. You won a battle with the art of deception, but we know and you know well how to lose the war. And you will not lose him from the lenders you serve, but you will lose him from the deceived Greek people, who will punish you in a similar way to the one who punished your predecessors. This multi-legislative project could well receive the title of anti-developmental and raw tax-based left-wing necklace. As the Golden Dawn had warned before the elections, it leaves to the unprecedented the great interests, which are evading and turning with ruthless rabies against easy victims, on the one hand, wagers and pensioners and on the other, against free professionals. In the polynomial plan you include changes to the pension, where the social analgesia of the Left is demonstrated, analgesia which not only competes, but prevails over its corresponding destitute. For, gentlemen, on the left, you are not simply maintaining the pension cuts imposed by the deadlock, but you are expanding them indiscriminately. A characteristic example is the personnel of the Armed Forces, those who were deceived by the Kougi, Mr. Kammens, I wanted to say, who promised for election that there would be no cut in their pensions. As far as early pensions are concerned, it is going to be reduced by an additional 10%, without specifying whether the reduction will also concern those who left before 2015 and have not reached the new pension limit. In other words, there is a risk of a retroactive reduction in the pension of thousands of pensioners. As it turns out, creative ambiguity has not only been inspired by the Minister of your previous government, but also by your constant tactics to the detriment of the Greek people. When you were in the office opposition, you described the state of dying as "the protectorate of lenders". Well done. The same protectorate, however, is your state. And that's not what the deadlyness, which voted with both hands your memorial, will tell you, but the Golden Dawn will tell you. You are an operetate state, because your government is dismantling the n. See Part One, Commentaries Nos 4321/2015, and Nos 4321/2015, and Nos 4321/2015. 4325/2015, which she herself had, as this was demanded by Berlin's bosses. In view of this, you do not give any extension to the Equity Fund for the application of the sustainability factor, and in addition, the favourable provision of the option as two lower levels of insurance than those of the EFF is abolished. You are aware, then, that you are driving thousands of free professionals into an economic deadlock, as you refuse to secure the minimum payment of contributions, preferring, with unthinkable maniac, their economic extinction. What do you really do? Two perspectives for freelance professionals: whether they put a lock on their business, with thousands of young unemployed and a collapse of the funds, or are leading to a dramatic increase in black labour and tax evasion, as you commit the crime to put the blackmailing dilemma "survival or contributory" to the free professionals. The epitome of the punishing disposal of compact Marxists on small property is also included in this multi-project. Retrospectives are abolished for rented rooms, for maintained buildings over a hundred years and even retrospectively from 1-1-2015, so unconstitutional. Furthermore, and rather because they apply the memorandum with a social sign, you are demanding a property tax from the first euro. You change the provisions of the Code of Taxation, which can be understood as the gift of the Left towards the majestics of fake and virtual invoices. So while you are persecuting outrageously free professionals, small pensioners and, of course, small-scale property, you are giving those who have proved themselves the privileges in relation to the current regime. In fact, it is planned that the full box content, which does not contain any money, should be bound up with other items of value, to a further excellence which the conqueror has not dared to apply during the period of the German Occupation. Another proof of the application of the memorandum with a social sign, while fines for proven fraudulent behaviour regarding the information bulletin of companies dealing with intra-group transactions are reduced, provides for a fine of EUR 100 to those who did not submit or submit a late declaration, even if this declaration did not result in any tax. That's why we call you loudly servants of the most corrupt chapter. The whole philosophy of fraud, on which you supported your election victory, is the license you achieve against those poor compatriots who voted for you because they believed your famous announcements of debt relief by regulating the hundreds of instalments. For the second time within two articles, the SYRIZA Government overturns its beneficial provisions. 4321/2015, which provided for the entry into the arrangement for the hundreds of instalments due from any reason of any public debt. You are, in fact, inapplicable to claim that the purpose of this Article is to abolish the right of regulation to debtors who are able to fulfil their obligations. It is a false argument because, if that were your purpose, you would have foreseen it from the outset in the previous bill. The tax administration, in accordance with this Article, acquires the right to reduce during the course of the arrangement if it considers that the debtor has the option to pay the debts less than the instalments granted. And what criteria will he judge? Or will the tax administration take on the role of a spatial guardian and a punisher of political opinions? Changes in the law on criminal sanctions for those who commit tax evasion offences. If the Golden Dawn was in power, the krone of this article would be the criminal sanctions for the wicked capitalists and new riches who made millions of euros in banks abroad, to avoid the sacrifice, but they were subjected to by wanting and not all the other Greeks. You on the left cannot do anything like this because you all know, however indifferently, how Ministers and MPs of yours hold similar accounts in foreign banks and investors in funds which, until yesterday, you accused of seeking the fall of your government. In addition, it includes the removal of the option up to two lower classes of insurance and the possibility of clearing dues and a future pension of the insured of the AIFM. What do you say about the substance of these people, who are in fact the victims of your own criminal policies? You tell them that "the Memorandum of State forbids you from the right to survival, you will endure a slow and tortureous death or you will commit suicide". There is also provision in the multi-billion plan for the creation of a Single Treasury Account by the end of the year in which all cash assets of central government bodies will be transferred. This is, of course, something similar to that fund of 50 billion, from which you will sell out against a lentil board of lentils public property and our mineral wealth. You are introducing provisions aimed at reducing the costs of medicine and rationalising the pricing rules of medicines. In this respect, the Golden Dawn has nothing more to complement than what the President of the Association of Pharmaceutical Enterprises told you yesterday. He told you that there has been a project to level the Greek pharmaceutical industry on the part of the governments for five years. Why? To serve Israeli interests. In fact, its point is that those who do not understand that there is a plan for the Greek pharmaceutical industry to be closed are either idiots or unrelated or "in agreement" to us. The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL has undertaken the mission of the total levelling of the Greek economy, the exclusion of any prospect of growth and the disappearance of the Greek middle class. Foreign economic organizations, through their studies, testify to the fact that a million two thousand Greeks were impoverished by the Memorandum Policies. Others are the Greeks unemployed and you have the courage to triumph for an unexistent victory, as you say, the Left in Europe? You triumph on the ruins that you have created together with PASOK and New Democracy. Of these ruins, however, the flags of national resistance will be upright, to remind you that the time of payment of the account will come and in the name of the Greek people Golden Dawn will require both you the stolen initial capital and the legitimate interest. Speaking of unjust Memorandum measures sounds like Herod’s lecture on child mortality!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Comrade, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u100	I'm hanging up. This multi-legislative plan does not solve the problems of the Greek people, adds new, even heavier ones. No chance is that the lenders applaud you and applaud you. But don't expect the approval of the Greek people. The grace period for the government - loan shark puppet has passed. You have scattered the winds of destruction, you will reap storms of national resistance. The giantization of the Golden Dawn will be the Greeks' answer to you and your loan sharks. Golden Dawn is voting for this plan in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the cycle of the cleansing of the so-called 'hard negotiation' myth began, on the basis of which SYRIZA won the recent elections. The previous myth, "I smash his memoirs, share wages and pensions, delete the debt", disproved after seven months of government, passing between the creative ambiguities, referendums and plan B, which brought our country to the edge of the cliff. And it is certain that the country would have fallen into the cliff if at the last minute you were not to shake it, if we were not to put back on Mrs. Generations' visit to the leaders of the social democratic parties participating in the European governments and if we did not cover the loss of your own parliamentary majority. But trying to justify the new taxes, the new pension cuts and the abrogation of positive provisions for large groups, invoking the agreement, namely the third Memorandum, and to charge us responsibilities that we have voted together, it goes a great deal! And it's going a lot for two reasons. One is that the third, the most important memorial was not necessary, it was not inevitable if you had taken a different path to Genaris, if at the time we urged you - together with our wishes to succeed - you had taken advantage of the positive data that had been created thanks to the five-year effort that we started, thanks to the hard work and sacrifices of the Greek people and made a serious negotiation, the results of which would have been much more favourable than what you have now brought in with the third Memorandum. So the third memorandum, in which you put the country, was not inevitable. The second reason why you cannot address this category is because - as we said in the House on 14 August, when it was voted here - the third memorandum, this agreement and the burdensome terms it contained was the result of a negotiation that was conducted exclusively by Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, despite our urges for a national negotiating team and a national consultation. You took your own responsibility and brought this unfavourable result, in a process of unconditional delivery, as a result of a tachographic policy and a complete untrustworthy policy, which the SYRIZA - ANEL government had made to our partners and lenders. So we told you this morning on 14 August - I remember well - that we are not going to vote on these measures and we have said the five 'no'. 'No' to overtaxing farmers, 'no' to impoverishment of pensions, 'no' to the insecurity of borrowers, especially first residence, 'no' to 23% in education, 'no' to free collective redundancies. We have said so on 14 August, and we have said so throughout the election period. So, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the bill that we are discussing today is the result of your unfortunate choices and commitments and the measures it contains break down the so-called 'hard negotiation' and the effort you have made, with which you have certainly convinced the Greek people and voted for you. Our attitude, our 'no' to the bill at first and in the articles containing these tough measures, is a result of a consistent attitude which, on the one hand, defended the European acquis of the country and, on the other hand, it is regrettable that I have heard the majority rapporteur accusing us, who have suffered too much sacrifices, which we have swept away from you, which we have heard great accusations with heavy expressions, which I do not want to repeat to get out of this circle, as supposedly pro-European forces. Are we the ones who took the blame, which you, by the majority you lost, did not undertake to vote for the agreement that you brought? We, ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing now is absolutely consistent with what we have been doing over the years and with the efforts we have been doing, our absolute conviction that the country could have come out of the memorials, if you had not chosen this culminating policy, to take the country to elections in Genares, and the packages of your lies that you had spoken in the election were not able to reach a beneficial agreement for the country immediately after Genares. So the bill, ladies and gentlemen, in its basic articles, contains the new burdens, which we shall be voting against. It contains regulations which we will discuss, because they are a continuation of options that we have launched. It streamlines and adapts provisions of the Tax Law and others, for which we have made a number of comments, and we cannot be negative. We are also waiting for the Ministers' replies. Of course, it contains issues on which we have raised serious objections and which the government will perhaps clarify - such as what has been said earlier - and we are not negative if the explanations we want are finally given. But who is mostly the core of the bill, so that we do not lose ourselves in the range of his twenty orders? The core of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, are provisions concerning taxation and insurance. What's he doing in tax? It contains the first instalment of tax burdens that come as a result of the agreement, first of all, by charging the property, because it undoes not include exemptions to HNVIA, such as those for the rented rooms, exemptions that we have made because they contribute to the productive reconstruction of the country and to the creation of a surplus. Of course this is a big question, because they are doing so by those who blamed us and said that in 2015 there will be no HISPIA, they will not collect it. The statements by Mr Tsipras and the top ministers are as many as you want. It also burdens property, because it abolishes the provision to the public of unrealised rents, and of course it burdens all those who used - and they are thousands - and they are, mostly small and medium-sized professionals - of the hundreds of doses, not those we voted on last year in October, which have undermined promising seismicism so that they do not apply, even though they were the law of the state, but their own legislation, which was adopted here in March, with the most favourable provisions than the previous regulation on the level of interest rate, on the one hand, and on the range of instalments. As Mr Venizelos said - and as he reminded us very well - earlier in this House, we said at that time that 'watch out, we vote, but we will not vote, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA'. So now that you are voting to think about what impact this annulment of the 100-dose arrangements has on people who are not able to monitor the arrangements, they will come out of the regulation, and so the day after tomorrow they will not be able to have tax information to continue their professional activity. In other words, you do not give them any hope to give the great demand, at the moment, of relaunching the economy, creating jobs, wealth and incomes. Of course I must say that in this case the government could, if it wanted to rationalise this provision of a hundred instalments, make a differentiation to what we have pointed out when it brought us here in the legislative act, and those who had to regulate more than a million, that is to say, make a distinction according to the level of debts. And while that is a reasonable proposal - because it is about big time people, who usually own assets - not only do not do so, it does not understand in our repeated exhortations, as we have also exploited parliamentary control, having tabled two questions. I am now referring to Mr Alexiadis, who is represented by the Ministry of Finance, and the President of Parliament, because at some point we need to discuss it. They cannot do what the ministers do when you exercise parliamentary control and say to them: "Give me the information! How many used this device for over a million? What are the amounts they have set? What are the fines you gave? And finally who are they?’ Because it is released on the streets that here are the great "dangers" who cause Greek society. And Mr Alexiadis tells us that there is confidentiality! Mr. Theocharis told you yesterday that the confidentiality of debtors with more than three hundred thousand does not exist. So we'll insist. And because you're doing everything you don't understand, Mr. Alexiadis, I'm giving you the question again. The entire PASOK Parliamentary Group will reintroduce it in the next few days. The other large group of provisions, ladies and gentlemen, is the one which includes the insurance and pension arrangements. There's a complete overthrow here. I told you another time - I repeat - that Law No.3865/2010, the so-called Loverdos - Koutromanis law, contained provisions that had the so-called ‘original rights’ for those who would be entitled to a pension by 2012. And there is a great overthrow of the mature rights, for which there are constitutional issues. This is not only that the safeguarding of these rights is being reversed, but citizens are being charged with far more years of service and with great penalties, which lead to a huge reduction in pensions if they make use of these provisions. In addition, you also have a horizontal 10% reduction and you have a reduction in the lower pension, which the Minister tried yesterday to entertain the impressions, that it concerns those who are insured after 2011. No falseer of this! Because it concerns all those who receive a lower pension, just those who are after 2011, because of the mistake made by Mr Haikalis with the known circular, they will receive even less pension. Because - so that this House could be informed - it accepted the minimum wage not of collective bargaining, but of the government - known to all of us - which reduced the minimum wages and which was also denounced by SYRIZA. However, what we cannot understand in the provisions on insurance is your misery to abolish the provisions, the favourable arrangements that Mr Solulis had brought in, and which we - and I would like to remind the House, the Greek citizens and colleagues of SYRIZA - voted in favour of, because they were expressing our own efforts for a two-year period, with questions, with amendments, to resolve ripe issues. Who was that? It was the ability of free professionals to choose a class below so that they wouldn't leave the profession. The representatives of all the bodies came here and complained of the appeal. The president of the fund came too, and said it was wrong, because he was collecting revenues and he has recommended that the government not to abolish it. You are abolishing the possibility of offsetting debts with an entitlement to a pension for freelance professionals. You have to answer the question: What will a man who has thirty-five years of shop and the last five has not paid? You're going to pay him the contributions for the next few years? You remove the possibility that we have given the teams to submit proportionate studies to choose whether they will join the EIF or go to a professional fund. You were told here yesterday by this Step forward that they have filed the file and it is wrong, it is unconstitutional, now take them back. Of course, you are also abolishing other benefits, which are favourable to some of the major categories of citizens, including the pension of the supra-insurance uninsured, that is, where we have attempted to do so, but it was fair to cover our most unreliable compatriots. And the question now arises to Mr Katrugalos: On the basis of this first dose of insurance, the second dose which comes as a result of the study of the wise men present today, what will it contain? Why should you tell us, Minister, if you accept the philosophy of this study, which goes through Australia to bring the acquis communautaire to the social security system, which is the result of the struggles of the Socialists and the trade unions, particularly after and before the war, where the social security system was guaranteed, and to connect it to assets. You must tell us and you must address SYRIZA's colleagues and everyone. Will you accept that? Because if you accept them, that means full acceptance of neoliberal policies. We're waiting to hear. But, in any case, the precursors of what will happen to the second dose of insurance say that things will not be right. I shall conclude, Mr President, with three words on the next sub-sections. There are provisions of the Code on Taxation and the Code on the collection of Public Revenue. It is a series of provisions which we can discuss, such as the fight against tax evasion, for fines. We said yesterday - and we say this today - that this cannot be an alibi to the inactivity of the Ministry of Finance to arrest tax evasion. Because the Treasury is shaping for the Lagard list, so let's say to the minister responsible that he has in his hands the list of people who made the money abroad - fifty-four thousand - including the Lagard list, that he has the Liechtenstein list and that he has the list of properties in England. We gave him guns. We, who are accusing us, gave them as weapons the Financial Prosecutor and the opening up of accounts. Instead of shading and bailing against interests, they'll bring us the result. The rest I will talk about in the debate on the articles. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we are not going to vote on these provisions with burdensome measures. Our mood will be creative for reforms that go ahead of the country and the economy. What comes up with the draft budget: recession, deficits and unemployment. So we are here to protect the weakest, to propose reforms and finally to defend a project that we have and which we have, to get Greece out of the crisis, to end the memorials, to hope for the Greek people again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Georgios Koumoutsakos, request permission from his absence outside for the period from 12-10-10 to 15-10 to 2015, from 15-10 to 2015, from 15-10 to 18-10 to 2015, from 18-10 to 18-10 to 2015, from 13-10 to 14-10 to 14-10 to 14-10 to 2015, from 14-10 to 19-10 to 19-10 to 2015, from 19-10 to 19-10 to 19-10, Evangelos Vayonikis, from 18-10 to 18-10 to 2015, from 18-10 to 18-10 to 2015, from 13-10 to 14-10 to 14-10 to 14-10 to 2015, from 14-10 to 19-10 to 19-10 to 19-10 to 19-10, Evangelos Evangelos Vaynos Vaynos, from 22-10 to 31, from 13-10 to 31. from 13-10 to 14-10 to 31. from 11. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u104	The House approved the requested permits. Before I summoned Mr. Karathanasopoulos to Stepmas and because Mr. Katrugalos came on behalf of the government to counter the objection of unconstitutionalism which Mr. Loverdos put through the Democratic Assent, I will give the floor to Mr. Katrugalos, who told me that he wanted to present improvements, so that the matter might be resolved. If this is not solved, we will continue the process in which we had stopped it, with the rest of the controversy. Minister, do you have five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u105	Yes, of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, if I may, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u107	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u108	We accepted Venizelou's proposal to go to the end at first...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u109	Mr Loverdo, I was asked by Mr Katrugalos to take the floor now because he cannot stay any longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u110	Could he give the improvements to take them into account?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u111	That's what he's gonna do now. That's why I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u112	If he takes the floor for that, all my fellow Members must speak on the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u113	Hey, we'll all talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u114	But I did, Mr. Loverdo. I said that first I would ask you if you are satisfied with the answers. If you say 'no' then the rest of the contingents we have interrupted will be spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u115	These colleagues who left know that at the end of the debate at first - that you accepted -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u116	If anyone is missing, we will keep it later on for the vote to speak. I see most of them are here, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, in the objection to Article 10, paragraph 24 regarding the powers of the Minister for Finance of the Single Account, we thought that it was self-evident and would come out with a simple interpretation in accordance with the Constitution, but we are aiming to clarify, by way of legislative improvement, that it is not about constitutional self-government agencies, such as universities and local government agencies. Anyway, the point of the arrangement was not to replace the choice...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u118	The funds...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u119	Listen, the point of the arrangement was simply management, to raise all the public funds and to have a single resource management. It has never been the substitution of the decisions of appropriateness of the bodies. We can also clarify this with regard to legislative improvement, with particular emphasis on the issue of constitutionality. Because it is not a question of constitutionality with regard to the other funds, but above all with regard to the bodies which have been governed by the constitution of self-government. Secondly, since I took the floor, I would like to say that I do not think it was, as I was transferred, - although I was not present when the objection was raised - in Article 14(10) concerning the limitation of the powers of prudential control of the Court of Auditors...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u120	It hasn't been set.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u121	He didn't get there. Just to say, we think that Article 98(1) provides for control, not necessarily preventive. If there are equivalent alternative checks, then there's no question...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u122	There was a matter of substance, not of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u123	Deal. So we agree that there is no question of unconstitutionality, since there is a possibility of replacing preventive control with repressive, pre-contractual. I would simply add that if a President-in-Office of the Council is to be adopted after consulting the Court of Auditors, and any reservations or improvements made by the Court of Justice will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u124	Article 1(3).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u125	Nothing was said about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Loverdos put it in. How was it not said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u127	I would like to clarify that we are now talking about the objection of constitutionality. As Mr Vorides said here, I do not think there is any question of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u128	Another article...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u129	I'll give you the floor, Mr. Loverdos. Have a seat, Minister, to make the clarification of Mr. Loverdos for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u130	Well, there's a matter of government slut. We're on our way. My colleague understands very well that we have, for our part, raised two issues. You said Article 10, paragraph 24. We object, but we will talk about it when it brings the improvement, which we very much welcome in the first place. For Article 10(10), we did not raise any questions. On the contrary, Minister, we supported the regulation of paragraph 10. And for Article 1(3), which was the first topic we have raised, we said that we, which have made major structural changes to insurance, sometimes hard, have always provided with respect for those who have a mature expectation of retirement and on the basis of the exaggerations that life brings us to be on the sidelines. So if one has thirty-four years and eight months, because he hasn't yet completed four months, you're gonna throw him 12 years in the head? You need to find a transition here. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u132	I'm gonna need less. We have tried to have a transitional step in all age limits settings. In general, however, you should know that the effort we are making - and I think you will agree - is henceforth to have uniform rules applicable to both the public and the private sector and the old and new pensioners. I do not consider that to be contrary to the Constitution. I think, on the other hand, that we are obeying a basic principle of equality which both the Constitution and the sense of law imposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u133	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u134	Minister, this is the government's final position on Article 1(3). There is no question of the rest, just seeing them come in writing. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u135	Only in the process of discussing unconstitutionalism will I say. As soon as we do not have the wording, I do not think we can move forward. At the moment, we can't place ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u136	I asked whether the government's final position on Article 1(3) is too. Because if the written version, which is to come, remains Article 1(3).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u138	Article 1(3)?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u139	For the single fund, I would like to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u140	That's what we're talking about. It is not exactly the uniform one, but in any case. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u141	I need a minute to clarify. Our aim was to concentrate all resources and have a higher interest rate and better management. It's never been possible when he wants the university to get money for it or the local government. So there is no question of unconstitutionalism. We will agree together in a word with call - give it a guarantee of this. If we do not make the wording well, we can see it again in agreement. That was our goal, and that can be explained. I'm not a legal person to do exactly, but that was the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr Ministers, so as not to interrupt the debate again, we are almost 12 o'clock tonight. I would like to ask you, in consultation with representatives of the parties and for your part, to prepare it, by 9 o'clock at the latest, to have written about what you said orally. If it's okay, the objection of unconstitutionalism is withdrawn and ends...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u143	That's why. The other one remains.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u144	Yeah, that's what we're talking about. I said maybe by 9 o'clock at night there's a common place for everything. But please, until 9 p.m. we have it, because before voting at first this must have been resolved. Do we have an agreement on this, so that we will not be delayed? We agree, as far as I can see. We move on to Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. The Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr Juliarakis, speaking in the course of the work of the committees working on this bill, stressed that these measures are also a prerequisite for the implementation of the agreement, namely the new Memorandum of Understanding, the third Memorandum of Understanding, the Tsipras Memorandum, which - he says - has a different orientation, because it will lead to the stabilisation and recovery of the economy. That is precisely what we as a JRC want to fight for, precisely because this approach, this pursuit, is also the core of government policy. Of course the previous governments had the same core, namely the stabilisation of the economy and the capitalist recovery, because that is precisely the aim of our country's bourgeois order. We want, as a JRC, to fight precisely this task of the government, because the implementation of this objective requires even greater suffering, even greater suffering for the workers, for the wide-ranging strata. Why does capitalist development mean? How does capitalist development come? It has certain terms and conditions. What are these terms and conditions? Concentrated we'll report them. It requires a much cheaper labour force - that is to say, a reduction in the value of the labour force - much cheaper workers, without structured labour rights. That is why there is the liberalisation of the labour market, the abolition of stable employment, the generalization of different forms of parttime work. It means further hitting social security, but also more overall the rights of workers in the workplace, collective agreements. Secondly, it means an even more favourable environment for the action of business groups. How does that come? With the new tax exemptions, the scandalous tax exemptions enjoyed by large capital and the monopolistic groups, with the new incentives, the "development", i.e. new money by Greek taxpayers, which will support the investment projects of monopolistic groups. Finally, it means creating the conditions for the existence of new areas of action of the large capital, of over-accumulated capital. That is why we have the liberalisation of markets, the famous implementation of the OECD toolbox, the abolition of a series of State interventions in the sphere of the economy, the urban state in the sphere of the economy, for the benefit of the monopoly groups, the privatisation and the divestment of property. So the current government is also committed to this, and that is precisely the context in which the state debt is being settled. The reduction of government debt will not lead to an improvement in the position of the people. On the other hand, a further reduction in the state debt, public debt, will mean an escalation in the anti-grass attack. So what does State debt relief mean? It means that there will be even more, even greater, warmer public money to support business groups. In conclusion, therefore, this strategic choice of the government, this attempt to stabilise the economy and capitalist recovery, constantly leads to the satisfaction of the people's needs being sacrificed to the altar of competitiveness and profitability. So we will have a development that will be at the expense of the people. That is why and the measures implemented by the current government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, are not an originality, but are applied in all European Union countries in all developed capitalist economies. This is why, once again, it is confirmed that the current government, the left-wing government and the ANEL partnership, is nothing but the service staff of the monopoly groups. The prerequisites included in this bill, of course, are neither fragmentary nor opportune. They include, implement, specialise the above design, i.e. facilitating and satisfying the needs of monopolistic groups, which have a class mark, that is, they are deeply anti-grassy. These measures, which are included in the new Multifibre Arrangement, are burdensome, precisely because they come to work as a complement to the previous anti-grassroots measures, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has not abolished and which were provided for in the first and second Memorandums. It is precisely this complementarity of the new measures that demonstrates the barbaric nature of what the JRC stressed, that these measures are a roller for the working class and the wide folk layers. However, let us look at some of the measures provided for in this bill and their philosophy, because we will speak more in detail at tomorrow's debate. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] What does the government and Mr Alexiadis claim, the Minister responsible? That the government's primary concern is to combat tax evasion. But this is a joke. It is a joke to stop tax evasion, and not just a joke, because some would laugh, but also a pretext to escalate the anti-grass attack, the tax raid against the working class and the wide popular strata. Is this an exaggeration of what we say a joke about the fight against tax evasion? Are we overreacting? Not at all, we say. In fact, we say that in international tax competition, in conditions of free movement of capital, under conditions of existence of various secrets, such as tax confidentiality, commercial secrecy, bank secrets and the anonymity of shares, and much more and at the same time tax havens, this objective of the government is impossible to achieve. And exactly why do we say that? Because it is not an originality of Greece. It is not only in Greece that the issue of tax evasion - supposedly - employs urban governments. Too much is the publications that refer to this issue. I shall refer to two very recently. The first publication is the newspaper 'KATHMERINI', which refers to a report on the United States economy. What does this report say? It says that the fifteen largest American corporations, i.e. multinationals, have in tax havens more than $1 trillion dollars and the sums held by five hundred larger in tax havens are 2.1 trillion dollars. These multinationals in the United States, which even admire their tax system, have found the opportunity to tax them legally or lawfully through tax havens. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am referring to another publication, a recent one, which I will be tabling as well. In Great Britain - a European Union country - Facebook for 2014 and for profits of 105 million pounds, how much did it pay, utilizing the various 'bricks' of the tax system? Only £327 as much as an average employee in Britain pays! And these tax 'bugs' are not only Greek, they are international. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To show both hypocrisy and hypocrisy, I say that today there is a post in a newspaper on tax havens. The four of the six largest tax havens where are they located? They are in Europe and the three are in the European Union. The first is the Netherlands, followed by Singapore, Hong Kong, then Luxembourg, Switzerland and Ireland. These countries are the largest tax havens that also exist through these tax havens, the multinationals find the opportunity not to pay a penny for the enormous profits they have. But will anyone also tell me that, well, what you say is more generally, cannot be dealt with, there are difficulties, but do we not limit the phenomenon here in Greece, which may be bigger? Even if what you say is true, since the large, multinational, monopolistic groups cannot catch them, with the tax havens, with the triangular transactions they have, where will this chase of tax evasion result? It will end up with the self-employed, the professionals, small and small businesses. So you will unleash a tax hunter to the small, effectively exempting monopolistic groups. That's exactly why you bring this bill. What are you doing? You're reducing the fines for tax violations. So you make it easier for big business groups to make new tax violations, after you reduce the fines. And at the same time, to show social justice in your policy, what are you doing? You are also reducing the limit of the inappropriate deposit of employees and pensioners, from 1,500 to 1,000 euros. To do what? To get the 100, 200, 300 euros that they may owe to the taxes or insurance funds. Is that the social responsibility you have? Is this the humanism that you are actually demonstrating? Of course, it is not only enough that you reduce the fines, but that you also open them up with a whole 'black door', to continue with the tax evasion. Saying what? That they can submit an additional amending statement, even when the audit has been started, and so far it has been until the start of the audit. This is part of a specific logic and philosophy. You are making it easier on the substance, you are not dealing with it. Tax burdens are certainly going to pay for the popular layers. An example is the ENPIA, which is maintained. The classic nature of your policy is also seen here. Include the rooms for rent and relieve the hotel units. So who do you make it easier for? The business groups active in the tourism sector. You are shaping an even more favourable environment to further develop their action. With these specific arrangements, you are also exempting the companies belonging to the GOI from HICP. This makes it easier to privatise these businesses. In the same logic and philosophy, Article 13, which exempts any undertakings operating in sectors that have been granted by the GOI or by the State and provide work, i.e. airports, ports, transport, large projects, which are formed. And not only do you exempt them, but you also retroactively delete any debts they had in the local government agencies, once the regime has been in force, that they have to pay compensation fees. This reduction, therefore, of the revenue to which you are driving the municipalities, together with the reduction of state funding, will lead to an increase in the reward fees to be paid by the people's families. Who, then, is this measure? Is it for the people? Is it for popular mattresses? Or is it for business groups? Do you make it easier or not to further privatise the undertakings that have been granted to the HSE? So this is your social justice and your redistribution policy! Yes, you're redistributing, but you're doing it for the benefit of the big capital, the monopolistic groups. Your philosophy of insurance is corresponding. It is part of the logic of the shrinking of social security institutions, so that private security can be developed in our country, either through the professional funds or through insurance. These are the so-called 'three pillars', on which Mr Koutsoukos was torn his garments before and which, under a PASOK law, had been implemented in our country, the three axes of so-called'social security'. Why are you doing this? In order to reduce the so-called 'non-wage costs', that is to say, to increase competitiveness and profitability. That is still what we have to deal with. The conclusion of the Committee on Wise Men's report, which has been made public, suggests that the contributions should be commensurate with the burden-sharing rather than with the relationship of work. This will lead to complete freedom of business groups from the obligation to pay employers' contributions to the insurance funds. So you're overthrowing the whole thing. And from this point of view, you are further increasing the retirement threshold with these regulations up to seventeen years. Remove pensions for older people, reduce benefits in medical care, and thus, even further, non-assistance of subsidiary funds will lead to new reductions. Start the rinsing of heavy and unhealthy workers by setting their target workers in cleanliness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the government and Mr rapporteur of the government, you are a useful example of left-wing governance, but not of the people. Useful for the bourgeoisie, because you prove to be the most capable of implementing the most barbaric, the most difficult measures where New Democracy, PASOK and the River were struggling to implement them. This is what you are doing today, and at the same time not only do you implement the most difficult measures, but you give them the right to come out and shout, to be made up to honorers, the ones who opened the way to strike the working class and the populace. Overall, from this point of view, we say that the people must not have any illusions - and I am ending with this, Mr President, and I thank you for the tolerance - for the policy of government and of counter-population. It must conflict with the whole of your policy. It must conflict with the logic of social automation, which is a means of implementing this class policy and which is mentioned in the name of dealing with the so-called 'humanist crisis'. So try to divide the poor with the least of the poor and confront them, divide the sections of the people among them, so that you can implement your barbaric and class politics. The people must not allow this division to pass, but rather the response to the social automation of the government must be the intensity of unity, the building of the people's bloc so that the working people's movement can conflict with this policy, overthrow it and lead to more general ruptures and overthrows, which are necessary to enable the working class and the wide folk to put today at their focus the satisfaction of the people's needs and not capitalist profit. It is clear that we are voting against this bill in principle and, indeed, as a JRC, we will table a proposal for a roll-call vote. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, special speaker from the Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, we weren't in any government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u148	Well, you're not from virginity!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u149	Talk about New Democracy, PASOK, DIMAR, and even LAOS. We didn't even exist. At least don't confuse that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u150	Right, right! You're from virginity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, your antimonetary cycle has reached, as you have seen, at the end of it. I called you yesterday in the 'SYNA' committee, namely the Memorandum of Understanding, and you did not like it. It's all right! Nobody likes bitter truth. However, I recommend that you will now be able to order another parliamentary life,'shine' and humbly. Does that remind you of anything? Something must remind you, because you're more like the past. With this bill, which you are voting for yourself, you are putting great burdens on Greek citizens, without any real objection, as I will prove, and then, because you have a nice and convincing story, a story, as we often say, but it is fake. It is worth saying that the fact that you have succeeded and convinced does not do what you really say. The real and false are measured with reality, not with the ability of the suffering to convince his audience. So the argument to which you eventually end up - and we have heard it many times in here, from this Step, even from the Prime Minister's mouth - is that 'after we lie so much, then how are the world with us?', it is unacceptably shallow. In your case, you're convinced of why you're saying nice and convincing lies. But let's see what you're saying. You're telling us four things. Firstly, you tell us that you are a truly left party - indeed, you are exiled when you are called 'central left' - and that you are forced to do things, against your will, things that you do not believe, which are neoliberal, but which have been imposed by the power which has defeated the law. I'll say it otherwise. You do "left hunger strike", but like my friend, doctor from Heraklion, bite and a "bouquet" neoliberal memorial. You will also pinch a "bouquet" in fifteen more days with the second prerequisites. You're going to continue with the red loans, so take the day off, take the week off, take the month off. As it has been revealed, however, there is no hunger strike by eating, and you are not left by voting on memorials. Anyone who wants to be left quits. Nobody forces you to be here in Parliament and vote! I have nothing in common with Mr. Army, Mr. Lafazanis and the People's Unit, but they were politically honest and resigned by Ministers. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] They resigned from Ministers. They didn't make the left by voting right. They didn't do it to keep chairs and chairs. They left and took SYRIZA's soul together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u152	Are you left?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u153	Do you realize that the soul of SYRIZA has not been taken away from it by the People's Unity?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u154	Don't give me that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u155	Are you ladies and gentlemen - especially you who are not in the government - going to continue to support the headline choices for chairs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u156	Did you vote for them, Mr. Theochari?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u157	The left man I know quits when he doesn't agree. You're not civil servants!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u158	While you are, Mr. Theochari!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u159	You'll hear them no matter how much it hurts. Don't get upset. Here we are, you'll hear them. You are not civil servants to implement the policy of political leadership. You're not troika officials and any troika!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u160	Please, Mr. Theochari!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u161	You are Members of the Greek Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u162	That's not a reason. It's a hybrid!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u163	But it's causing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u164	You're saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u165	You will take the floor when your turn comes to contradict his arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u166	You have been very affected by the outcome of the elections, Mr Theochari. The gar of sorrow gives birth to insanity!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u167	I repeat your own words, that you vote despite your conscience. That's what I'm answering. Those aren't my words. And if you don't like them, change your position. You are Members of the Greek Parliament and when you are not voting consciously, you are violating the Constitution. It does not fit into "a little pregnant" to these, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u168	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u169	I'm talking about you. Look at your own issues. No need for irritation, Mr. Gaki. Calm down. The second thing you say is that since we voted for the memorandum in the summer, we must continue to support your mistakes. No, ladies and gentlemen. We supported our country, because your inner-party fires and your failed drachma plans would throw it on the rocks. Now we are judging the provisions you are bringing and judging. After the summer's vote you told us that the memorandum is still open to improvements. Where is he? Before the September elections you said you would do it better and the Greek people must vote for you to make it better. Where is it that's better? After the elections you told us that with four cases of tax evasion you would get the VAT back to education. Where's the VAT on the training you get him back? The Minister for Rural Development said yesterday that the questions of farmers are open. So you continue on the same hawk. No, therefore, we are not voting on this memorandum which does not improve even a party and a perfect one. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will not accept the wrong provisions of the summer that you have not been able to correct. We will not accept continuing the mockery of the Greek people, with the provisions before the elections to be undone after the elections, I said, of the newly-built Memorandum students. We will vote for every provision in consciousness, depending on whether it helps the Greek people or not. It's the same thing we've always done, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u170	Always, always!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u171	You asked the Greek people to rule on your own with the ANELs to implement the memorandum better and more faithfully. Since the Greek people gave you what you asked for, now why are you shouting? You didn't want us to settle in, because we wouldn't let you do whatever you want, and now you want us to share the rent. Hey, no! We're not sharing the rent! You're looking for suckers, but suckers are over! Thirdly, you tell us that you have the moral advantage as left-wingers. We've already seen you're not left-wing. We have already seen that you have no political honesty as you cheat on the Greek people. However, as you are also looking for the moral advantage that the ministers who forget their shares and deposits have received from you, as you wonder who they are and where they are, note that the inaccurate statement "from where you stand" is a self-righteous offense. It has nothing to do with whether it is a crime product or a non-taxable amount. These are later examined by other departments. So please convene the committee immediately so that all the shadows will go away. He's paid enough for the entire political system! Finally, you tell us that with all the things you bring, no matter how bad you are, because you have the moral advantage, you will hit tax evasion and corruption, you have no dependencies. Let me say that you have already said goodbye to the advantage you are losing, let me see if you will be able to catch the tax evasion and corruption with this bill, if the slaughter of the pensions you bring here and presented to us in another Chamber of Parliament, and you will bring us in a little bit for a vote, if the restoration of Mr. Skourletis and your seven-month rule is worthwhile. I have already shown to the committee that the provision allowing the submission of late and amending statements after the start of the investigation also helps to avoid tax evasion and corruption. In short, I will say it to the Greek people, but also to those Members who were not in committee. With proper consultation, the auditor and the tax collector will find them so that the proper statement cancels the uninjurious control. However, even if we are overlooking corruption, the taxpayer after this provision should no longer make sincere statements. Because if he doesn't check, he's gonna get away with it anyway. But if it is checked, it will be possible with a small fine - smaller, because you guys were short-lived and short-lived and now to get away with it. What did Mr Alexiadis answer? That there's already a tax evasion. That is his answer, that there is already tax evasion. That's not an answer. This is "flying the ball on the platform". If you bring in a provision you share free guns and tell you that this will lead to murders, will you tell us 'we already have murders'? Is that an answer? We judge the arrangement as such and consider it to be aiding tax evasion. The fact that he will come to add to existing tax evasion is irrelevant. That's not serious! You're back to tax revenues of 3.4 billion already. With these provisions you will go even worse. I say this now to hear it and the Greek people: you will not so catch the goals and you will begin to blame the memorandum, the evil of our roots, the unrealistic Europeans, or I do not know what else! You will not, however, catch the targets and you will also take new measures with the ax, because you bring such protection and encouragement of tax evasion and corruption. But that's not all. I'll tell you a few more things: In Article 3(5), I was and am in favour of streamlining the KCC's fines. In all countries they have fines on VAT and income taxes and a few very little on the Code of Books and Elements, which does not exist, but what is relevant. I note that whenever they have tried to reduce to a large extent the uncoupling - because about 0.5% of the money is being collected - fines, like all the previous in opposition, you said that the government is trying to protect the tax-railers. Now you guys do it. What are you doing? Fines are only available if VAT is available. For example, for doctors who have no VAT there will no longer be any point in sending tax to the medical profession, because there is no fine anymore if the doctor does not cut off a receipt. So the heavy announcements about the workshops coming out in Kolonaki and cutting fines for the doctors of Kolonaki go. That's it! You won't be able to cut fines because there's no VAT. Isn't that right, Mr. Brutsi, where you're taxier and you know it? Save that it won't make any sense and all the cases of evidence in bars, etc. With EUR 10 or 20 uncut proof - Mr Koutsoukos said yesterday - there will be a fine of EUR 1,5 to EUR 2. It won't even be worth the taxi gasoline he went to the bar to cut off the fine. You also remember with paragraph 6 of Article 3 all counterfeits and virtuals for old uses. We are not talking about here and now that we could discuss and agree, but about old uses. In other words, you are canceling a tax year's work. If you have to, say it. Don't do it like that. All cases that will not be completed until tomorrow when the bill is passed, even if they relate to old uses, such as 2009 and 2010, are archived. But those who are large, under paragraph 7 of that article, will be entitled to the TBR because of the constitutional principle of better treatment. And they're getting away with it. The little ones who have no money to go to court and pay, they'll pay for it. But the big ones will go up to the CTE, they will not give euros and they will take them back and what they have given up to now. Very well go for the second time left! With paragraph 8, you are escaping those who inflate their expenses with "monkey" tariffs on "shoulders". You heard Mr. Maymarakis talking about "shoulders" and brought a whole bill to save them. The same is true of those who are overpricing, to justify subsidies and investment goods. If you build the building overpriced, since there's the building, there's no more violation, and we're fine. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You are commemorating with Article 8 the offshores that do not pay the special property tax up to 100,000 euros. The New Democracy has not dared to do that. The infringement was criminal from the first euro. For up to EUR 100,000 unpaid tax, i.e. for an objective property value of approximately EUR 700,000, offshores are not persecuted. That's what you tell the Greek people. Look at it. Very quickly you became allies to the owners of offshore. Also, with Article 8 you change Article 66(5) of the Code on Tax Procedure and you say that it is not a factual tax item, which relates to a real transaction, if the person of the issuer is different from what is stated in the item. With the scandalous photographic provision you cover those who do a black transaction and look for "shoes" - again here the "shoulders" - such as the food of the Drokaite or the supergrower - these are not random, there is industry - to cover the expenditure and not to pay the tax. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. I don't need much time, just a minute. This is common practice and you 'clean' it because you do not put a word. Please, change it! Change it now and say that “...it is not virtual for the well-being customer the tax item...”. Put the word 'good-better'. Then you can fix it. Otherwise, you accept the designation of the 'father of tax evasion'. I also hear that you have already frozen the Belgian VAT fraud system that you put on us and voted on in the summer. It's already frozen. Is that true? Is the smuggling of fuel going to the programme statements? Is your political will to combat smuggling and tax evasion depleted? Please respond. Finally, with paragraph 6 of Article 3, you will memorize thousands of cases from the Lagard lists, transfers, etc., because they will not be regarded as a tax evasion. So, you remove the twenty-year limitation and provide protection in all these cases. It's a lot of serious cases. For example, we have the Liakounakou case that is recent and is largely based on fictitious and forgery, because this is always justifiable. Now, the offence of tax evasion is being removed, the limitation is being lifted from the 20th century to the five years and deleted. You will help one - one of these cases, as you helped one to one of those who owed more than a million euros in summer. Still, please give us the names of your friends. Now, here we see that you are going to do the strictest, and with these provisions you will help them, so that their case can be dropped. Mr Alexiadis, Minister, some of these provisions have tried too many times in the past - and I really am speaking, because I was in front of them too - to have Mr Mavraganis and others but have always stopped Mr Stournaras and Mr Hardouvelis. Don't hide behind the troika and the negotiation. I know from my experience, when I was negotiating, that such provisions do not accept them, if he knows and understands them, even the Troika. Do not hide behind this excuse. Do not agree to sign tax evasion aids brought to you by others. The bill won't have their name, it'll have yours. Ladies and gentlemen, at other times, when there was social decline, it took a 'fucking' to wake up a society that did not see its mistakes. This "fly" paid it dearly, with a necklace. However, history has justified it. A new "flying" you need and now remind you that what you say to the Greek people is based on sound foundations. We will not deny, as we hope others will not deny, this role. We will not agree to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor, a special speaker from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to repeat a great deal of data and data, which we are giving in our speeches both to the committees that we participate in and to the plenary. It is our honour, I believe, to address the Greek people. Through this I wanted to say something that I have forgotten for two days - and I think the whole House will agree - to ask all together, at least three hundred Members of this House, a great apologies from the ten-year-old who came down from the CCTB driver for 1 euro from the bus. This is the situation in Greece. We're not chasing the driver. All the people in Greece in the last six years have been stressful and melancholy - it is also medically proven that it governs many layers of Greek society - and it has shifted stress to all levels of Greek society. It's a very bad way of dealing with an adult man, a family man! Imagine getting a kid down from the bus, which could be his kid. And that man didn't think he could be his kid. That is what we all need to achieve. I think that we all apologise to this child and promise him that our work in this House, our duty and the function we are doing is to protect this and other children from similar - if you want - reactions of adults, offensive to the same family. Let me remind you here that in mid-memorandums we lost a child who jumped off a bus. In this country we must not re-approve every two to three months. It is a pity to underestimate the minds of the Greek citizen and the voter, who has passed the banners and in the last elections, has given a clear signal to a government and finally to a coup d'état to take a step further in the country and not to go unnecessarily to the drachma. In this, if you wish, all the parties in this House - almost two hundred and fifty-five votes - contributed to this, and this prevented the worst outcome that would have had a naughty exit from the euro. But we're going to today. I have said to all of my speeches that I am almost full of opposition, because three days now and to all the nights that we have done, and I imagine many Greek citizens who are wasting their time creatively - I would like to imagine - what they hear from us to watch what their graves say about the future of their own families and the future of their homeland, unfortunately, three days now and tomorrow - I do not hope that I have lost my Hope - the opposition is making a very nice criticism! Thank you very much for that. It is both creative and, of course, as we have seen, and many parts of the bill had to be corrected. We have seen that as a government too, but the opposition has helped us in this. Apart from that, where's the counterpopulation program? Assuming that we are all wrong, that we have a wrong reasoning, we have sold our constituents out, and what decision we make is by nature a mistake, what is the program of counter-population? Apart from the criticisms we are making per article, which is good - I want to believe - that from there on what is the counter-proposal? I'm not going to go into the costing, accounting, or anything. We need a proposal. The people need to understand that from this Step three days ago when we are discussing the prerequisites so that we do not go into the obligations we have to our lenders next week, the opposition has not given a single idea, written or oral, in the minutes of this House, of how this country should go further. We've only been left on one criticism. This criticism is being made in the case of channels and television. But here, we're not a morning show or lunch or the 20:00 news or 21: 00. I hope, later or tomorrow, that there will be proposals in the debate in writing. For three days now, we've heard everything. We've combed all the articles. We disagree, we agree, we vote, we do not vote. We need suggestions. Isn't the Greek voter entitled to hear proposals? Yesterday I said in my report, for example, about the issue of online gambling and about how he loses the public 2,000,000 or 3,500,000 euros a year from black gambling. What does the government have to do to raise that money? Is he supposed to do something? Do we all have to work together? I have a report, which I promised to give tomorrow, tomorrow to the Minister responsible, and we will discuss together. Is there any other party that has ideas about how to collect the 2,000,000-3,000,000,000,000 of the black gambling from Greece, so that we can all lighten the tax burden or a piece of VAT from a layer of the Greek population? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u174	We don't have a conference. The bill we're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u175	Is there any way we can collect and control all of us together, as I have said, currency exchanges, which in the last five, six years have dried up the Greek market by sending black money abroad or using illegally consigned people? Mechanisms exist. Do you want us all to work together to lighten the Greek people from the unbearable perhaps measures that we are forced to impose today? I think everyone together should bring ideas on how to do it and take the lead in that. Do we all want to do something about pawn shops, which beat the Greek people? And I'm not afraid to use that strict word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u176	Do it yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u177	We'll all do it together! We'll do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u178	All together!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u179	All together!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u180	We're not a conference!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u181	No, it's not a conference! I couldn't agree more. But we are saying the logic here, because there must also be a programme, because we are lying about the parallel programme. If I tell you this is a parallel program, will you applaud it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u182	This is the parallel program!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u183	No, I'm saying if I tell you this is a parallel program with lists, gambling! Let me remind you that the Prime Minister of Greece has declared that the bill on the traceability of tobacco products is ready. He's coming to the House. Are we all going to vote together? Do we know what this means costly to the Greek economy? Do we know how many billions? It's specifically the billions we're getting away with. If we all help to vote for this, we will just lighten all the burden that we have to bear on almost all of us together, whether we agree or disagree - because the next day of Greece is about the families of all of us and not just a portion of the Greeks - and go further to find income for the state, which unfortunately are fleeing. I talked about competitiveness. I am again informing the SYRIZA Government and the relevant ministers who are honoured to be with us at the moment that cases that have emerged in the last month, such as the one "VOLKSWAGEN" with the scam on engines, will start to employ the media and all of us from next week, if they do not override the media lobbys in relation to "HOCHTIEF" and the returns to the municipalities of the region, where the airport operates in relation to the fees. I am presenting the relevant written information to the municipalities about the non-payment of fees to the Greek State. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, the triangular transactions that are part of the bill, but unfortunately there were two German companies left behind. And here the Greek Government must move along with you. You have to chase us, check us out and remind us of what we did with the triangular sales of the two German companies that hid profits in pricing abroad, Greece, the models that were released and sold in Greece. Bring us the issues and check us out, 'cause we might forget about it. We've got too much...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u184	Tell us about the document you filed for the fees. What position are you taking? Will you vote against them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u185	My position is that the fees should be paid to the municipalities, provided that services are provided as provided by the law. Whatever the law says. I like being legal. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4172, because we're having a conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u186	So you're going to vote against Article 13?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u187	We're not having a conversation now. The bill said we were voting on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u188	We are tabling and saying our opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u189	We are speaking of our opinion. We are making a criticism of ourselves and of the government and of you and everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u190	Tell the government to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u191	Your government brought in the summer of 2012 an excellent provision, which - Mr. Harry is missing now, knew it - about changing the tax house abroad. For me that arrangement in the summer of '12 came for specific reason for the Lagard list. There was a paragraph in which, if I could state with a simple translation from a Luxembourg or Swiss canton that my partner, my child, my wife, divorced or not, lives there, I could say a tax home there and never touch me the Greek tax system. This provision was made by the New Democracy Government in the summer of 2012 in PASOK. 4172. He came and came in '12 that I found, when I entered the House, when the circular came from Mrs. Savvaidou early in May to pass the House. I brought her to Mrs. Valavani at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u192	Did she vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u193	Yes, it was voted. I have brought Mrs Valavani to the House to correct it and to see again which Greek citizens took advantage of the law of the change of tax residence with a simple statement and saved the tax control with this paragraph. There are also some issues that have come to my attention these days and outside the House, speaking with the world. The pervert of my neighborhood this morning when I went to pick up my newspaper said to me: "We'll all put POS, but Dimitri, 3% of my cigarettes. If it takes me 2% of the card, who am I gonna work for? I also get 2% off the press, from the papers. If it takes me 2% of the card, who will I work for?" That is something we should all see together. I say that to the tax administration of the state. The banks, in other words, should see the percentage they keep in all transactions, because our aim is to escape tax evasion and tax evasion. If he does not make money or enters or works at the expense of his business, any businessman from using the electronic payment system, then he will press, not use it, he will ask for cash or he will not cut proof or do something he will not want. On the other hand, I also inform, to record all this, that in all these businesses, which are a large part of the fabric of Greek society and serve the whole world and all of us, I also want to inform the banks and the government's financial staff that valeur is three days, when they themselves are forced to pay cash the next day. We must see this in a society. I can't keep a man's money, who has to pay cash the next day, I like a bank. Let us see it and make a special suggestion to the Banking Union. As far as the funds are concerned, I would like to say that the order has come and I was informed yesterday by the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Police Officers in relation to an application he has made. I've got two notes. I'll leave them in the Minutes of the House. I have kept notes - they are specific - in relation to the request they made in the summer, since two extensions had been made for the establishment of the Insurance Fund that abolishes a provision of the law, turns back to July, and while the specific Federation of Police Officers was totally legitimate and has a fortune of 220 billion - I will ask two questions on this, because we have to check and we - loses and cancels a purely private fund, it is not public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u194	Will you vote for that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u195	I say it's problematic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u196	Will you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u197	I'll fix it. I have to vote for it, but I will fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u198	Don't vote for it, that's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u199	If I wanted to lie, because I haven't learned to lie, I wouldn't have said it at all. The easiest, colleague, was not to mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u200	Mr Kammene - and I would ask colleagues too - to confine yourself to what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u201	I mean, and I'm filing the federation document along with the analog study document that had been made at the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u202	Don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u203	And I have a basic question which we should solve as a whole. I like to tell you truths. I don't care who they touch. We're here to tell the truth. This fund has 220 billion fortunes. And your question to the financial staff is this: 220 billion - colleague, I don't know if you know - 110 billion is cash and the other 110 is real estate that the fund is taking advantage of. When this money goes or goes to the single account, the real estate where it goes? I'm asking. I want to know. I'll vote for it. But I'll check it out. I ask it to control myself and to come tomorrow to check me out and say, "You did well and you voted. Demetrio, tell me, now, where did the real estate of the fund go, where was it private? Who's taking advantage of them? How many policemen make of this?" Why should we say here that police officers through this money - without plundering, but that's the truth - helped people and families of colleagues who have fallen into duty and who have made...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u204	But you're voting for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u205	Wait a minute, we'll see. Here we are. We're in control. You want me to hide it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u206	But you're gonna vote for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u207	I didn't hear it from you. Why didn't you say that three days?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u208	Don't vote for it so it won't pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u209	Yesterday we said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Miriazides, Mr. Cammene, wait a minute. Wait a minute, please. Stop, Mr. Kyriazidis, interrupt Mr. Kammenos, because he will have every right to ask for extra time. And from what they're telling us, he'll get the floor right after Mr. Kammenos, I guess Mr. Meimarakis. Well, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u211	I feel quiet with myself that I honestly say the problems I see in society. We're here to solve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u212	The government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u213	A similar programme is also available for the ports who have lost the deadline. I would ask that the Secretariat receive this document as well, which is the equivalent of the Port Fund which, due to the change of law, has lost the deadline. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In closing, we mustn't get any further. I'm waiting for the Opposition to get us her program. Simple as that! We say what we don't like. We used to hear that the only program is the Memorandum, we love it, we have love letters with abroad, we love them very much, they are our people, 'what should we do?' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Election did not hear about a programme anymore. Well, now, we don't hear about any other proposal. Proposal! Make a suggestion. Criticizing us is nice. But you must also be positive when we bring problems to control. It's good and honest. You should tell the coworkers because you're the police here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u214	We made two votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u215	I say this: I will leave in the Minutes - because everyone sees us now - the impact once again of 61 billion and 58 billion of the measures of the New Democracy and PASOK on Greek society are all the figures in public. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your patience. And I want to say here - because people do not know - that we were saying the beginning of time because we turned the 11 billion back and why we did not take the preventive credit line, which had as a prerequisite - that the world did not know - a strict memorandum, strict surveillance. It was therefore also called enhanced credit, i.e. it had enhanced surveillance with specific measures. I said it last time, and I do not want to give it up again and get tired: more than 12 billion plus the surpluses. It was unequivocal. Money wasn't there and there weren't because we weren't on the market. Now we all need to help society go further, bring creative proposals, build growth. And to help calmly everyone, to turn bank deposits, to finish the assessment, to get the money into the banks, to come to private individuals to invest in the banks, to return the deposits so that this economy can have a healthy base, healthy pillars to borrow, to create a transaction, so that this economy can develop. Because new jobs will not bring about the problems that we have to deal with in the insurance sector, which I have been able to read for an hour from the study. It's worthwhile, good. Yeah, he says a lot of things, but we all have to work very hard together. Because with browsing and political controversy without suggestions and control by one or the other, this country will not go anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u216	We will give the floor to Mr Mario Georgiadis, a special speaker from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u217	Good evening, Mr. President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us start our criticism of the government's main argument, which was elected in this Parliament. Let's forget the habits. And what I would like to mention is Article 2: 'Regions on the Single Property Tax', on the ENPIA and its preservation. Let us forget the habits you have announced so far, with regard to the abolition of burdensome taxes. Do you really think it is social law to continue to collect money from people based on their property and property? Do you not know that taxes should be applied solely on the basis of income rather than on the basis of citizens' farms? Aren't you worried about that? Didn't find any equivalent, so we could get rid of HISBIA? Let me quote in outlines: ninety-three thousand early old age pensions, which, based on the age group of twenty-five - five, according to the IRS statistics, have an average of 1,200 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u218	"HLIO" you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u219	Sure. If you make simple calculations, you could see the amount saved through these pensions. And I'm not talking about their total abolition, even their limitation. Multiple pensions, double, triple and even fifteen, amount to EUR 4 500 some of them. Aren't there bells ringing for your left mentality? Do you need committees of wise men, so you can draw a conclusion? The following legislation caused symbolic sensitivity: The rate of tax up to EUR 1 is not established and it is not due. If we give you congratulations it would be the least ironic for that. However, we wonder if it was not EUR 1 and it was EUR 10, how much would this loss to the state budget be? Only the working hours a civil servant wants to classify, notify and record the collection are greater than the actual receipts the state will make. Didn't anyone think of that? We're abducting. The procedure for collecting an amount should be considered on the basis of the amount as such. And after all, how will a citizen feel about you if he is invited to go to the bank's guise to pay 2 euros? You know, respect for the citizen is also our attitude toward him. When you think that every citizen is obliged to go with a card per hand, to wait in line, to leave his job to pay EUR 1,10 is the least disgraceful and the least you should expect from that citizen is to deceive you in turn. Let's go to more tax matters. Reporting tax evasion crimes in criminal proceedings. In studying these legislative proposals, we would ask you to give you some advice and it would be a pleasure for us to hear. No matter how strict you do tax evasion laws, no matter how much you increase the prison sentence, you're not gonna get a single euro. Those who don't have to pay, they won't pay you, even torture to make them. But those who are willingly not paying are not convinced of the hostile and aggressive tactics you are following. In order to pay you the tax, it should be convinced that his money will get a place, it should be convinced that the state respects it. This is how fiscal consciousness is cultivated and not by orders. The Left is supposed to be against persecution and compulsion. And since when has the Left been like a moto - could I say - "we've been handcuffing citizens to pay"? Illegality is culminating in the provision that if someone finds himself practicing a profession without starting up, he is charged with a fine equal to 50% of the VAT that should have been paid for the entire duration of his financial activity. And we wonder how you'll catch him so you can see the evidence he hasn't cut out of the bags he's sold? You're going to make parafiscal charges? Do you have a black book on the stools for use by the underworld? Or will you rely on that black seller's confession? Couldn't you just set a sum? We are now going to the legislation, which gives a clear signal to the economic policy you want to take this country. Chapter 2, Article 10: ‘No fees shall be charged by the Local Government agencies to natural or legal persons to whom the State entrusts the provision of a service or to carry out a project related to the development of land or marine land’. I just want to make it understandable, even for the citizen who doesn't understand what we're saying in here. There are two fillets - so called - plots, one by the other, seaside. One is public property and the other is the property of a ordinary citizen. The businessman who comes to make a business, for example a beach bar, for the fillet of public property, is exempted from fees, while the private person is asked to pay them. This legislation should be a fundamental principle of the free economy for how everyone should be treated equally and equally, without exceptions and asterisks. It is politically, economically and morally unacceptable that a public works contractor should be discharged and that an equal and perhaps better contractor should start from a negative point of view. Are government factors already being prepared for a generation of younger interoperable and opaque? Are some in the government already preparing to degrade the country from the last growth effort? We do not want a state with officials on thrones who choose who will become rich and who will be poor. We do not want a state that distributes privileges directly to factors in the private economy. We want the rule of law and development that creates the same opportunities, a regulator state, not a ruler of the free economy. Even at this very moment, it must be understood by the government that, when we ask for growth within the European Union, we must follow the fundamental rules of the free economy and that everyone has the right to equal opportunities. From there on it is in the hands of every businessman - whether he is capable - whether he is rich or poor. Article 1(7): ‘Masters of the Armed Forces shall not be obliged to leave the service before the 50th year of their age is completed’. You have, of course, increased this, but I would remind you that you have on the boats to increase for all sixty-five years and to make it sixty-seven. I think that immediately there should be a separation between the fighting uniforms and the simple uniforms, which are chairmen and simply put a seal in statements that they accept in the public sector. It is the least scandalous not to treat anyone equally. There are fifty-five, sixty and sixty-five people who are even fighting now to make a cut. They need time to spend with their family, even their grandchildren, and yet they have extensive manual work. All of us here in Parliament know that there are builders, oil-colourers, plumbers, electricians, operators and drivers of heavy vehicles that are really fed for the partition. Have you ever felt the agony and courage of such a man who is called to work until sixty-five and sixty-seven? Is his job less painful than a sealed uniform? But isn't all these private sector people a well-integrated client group to draw votes in the next election? Is the private sector not too sure to give you its vote raining - snow? Go on, get out and tell this employee that he doesn't deserve to have the same pension rights as the uniform - to repeat and become tiring and graphic - that sticks to seals. What are you going to tell him? "Is that how we found them and continue them?" Is that why the privileged groups voted for you? In this culture of perpetuating customer relations, we wonder why you still show sympathy. We Centroons are the ones who will show you who the left government is? Are we the centrals more left than the left that you call? We're not afraid to pull the snake out of the hole and we're not afraid to say things by their name. We have lost no vote, and we are not afraid to lose it in the future, because this mass of people has not voted for us. We ask for equality, equality of rights for all. No one's more civilian than anyone else. Whether it's traded or not, whether it's uniform or once politically questioned, we look at the work produced and we reward it accordingly. That is what the justice that must finally come to the Greek Parliament and become unpleasant for some. Justice was never made to be pleasant. The rule of law was invented to live in a state governed by moral principles rather than jungle and opacity laws. If you want us allies, stop closing your eye on specific teams with customer relationships. That's because of the large abstention rate. In conclusion, we are not here to report you. We're not a protest party, we're not a protest party. We are here to make constructive criticism. If you have listened carefully to my speech, you will see that along with my criticism - Mr Kammenos also said that none of the opposition is bringing forward proposals - we are here to bring you proposals. And we have sent them to you in writing with our nine points. If you make the same mistakes as the governments of the past, we're sure you're lost by hand. If you don't learn history, you're doomed to relive it. Mr Papadopoulos, as you quite rightly said in your report, we have taken care of it at first, but in the hope that, on the basis of the amendments, we will have a substantial effect. On the basis of this bill we have in our hands, we are obliged to say no in our turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u220	Wait till you hear the answers from the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u221	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-five students and students and three attendants of their educational sessions from the 1st Municipal School of Ovreas Achaias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Meymarakis, has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the day after the elections, the myths that SYRIZA had built are falling apart and are revealing day after day that the partners - Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos - have, in our view, set up a political fraud. It turns out that Mr. Tsipras was completely mutated and became a Troika Memorandum. The bill we're discussing today is another proof. Unfortunately, however, it is neither the first nor the last. From the outset, I should like to tell you that neither memorials nor memorials have played it, because we said from the outset that the Memorandum is a necessary policy for the country to come out of the crisis which, unfortunately, had hit it. You have defined the false, the plotted dilemma for the Memorandum - Antimony. And today you understand that this is a policy which, unfortunately, we must implement. Your political fraud began to be revealed first of all because it was deliberately postponed for the next election. I am referring both to those relating to income tax which, as you were all saying in an election, were supposed to be reduced and to those relating to ENPI, which would be completely abolished. And this political fraud is revealed through the increases that started a week after the elections. Increase in advance contributions from 55% to 75%. Increase the focus VAT and a range of products to 23%. Increase all VAT rates by 30% on several islands to go gradually to everything. Increase in twice the VAT on hotels. 30% increase in the solidarity levy. Increase the tax on premiums. But even more clearly, this political fraud is revealed through the preliminary draft budget that reserves EUR 6.5 billion of austerity measures, of which EUR 5 billion, ladies and gentlemen, are additional taxes and pension cuts. Political fraud is also revealed through this multi-legislative bill we are now discussing, a bill that is going to the bottom of all those election reassurances Mr Tsipras gave for changes, improvements to the measures already agreed and which could go back to Brussels to change. If he now tells us he forgot about it, he must know that neither the world nor the National Representation is forgetting it. And here we are to remind him of it all the time and to hear it from the Greek people. At the same time as Mr Tsipras signed the Memorandum, he had begun to promise compensatory, equivalent to social, with a positive figure of almost everything he feared. And one who was most afraid of it was left behind - the tails we are talking about - from pensions and zero deficit clauses to IPTO and rural ones. At the same time, he presented a parallel program that we have never understood how this will be implemented and will also have the luck, apparently, of the Thessaloniki programme. In an interview with REAL NEWS on 30-8-2015, he argued there was room for negotiation, for compensation, for a fairer burden-sharing. He also assured, on 10-9-2015, that all of these things we have and we can give them to you - that he opposes the pension cut and said: "Our general direction is to find common resources and not the permanent cycle of cuts applied by the previous government." It confirmed on 17-9-2015 that the compensatory and equivalent plan is ready. In fact, we were asking: Since he had it ready, why didn't he go through with it, but he signed any more? Today, from this bill you have introduced, Minister, two things are revealed. The first is that from what Mr. Tsipras said, nothing is true, it's all a lie. Everything was part of a ruthless political fraud, an extremist populism, an irresponsible demagogic proposal. That is why you have now held elections, so that people do not know what we had voted as an emergency in one day on 14 August, and that you can bring them now. And the second fraud revealed, ladies and gentlemen, is that the worst is coming. Others come which will be much worse. And it seems, in fact, that Mr Tsipras and his Government not only bring any improvement, but they retain these worst regulations that have deliberately left open. Gradually, one after another, his ministers began to light up the lines that were preoccupied, hiding them very well to deceive the world and to guard their vote. Election has ruled out any reduction in pensions and post-elections baptise those who receive pensions close to the grand, as we were told, while the competent Minister, Mr. Katrugalos, announces cuts that no one yet knows where to go. Electionally, they said they would look for additional resources to save pensions. Meteologically? They are still failing to reduce all the resources of the insurance funds. And while by 2014, according to the data we have, undeclared work was limited, from the beginning of 2015 it began to grow again. And while in 2014 unemployment had started gradually, slowly, to decrease, in recent months it has again risen. In July the balance between recruitment and redundancies was the worst of the last 15 years. In September he wrote the second worst performance with thirteen thousand jobs lost. On other issues, however, Mr. Tsipras also made a commitment to absolute protection of the first residence, excluding the assignment of red business, but also housing, loans to foreign funds. At the beginning of this week, on Monday, the relevant Minister, Mr Stathakis, revealed that red loans are negotiated with the institutions. We invited them and invited them to take care of them, not to hand over the homes of the world, the Greek people, who allegedly hurt him, to the foreign funds. Don't dare or think about it! The New Democracy, as a whole, will be perverse to this! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I must tell you that the New Democracy will stand with responsibility and patriotism, as in the previous period, and now, in the face of the needs of the country's society and economy. We proved this in practice when the previous government of SYRIZA - ANEL dragged the country on the brink of Grexit, bankruptcy, chaos. We proved this at the meeting of the political leaders with the President of the Republic. We proved this then when the Group of Parliament, like other parliamentary groups, came together, we authorised the government to negotiate to keep the country in the euro. We are now proving this and we will prove it, confirming once again everything we have said in the election. We, in any case, support changes that bring new investments. We support changes that bring new businesses, new jobs. We support regulations against corruption, interoperable, undeclared work, tax evasion. That's it. No, however, in pension cuts, not in tax increases, not another reduction in the income of the ambulances! So our party is clear. Determination of responsibility, consistency and trust. What we have been rejecting as government is not going to accept it now as Opposition. What we were saying in the election is not going to fail. What we announced, we don't give up. Based on our principles, we are voting against the bill you have brought! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are voting against the plan first because it increases retroactively, from what has been recorded, the taxes on immovable property. We are also waiting for the new arrangements that you have said you will bring, but so far the provisions remain. We expect to see if there are any changes. The plan abolishes discounts, exemptions from HNVIA, established by our own government. And, indeed, you were telling us that it was too heavy the HIS tax and you would have completely abolished it. So what are you waiting for, now? That by expanding the ENPIA, you're covering the promise you made that you would take him down? That you're going to increase the revenues if you take out small, tourist family units? That it is not enough to increase VAT on hotels and further hits are needed? Furthermore, in your original proposal, gentlemen of the conflict, there was an increase in rent tax. You also had the inspiration to impose taxes even on unrealistic rents, taxes on nonexistent incomes. And you withdrew it after the reaction of ours. The specific reaction of the whole Opposition has made you withdraw it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You said it was a mistake. The Minister told us he didn't have to. But it was something very important. We're keeping that. Why do we keep it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Because that proves that the collection policies are your own proposals. It's not the troikas. They set the targets. You put the proposals for the implementation of the objectives and the collections. It is therefore clear once again that VAT on education, Mr Minister, is your proposal, as is this tax which you have put on and withdrawn. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So withdraw him with the same ease. We are voting against it, secondly, because the bill abolishes pensions for older people and, secondly, increases contributions to engineers and other free professionals, overcoming newly adopted regulations. Why? Didn't you say, gentlemen of the government, that there would be no pension cuts? Didn't you say that the protection of pensions is a red line? What's changed? Is this all dealing with injustices? Does it have a social mark? Is that a consequence? Is it socially sensitive? On the occasion of this, I would like to say that you will be careful whether the regulation on medicinal products will ultimately lead to a system which will have the effect of withdrawing many cheap medicines from the market and being replaced by more precise ones, which, of course, are imported. We must have low-priced medicines and at the same time ensure production in Greece, because that means employment, contributions, investment in the country. So discuss the arrangement again. Thirdly, we are voting against the bill because it abolishes preventive control by the Court of Auditors. We, as we have told you, have raised the limit for preventive control to EUR 30,000 to reduce delays and to eliminate bureaucracy. Then you voted against it and told us that it should not be the case. Today, you come to the margin of the Court of Auditors. Really, why? What do you want to hide? Who are you trying to help? What are you afraid of? Whatever you think about it, forget it. The New Democracy cannot and must not accept any opaque procedure. There will be no attempt to marginalise independent institutions contributing to sound financial management. And really, gentlemen of the government, as I see you here, what about this "inhabitant"? Aren't you going to answer us? Will you let a shadow be drawn to all the ministers? Does not anyone feel the government's need to say, 'I'm not me', 'I'm not me', 'I'm not me'? And does he not feel the need for him to say, "I'm me", to finish? How's this going to go? Is that a Quiz? It's about the Greek people! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is not a quiz, ladies and gentlemen. They're not helping the political system at all. They're not helping political dialogue. Whoever it is, get out of here and tell us to get it over with. And I say to you that this is what colleagues are calling for by a majority. The Greek people are asking for it. We are also voting against this bill because, in addition to others, it closes the eyes to the professional tax-raisers. And you're doing it - be careful! - For the second time round. First, you set hundreds of doses and millionaires and those with a debt of one million. And who? And they before 2008, before the crisis, which doesn't make sense, had many debts and wanted to get into the arrangement. And now you're giving them more millions overnight. With this bill you give excessive powers and discretion to the subjective management crisis. But since there will be a subjective view and they will come to an agreement, a transaction can occur. There's going to be an outbreak of corruption again, which is what we've left before. And why are you fueling the transaction with this provision? What's he serving, Minister, this? You must explain to the House. We see that the more objective procedures exist, the more e-government's understanding of administration with the citizen, the less corruption, the more transaction is reduced. Why do they have to meet again, talk again? The Prime Minister himself told America that there are many times under the transaction table. Now you're coming to legalize this one by this particular provision? Why do you not set objective and objective criteria so that there is no subjective management crisis? Of course, increase penalties. At the same time, however, you are also increasing the amounts over which tax evasion offences are haunted. And you're raising it a lot, too. Why is that? Does anyone benefit and increase them so much? Is anyone far below that and you thought about him? Fifthly, we are voting against it because the bill gives full surprise to the microprocessors who have entered the regulation of the hundred instalments, who will see the interest rate increased, to reduce the monthly instalments of their regulation. You told us how good this arrangement would be and that it was one of the first bills and that you didn't hear the troika. And finally, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens were caught, trapped by the government, deceived, in accordance with the terms, with the state. And now the state is coming unilaterally and changing the terms. Finally, this much-advertised hundred - dose adjustment was converted into fiasco, became more expensive and limited to fewer. Speaking to the House on the vote on the memorandum, you argued that there is a possibility of changing measures, improving, compensating, finding measures with fewer negative social effects. The government is finally doing - and we see - the equation downwards, the redistribution of misery. At the same time, I would say to you, you are also creating so-called enemies. After the Memorandum was written, did the government build another enemy? He baptizes our fellow citizens who receive a salary of about EUR 1,500 and a pension near EUR 1,000, as Mr Katrugalos told us and said before. Ultimately, the construction of enemies seems to be the oil that maintains the cinnamon on its Left nothing. Because it's nothing! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now, however, the oil ends and the citizens see who this Left is. We, I told you, will be faithful to our statements. That is why, firstly, we are voting against the plan. Secondly, we look forward to the articles that try even cowardly to promote structural change. We reserve it, because we do not trust you and want to see the final form of the articles in question. Because if we tell you that this article we are voting on it, you may put a strange amendment there because, unfortunately, this is how you legislate. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are, however, clear that we are voting against articles introducing disastrous regulations. We say no to tax raid, not to new wage cuts and pensions, not to another reduction in people's incomes, because these are measures that take the country back, they do not take it forward. They are measures which degrade social cohesion, do not strengthen it. They're measures that erod social justice, they don't shield it. These are measures that increase unemployment, do not reduce it. They're measures that shrink economic activity, they don't magnify it. These are measures, after all, which make us all poorer. They minimize GDP pie, increase unemployment, bring weak and, most importantly, motivate and strengthen extreme voices and populists. I would like to stress, furthermore, that there is a lot in this multi-project that Mr Tsipras had committed himself, which is not included and will come. Unfortunately, the worst is in front of us. I recall the increase in taxation on farmers, this regulation of red loans, the liberalisation of professions and the abolition of CSR and the equivalent of 23% VAT on education. As I see the Minister, I can tell you that we have heard you on a show that you said that from three, four cases of tax evasion that will soon be cleared up, you will find the equivalents. It seems that you either have special relations with justice and have told you how much these equivalents will be, or you need to analyse us here. Because this is not a broadcast, it is the House and you have to give a reason for what you have said. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So we call on the government not to forget what he said. Two things, ladies and gentlemen, you were proud of. First, that you would not sign a memorandum. You told us, 'We will not sign a memorandum'. Secondly, you were proud of the advantage of morality, because you do not have any involvement with illegality and complications. They both collapsed today. And you signed a Memorandum, which is the worst, and officials of your Government are now inspected for "wherever you" and you must reply soon. So Mr. Tsipras should be given a seat. Because our party told the Greeks the truth, because our choices have been vindicated because we are putting the common good above all, we have the courage to look at our fellow citizens in the eyes, we have the courage to make tours, go to the villages, go to the cafes and tell them that we have not promised anything. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the face of the tax storm that began, in the face of the irresponsibleness and inadequacy and the strange and suspicious circumstances of the government, we are committed to responsible dynamic opposition. It will be our compass, our country's interests! Our parliamentary group backed last summer to keep the country in the euro. But to end this story at the end, because I hear many shows, but today we voted on the memorandum. Yes, we voted for the programme which lays down objectives and timetables. The measures are yours and they have Tsipras - Kammenos signature. They're not ours. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So bring other measures with a positive sign, so that we can help you. This is our goal, not the measures, but how will the country go to stay in the euro, stay in the euro zone. So the fairy tale 'you voted for' does not apply, ladies and gentlemen. We authorised you to sign the programme, we voted for the programme that provides for objectives and timetables, and you would bring measures with a social and a positive sign. Now, vote for your own, because they are antisocial, because they create a problem in society and we vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u224	We will now give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with an observation that has to do with the procedure. When we were opposition for two and a half years, the rapporteurs first spoke to the bills and then the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u226	Unfortunately, I have to leave, catch the plane.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u227	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u228	You weren't opposition two and a half years, you were opposition thirty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u229	Don't start such clever now, Mr. Tasoula. Oh, my God. The worst thing is to think there's a sense of humor when it doesn't. It's one of the worst things anyone's dealing with. I think you're making this mistake. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Well, I think this process the rapporteurs first speak and then the ministers hear and answer is better. I would like the Bureau to think about it, because it is a process that has more impact and I think we can think about it again. To show why, in practice, this is better, I want to make some comments, some clarifications from what I have heard yesterday and today. The first clarification is about what this bill is about. This bill is the things we have agreed on. The criticism of what we have negotiated is not true, because we have made it very clear what the things we have put into the band we will renegotiate - red loans, industrial relations, pensions - and what we have agreed on. So there is no such criticism. That is a package of what we agreed with the institutions. And he's not even here in front of all forty-eight prerequisites. It's not here forty-eight prerequisites, because they're also ministerial decisions, they're also circulars. In other words, it is 12 - 15 of what we need to go through to liberate the first dose that will be the 2 billion that we need for the delays. Let me make some other clarifications about Mr. Loverdos and others that have been mentioned in this regard. Our strategy for the single fund, which would be all the actors in the general government, was to manage from the economic point of view, namely to have a higher interest rate, to have a longer duration, to have economies of scale. It was never our intention that local government or universities could not make their money, as would be if there were a privileged testimony to someone else...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u230	We are not listening, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u231	I'd be beg for quiet. And those colleagues who want to discuss each other can come out. I'd be beg for quiet. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u232	We are ready in any form. This will be clarified, Mr. Loverdos. And anyone else wants to help us clarify this matter. The President, who had to leave, raised a matter of urgency at the Court of Auditors. We do not, as he has said, abolish preventive control. We are abolishing preventive controls on payments. In general, control is not abolished, since both preventive control remains at the stage of the preparation of public procurement, pre-contractual and repressive control. The aim is, on the one hand, that there should be no delay in the payment procedures and, on the other, that the financial services themselves should be responsible so that they can carry out the payments properly. You will allow me to refer to a more general issue. The President has said so, and colleagues and colleagues have said so on both sides that we must have a great deal of transparency and that we must have rules in all these procedures. That's not entirely right. In other words, we must also trust civil servants to have some discretion. If we do not trust them with the civil servants and we do not gradually go on a path that we trust them, we will constantly have more and more laws. Anyone who has lived and worked at the Greek university, who has lived and knows the public administration, knows that not all things can be explained so much by the rules. So it takes civil servants to slowly take some responsibility as well. Of course - and I say this to the Minister responsible for the reform of the public sector - we must find a compromise between the rules, control, and also give the discretion to professional civil servants, to make decisions, to have a crisis. Because the public sector will never work in this country. We have to go with the civil servants and be able to really professionals, who know the job, know what the issues are, and they can make decisions. Otherwise, there is this problem that you have all told you in the three years that I have been here in this House, that we have many legislation, many rules, and that is because we do not have this relationship with the public sector. I want to clarify one more thing. This bill we have is not our project as a whole and therefore there can be no criticism that it is material. Whether it is or isn't materialistic will be from many measures that will come in the next period, if the investments will be released. To clarify only to the rapporteur in the New Democracy, who perhaps did not hear the debate in the programme statements, does not repeat any arguments that have been made in order to be able to continue. You said, Mr President, that other things said the draft budget, but the Prime Minister said. That's not true. I have explained to you in the debate on the programming statements that the Prime Minister knows, as I know, what the trend is for the third quarter. And it's better. It's not the recession that big. However, this could not be formulated in the preliminary draft budget for the simple reason that in the preliminary draft you should go with the information published. And we have information that has been published. So I say not to go on with the same arguments so that we can move on with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u233	It was a positive growth rate, not a slow recession.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u235	You three, where did you get it from?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u236	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u237	I don't mind. I'll answer Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u238	If that's what you want, Minister. Then you'll complain because you're interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u239	He's asking Mr. Voridis which I know about. As you can see, there's always evidence. We also have indicators showing what the results are likely to be. They are indicators which provide for the final result on investments and consumption. So from that I can tell you that our assessment and assessment of the HR is that there will be no this recession that we have all expected. There'll be a recession, but it'll be much smaller. If you want me to share who are those indicators that make me and I am optimistic, I am delighted to do so after my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u240	We want a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u241	Now let me clarify a few things about tax evasion and taxation. Mr Karathanasopoulos said - rightly so - that in a capitalist system, as we have, it is very difficult to catch the whole of tax evasion and that big businesses and more resources have lawyers and accountants, as well as that it is extremely difficult with all these countries that act as tax havens. You're absolutely right, but I'd like to make two corrections to what you're saying. Firstly, there is a trend and very large movements that have worked in recent years in this direction and the public debate has changed. If you see the ant against very large American companies, such as one that has coffee or one that sells books, to understand what I'm saying, you see that even the OECD now creates a new framework to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u242	He did the same in 2000.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u243	Mr Karthanasopoulos, I would not comment on this if I were not worried about anything else that is more problematic in the position of the JRC. You said, "they are the big monopolies, they can always go away, and then the burden will fall on the poor." I say that in a capitalist system they will always get away enough, but they will not be 'whether they will escape or they will not escape'. But, Mr Karathanasopoulos, between monopolies and the poor there is a very wide range. Social, class stratifications do not have the big entrepreneurs, the bankers and the poor, but they have a very large range. These are the wealthy doctors, for example, for whom Mr Theocharis asked a question - listen, Mr Theocharis - who said: 'But why not check, since there will be no VAT?' The answer is that, when we find that they do not cut evidence, they will not receive a fine, but there will be a general check. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Two comments on this. One is the same thing that I have done to the President of the New Democracy that we must be able to retrospectively control people who have been evaded. And what's the difference with Greece and America, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, to explain this to you? A Greek doctor can make a million, be a university and declare 20,000-30,000 euros to Greece. In America he can make a million and a half dollars and declare 800,000, because he knows that IRS if he gets caught and runs data check on him, that is, what school his kids take, where he goes on holiday, what house he has, he's gonna break him up and so he says 800,000. Is that the perfect thing? No, he had to say a million and a half, but don't let the perfect always be an enemy of the good. This is what we are trying, in our general strategy for tax evasion, to have a taxation policy that is for the normal stratification of the Greek society, which is not just rich or poor, and a policy that does not make it perfect to be an enemy of the good, but is trying in specific groups that you can make money to make more. Now comes the other question that many of you have put on fines, which are Articles 3, 7 and 8, which I don't have much time and I don't want to develop. In some we criticise that we are very strict, that we will also take people's lockers, to some that we are not strict enough. I would like to tell you that in these matters there is no correct answer, because there is always in tax evasion the same issue - a dilemma that exists in the courts. What's better? A guilty man to escape prison or an innocent person to go to jail? Usually the answer they give to the courts is, I imagine, the worst thing is an innocent person to go to jail. These dilemmas are exactly what exist in this bill and this tax evasion. Where do you put the fine? You might put it so high no one's gonna pay for it. Where are you going to put the check? How long will you look? You can do it so much that you won't get the money. Or you can make it backwards, or it's less control, lower fine, and get more money. That is what I say to you that a responsible government looks at them, looks at them, re-examines them, because there is no correct response to them. You try it, you try it, and you see if you've put, for example, the fine so high that it didn't give you the expected revenues, so with a lower fine you can get more. It is a question of crisis, to come back to the question and to the debate I have had before. So not only public administration, not just universities, even MPs and politicians must implement and make laws that leave a discreet crisis. If they cannot do this in society, know that we will never escape a crisis that causes us many problems, because it creates many problems in how management is. I want to say a few things about insurance and pensions. What this bill makes with some arrangements is when they will be implemented and how exactly the laws of 2010 and 2012 will apply. If I'm not mistaken, we didn't have a SYRIZA government in 2010 or 2012. So I would expect, if not a humility, at least an effort to be a little stubborn with criticism and not to make such a big attack on what SYRIZA is doing in pensions, when we are forced to apply the laws that you supported and even said "that if there were no such reforms, we would implement them", while some of your ministers, who are now candidates, said "I do these, no bad troika". I have to tell you that what is in the pensions is what was agreed. We had discussed them all on 14 August, and what actually changes with this bill is when these provisions begin. I said - and I will close my speech, because I cannot get into all the issues, more on taxation you will hear from Mr Alexiadis and from the other ministers who are here - in my speech in the programming declarations that we have a very big problem as a society, as a country, as a government and as a parliament, that we have too many institutions and too many policies that do not respond or do not respond to the problems they have to answer. I said, for example, that VAT cannot give a solution to the poor of Rhodes, so we must have an island strategy for these islands. I said the same thing about the farmers. The same goes for - to say a new example - for medicines. Is the right answer for our pharmaceutical industry to the price strategy, or should we have a more general industrial policy aimed at medicines and other sectors in other ways? That is the question that a parliament would discuss very seriously, that is, how we will do it and not play football, saying that "you did this here and we did the other thing there." I would like to say to you that there are very serious issues, starting from now on and until we get away with, get the first assessment, make the recapitalisation of banks, make the debate on debt, go back to development and discuss our development model, in which our main theme is to find institutions and policies that respond to the corresponding problem that they can answer. The JRC and other parties who say that there is a social problem are absolutely right, because it does not help the poor who lose his job at fifty-seven or fifty-eight years when we reduce early pensions. He's got trouble getting a job. However, the answer to that is that no pension scheme can help it. This is unemployment policy, employment policy, development policy. So if we want to have serious discussions that listen to us out of here about this development model, we need to see which model we want, who will serve, with what tools. In doing so, we will be able to provide solutions for both the poor and the unemployed and those who do not have pensions and who need them and deserve them. This is how the government commits itself to having this debate. So I did not follow your President on fraud, what we said, what you did not say, which I could answer exactly to, because I think the Greek people at the moment hear arguments and the one who has the best arguments with good values that can give a promotion to this society and a light at the end of the tunnel are those who will win, not for themselves, but for society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u244	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Brutsi, has requested the floor. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am succeeding with the Minister of Finance in Step and I would like to begin with an introductory remark on what he has said personally. Minister, I find it hypocritical that the policy wants you to take lessons today in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which refuses to vote for this article and call for repressive control, when you yourself last year around the same day, when the previous government had come the same thing and we were asking, not to abolish preventive control, to raise from 15 000 to 30 000, you personally voted against it for reasons of transparency. That is the truth, Minister, and today, as Minister, you and the government must have the courage and courage to tell the truth. As also, I do not consider it brave or politically moral on your part what you do to blame in the past on things that do not correspond to political groups. So I'll tell you straight away. You made a pension report. You accused Mr. Loverdo, PASOK for the n. 3863 and that those who now come as pension reductions are the result of that law. And I say that I belong to another political party. It's a big lie. Because, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will simply say to you: 2% horizontal reduction in all pensions is of n. 3863 or yours? It's yours. 6% of whose supplementary pension is it, Minister? It's yours. Is the abolition of the ESS of whom is it? It's yours. And along with this overwhelming, what we will discuss on the occasion of this so-called new model of insurance, the great change you have made, you are the first government in Greece - the first government - which, since the establishment of the country's insurance system, changed its social character and made it a capitalisation until the 60th year of age. And I am very anxious to see whether these leaks in newspapers about the so-called 'Soft Committee' - because it is not a Sage Commission, a Katrugalo Commission - are also a SYRIZA committee - ultimately all that is turning the insurance into a capitalist system which is inconsistent with and is not in any European country. Unless you have agreed with the troika to change Europe in a vehicle for SYRIZA and the government and take it really backwards, because that is a regression. It's the abolition of the social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u246	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u247	Oh, is that right, Mr. Chakaloto? Be well! Do you change it backwards, abolishing the social state? Ladies and gentlemen, in my short time, I want to make two - three observations which I consider to be very important. I neither share nor will I dwell on the SYRIZA mutation nor on the dismay of SYRIZA MPs who are placed and use the word, because of the difficult role they have to play, about what they said before and what they say, nor will I stand on the suggestions of MPs who are not acceptable to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group who move the finger to the Greek people and say to them "You voted for them and you know them, so don't talk." I would like to say two - three things which I consider very important for the future of the country, for the Greek people and for the adventures you have put him in. You have condemned and zeroed all the sacrifices of the Greek people, what we had achieved until January with the difficult financial adjustments we have managed to change the economic flow with difficult decisions. Today the Greek people are called upon to suffer difficult measures, reductions in pensions and taxes that did not belong to them. That is why we will be across the street because, with your hypocritical attitude, with your unfair attitude throughout the time you did not contribute to the national effort, we now come to an account with the Greek citizen unjust because he could have been avoided. We had both balanced the insurance and the tax. But you wanted to be a government. You made a negotiation unexistent and signed in blank pages. That was the end of your process. But now we're gonna live it now. You have swinged the finger toward New Democracy and said, 'Tell us suggestions'. I, Minister, will tell you two - three things that I think you have lost your direction on critical social issues from which there were resources. Vangelis Meimarakis, President of the New Democracy, said so. In December 2014, we delivered the undeclared work to 12%. Today it's 23.3%. Why, gentlemen of the government? Why did you cross your hands? How many millions of resources have been lost by this? Unemployment. The unemployment, Minister, we delivered it to you at a level where it had begun to deviate and the other day with your own figures, unemployment at the end of 2016 will be 25.8%, while with macroeconomic models and the troika and the European Union it would be 19.5%, that is an opening of 6.3%, which with the most conservative suggestions due to the Government of SYRIZA, two hundred thousand jobs are lost. For the calculation of the contributions and the circle that would take place in the Greek economy. You have the Minister, Mr. Friend, to whom I wish you a success. Indeed, Minister, you have a difficult agenda. So far you haven't made it. This is the first time Greek schools and children are off courses. But I'm going to stand by something else, 23% of education. He heard you all say and declare two days after taking up your duties... [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Prime Minister and you personally said that you have found the equivalent of three large tax cases of corruption, tax evasion. Are you here today to present them? He would be interested in today's debate and introduction to such a first bill from a number of many bills to come. That means that today you should testify. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down and wish to raise a last point, which is called a hundred instalments. I want to remind you - because we must now also have the historical memory - that the previous government in September 2014 - and I make this report to you because it is a crucial element and how you will move in the future - unilaterally, without the approval of the troika, we have tabled this specific proposal of the hundreds of doses, our own proposal. But then, Minister of Finance, the troika accepted it and began to enter the hundred instalments of the previous government, and then suddenly the "I do not pay", the undermining of national effort under the logic of seismicism began. That's what you were saying. And you brought another law much more satisfying with the hundred doses voted by the vast majority of the Greek parties. That law today, you're getting back. You trapped and cheated hundreds of thousands of Greeks, who believed you, entered the arrangement, and today you are taking it back at a more prejudicial interest rate and the subjective crisis, turning the time back into times dark in the Greek political system, negotiating the doses of the curator or director of IKA. Why did you do it? Is that the transparency of SYRIZA? And since Mr. Skourletis is next to you, Mr. Skourletis, they unfairly blame Mr. Army all these days from all the wings of this House for I am voting for it. It's your responsibility. You were Minister and came here - personally you - and you introduced a bill, with which you gave a pension to the Greek uninsured, who reduced contributions to engineers, doctors and lawyers - you personally - and to seafarers the subsidiary and today you have to apologise why you are taking this law back. And can I also tell you something that is politically dissatisfied and parliamentary euphemism? Never the New Democracy Members of parliament, nor the previous government and no member of parliament who took part in the government, came to the difficult moment to vote, vote to get back laws. If this isn't called a political break-up, then what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Brutsi, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u249	You must speak, Minister. You have a responsibility for what happened in the country, and unfortunately things are not going well. Because even if all these sacrifices that the Greek people have to make again could come into a context of discussion, the question is, will they catch a place? Unfortunately, it seems that the macroeconomic figures, both recession and unemployment, but also all indicators show that we are going to an uncertain future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u250	The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, if the elections had not taken place, we would have had this debate by the beginning of September at the latest. After the 14th of August, when the first half of the transformation of SYRIZA and ANEL policy ended, we interrupted for one or two days due to holidays and then the House was dissolved. In addition to the resolution of SYRIZA's internal-party problems, representatives of the two congressive parties were given the opportunity to continue in another way - but to continue - their stable demagogy, five years in the opposition and in the election period of 2015. They were given the opportunity with a change in arguments, in the shell of arguments. Instead of promises of some EUR 14 billion, which instead of making benefits, finally measures were taken against the citizens, the equivalents were invented. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have been on the next day since 14 August. Remove the elections. Now the Greek people pay the first instalment from the price of Mr. Tsipras' experimentation. It's the first dose. There's gonna be a lot of people here. But that's the first dose. And this experimentation, so expensive for the citizen, also creates a political consequence. He's exposing you. Harin joke, I'll say something. Don't get me wrong. I don't want to insult, but the theory and logic and the proposal of the equivalents are the papal game. Here equivalents, there equivalents, where are the equivalents? In all the measures provided for in the third inappropriate Memorandum of Tsipras an equivalent would be foreseen. 'Behold, the Rhodes, behold and the jump.' It was your dear phrase. Where are the first equivalents to the position of the measures that the third inappropriate Memorandum of Tsipra predicted? Nowhere. Will it be in the next draft law? We'll see. Well, that doesn't exist. And beyond that, there is also an inconsistencies. I do not know the arguments that the Minister of Finance replied to another member of the opposition, but we, as a Democratic Association of PASOKs - DMAR, say that others said here the Prime Minister and others say the draft budget and others also say this draft law from what the Prime Minister said, we are right. Minister, we believe we're right. Because we use, not meanings and concepts, but numbers. Let us first say what Mr Venizelos said a few days ago in his speech on the programming declarations. During your preliminary draft - it will be time to talk about it - on page forty-n you made basic assumptions, which were the quintussia of our own policy and our own financial view and their results. We were talking about the end of 2014, which finds us with a positive mark on growth. We said little, but the recovery of the country, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, with the stepping stone theory, will take place. There are no magical solutions. You found out. This theory of stepping stones, step by step, you denounced, you slandered us and you promised crazy things, which you are not able to satisfy. The growth for 2015 at 0.8%. We were just talking about it. The draft admits it because it tells the truth about it. For 2015 the forecast of the European Central Bank was 2.5% growth. The rest of the organizations predicted something between 2%, 2.5% and 3%. Another body predicted 2.9% and another 3%. What is envisaged, ladies and gentlemen, after the Tsipra experiment for 2015? There is a recession of 2.3%. For 2016, there is a downturn of 2.4%. With regard to private consumption, public consumption, unemployment and what was positive about the theory of steps and not with amazing results - they do not exist - in the preliminary forecasts now turn into negative data. The issues get a negative sign. And you now come to promise that at some point the cost you have created, your policies will fix it. It's not like that. You've created a cost, and she needs a very brave self-critic. This very brave self-criticism must be done. From there on, there must be clear words, clean solutions, clean policies to see what we can from what you say to believe and what we can do from what you are proposing in this House to support. We, because we are not you, whatever is positive here, will vote for it. Yesterday we had a conflict for no reason. You challenged her. For two days, Minister, we have been trying to draw conclusions on Article 3. It's not yours. Mr. Alexiadis was here. Things came out and we improved things. We said we would see tomorrow night if some of them would support them in the debate on the articles. We're in a positive mood, but you can't make fun of us. Nor can you stay here in a comfortable speech without self-criticism and without showing to the House that you are aware of the very great mistakes you have made and the sufferings you have accumulated for the Greek people. We are coming, ladies and gentlemen, to what constitutes the principle of this draft law, which regulates the issues of many ministries. How do you get out of this? It's hard to start. You live in some basics. Our rapporteur, Mr Koutsoukos, has said so. I will repeat most of them with my arguments in the same political direction as Giannis Koutsoukos tomorrow. However, I would like to stay on principle issues, as may be the case with the difficulty of the project. You have a seven-month policy to do things without discussing. Mr Philie, I was saying when I handed a file with a file - my undisputed witness, the video of journalists who covered the delivery and receipt ceremony - to your next colleagues in order to be able to run them quickly: 'Look, if the negotiation proceeds positively and close the program, I think the European Commission is open for ten thousand recruits of permanent teachers through ASP'. Mr. Kourakis tells me: “What troika? We do not accept that. There is not what you say about us." Here's the result today. Not only has this progress been made but you haven't got any substitutes. We, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the school year, had not covered all the gaps, obviously. But ten thousand substitutes had been taken. You guys haven't taken anyone this year. Not even one! In that sense, therefore, we delivered all the government and expected something to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u252	They didn't have books.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u253	Please, ma'am! I'm not addressing you first. We've been waiting for something to do. You voted for things after you became government. We were telling you - Mr Venizelos has said this and Mrs Christophilopoulou, I remember her - that we are voting, but we are not voting. And it is a principle of this plan, hidden in Article 21, ladies and gentlemen, which usually lays down provisions that are being repealed. That is where you put the provisions that you had voted on. And now, you're calling us to clear it up. A "OT" large, however, with capital large letters. You've been making fun of yourself. We told you "collect the country's lenders with what can be considered unilateral actions" and you made smart ones. Let's see now how many of the Members who were in the previous House will have a sense of shame, who have taken responsibility for raising their hand, coming out to the channels and talking with strength about what they believed and now take them back! When we told you, you were telling us the representatives of the lenders. We, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have paid that billion, and said that we will never resurrect it. The Greek people have suffered it on your face, because five years you have cursed and you have not listened. You had walls in your ears. We're not gonna help you here. You will raise yourself the cross of this witness against your MPs and the Greek people, because you are responsible for a hundred percent. You fooled us, slandered us and didn't listen. That is also the case in Article 5, and that is also what Article 21 is all about here in Article 1. It's yours. We now go to another issue which is a matter of principle, and I would say it tomorrow, because, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we lived something that I would like to convey to you. I will not have any more time to say about the other issues I have in mind, I will say them tomorrow, but I want to say that today. You brought a medical device. There is no politician in Greece during the crisis that has been slandered by some pharmaceuticals and their organs in the press as much as I do. My family has paid a heavy price of offenses, pre-collapsing, sometimes beatings, one of which concerns the current MP, Mr. Constantopoulos, who was left three months on the "Greek" of pilgrimages that were going for me. We have managed to achieve a pharmacological cost that the New Democracy had set aside in five years, lowering it every year and a few billion. This is work and we are proud of it. You have not voted, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, nor such a price reduction. You are now bringing down price reductions. We were saying there was a limit to lowering pharmaceutical expenditure, 2 billion. Where did we get that limit? I'm a lawyer, I'm neither an economist nor an entrepreneur. Lawyer and professor of law: this is my professional job. Where did I learn to say it? I saw it from Belgium, I saw it, from the Netherlands, countries with the same population as us, what exactly they had. We said that under 2 billion people will start the medicine that will be consumed to be "supermandolin", for whoever remembers the Greek film. There is beginning to be a problem in both industry and the insured, everyone, in the Greek economy only damage. We have also seen and agreed with the lenders in the country that we had this debate. Indeed, with struggles, sacrifices, with contributions from other ministers, such as Adonis Georgiadis, we have reached the limit of 2 billion. You're there now. Bring an arrangement here that says: The original medicines are good, the originals that have ceased to be, because their decades have ended will be 50% of the original price, the so-called off-patents and generics will be at 32.5% of the original price. This means, for anyone who knows, the death of an entire industry without, as Mr Salmas said yesterday, being favoured by the insured, because in particular, cheap drugs will be withdrawn and, instead of generic, we will have prototypes. This will increase the cost of the private person coming out of his pocket. Mr. Blonde heard that. Let me say something here. Ladies and gentlemen, I am nobody's judge. This Minister has made a good impression to me because he has the rare thing for us politicians of modesty - I think. He came here yesterday, very modestly at night and said an amendment. They are right, he says, to these arguments and we will make an amendment. I understood from the way he said that the matter in his technical, not politically, was not much of it. The man said the amendment. After a simple arithmetic, did we realize what he said? It says 65% of the price, not of the prototypes, but of the off-patent, of the former prototypes. In other words, 32.5%. And I took the floor at the end of the meeting to say, Mr. Koutsoukos said so, did the man make a mistake. He had to correct something with a phrase that was different, but the result of the regulation was exactly the same. Man's not making fun of himself, he's obviously not making fun of it, but maybe his associates have given him a arrangement that seemed to be different, but is it the same? If that happens, ladies and gentlemen, the disaster is a given one. I say again that it is not only about industry, it is also about the insured person, who will have to pay more expensive medicines, because cheap medicines will be withdrawn, companies will prefer exports and be replaced by much more expensive originals. As a start - and I am closing with this, Mr President, and I thank you for the tolerance - one example arises from this. Yesterday and the day before yesterday, we saw a minister say something and he said "he knows" to take the floor and then say "I'm not ready", to be the third Minister here, the fellow minister, and to say "I don't know about it", the fourth to go up to the Step and be a mountain. All of this for five - six provisions. Excuse me, very much, Mr. Mada. You've been here for two days. How many ministers have you heard tell us this is under negotiation and under way? Do we have a draft law alive by tomorrow night? Is that or don't you know what you're doing and correct every hour mistakes that arise?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u254	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u255	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Loverdo, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u257	I'm done. The example I am using, ladies and gentlemen, with medicines is very characteristic. The Scientific Studies Directorate, using ten decisions of the Council of State, tells you that there is a limit to the discretionary discretion of the State, the limit given by the cost-production and sale relationship. If you produce more expensive than what they make you sell, why do you do the business? What are you? Fool? So you need to make it clear to this evening that we are discussing in principle and even intellectual political excursions are free - because tomorrow we are going to an article - what are the provisions you are calling on Parliament to vote on so that we know what we are going to do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-seven students and apprentices and two educational attendants from Kalamata Beach High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Cassidy, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u259	It is really interesting, it is really funny, I would say, to see bailing in these benches representatives of the old memorandum parties - PASOK - New Democracy - with the new Memorandum SYRIZA and the neomonal ANELs. It is equally interesting to see how the seats of the House are evacuated when the representatives of the Golden Dawn speak. This really gives us great pleasure, because the truths of the Golden Dawn representatives do not lift up the existing political system. As far as these so-called conflicts are concerned, therefore, there is no point in doing so today. It's not a story that the previous guy said. After all, these measures, multi-branded laws, applicable laws all come from outside. They're already on the outside. They used to come by e-mail, with the great e-mail Hardouvelis, which they called us, etc. Now they're on a direct phone and they're dictating them. They once said the representatives of the present government when it was opposition that neo-democrats and pasoktzias and other conditions are the right conditions. Only today the docs and servants and officials of the German economic oligarchy, who unfortunately runs Greece, are representatives of SYRIZA and ANEL. They are the ones who deceived the Greek citizen. They are the ones who took the proud "no" of the Greeks and threw it in the heart of the political unusable. Today they bring bills, which the House does not even have to discuss, because very simply these bills cannot be implemented. When you say that you will collect a tax from unrealised rents, I will tell you with very simple words and a folklore that you will not get a franc. When you say that they will pay HICPs from the first euro, even tourist businesses and small property, who do you think will have this money to pay you? However, of course, we will also see criminalisation, serious criminalisation, against those citizens who do not escape tax, but cannot survive and have to pay the public for all this money, which you will eventually collect. If there was a good cause, we'd say yes. If there were a good purpose in all these measures and there was a prospect of development in the country, we would say yes. But what are you doing here? You take this money to feed the same political system that hasn't changed since 1974. Why? You are only talking about tax evasion measures dictated by foreign power centres. But we did not see you say a word about state funding to the parties, which is EUR 50 million per year. In other words, the citizen pays them to the USHA, the micro-owner from the first euro, to get all this money after the parties. I have followed with interest, now on the Internet, the findings of the Committee of the Regions, supposedly, Sages, who are clearly speaking now and openly about the Bulgarianisation of Greek society. This is the first step. Then we will see the mobilization of Greek society. Because the ultimate purpose of these ethnic monuments, which were imposed by the PASOK and the New Democracy, is today to bring them into a worse shape, SYRIZA, is first of all to leave his country, to land foreign illegal immigrants from Pakistan and from the Third World, and then, of course, when everything is dissolved in Greece, the wealth of Greece is bound by foreign loan sharks, because Greece is a rich country. That truth no one dares to say it in the House. We are a country that has wealthy sources inexhaustible, which we have not yet exploited, or at least. The reason why foreign forces do not allow us to take advantage of them is precisely because they want to take it all. And when we saw your Prime Minister go to the United States, pretending to be the follower of Yanna Angelopoulou and being ridiculed at the Clinton Foundation, the issue that arises after all this, of all these funny, miserable images is what will happen to the Greek mineral wealth, which our Americans have forbidden us to exploit. And I will open a parentheses here, because everything in politics, everything in developments in our homeland, are geostrategic balances. Since the United States, which was worshiped by SYRIZA - which has once made the anti-American, once Tsipras went down to protests against the United States and against Clinton and today he has worshiped and runs a line from the United States government - does not allow us to exploit Greece's wealth and does not serve the interests of Greece, then - yes! - the country needs to make a geopolitical turn. Today's developments on the forefront of Syria, on the forefront of the Eastern Mediterranean, show a new great strength in our region, which is Russia and Russia, and Greece must definitely turn not only in the fields of energy and hydrocarbons, but also in the fields of our national defence and security, but also in the fields of trade. To come back to the bill, to this confiscated bill - an abortion, which the House will vote for tomorrow by a qualified majority - unfortunately! - one of the measures you bring to us reminds us of that famous EUR 50 billion fund, in which the national wealth of Greece will be bound. Now, this time, you are talking about committing all the public cash. We are talking about a single treasury account, which will be controlled by the Minister of Finance, who, of course, is not controlled by anyone. He's got no problem forgetting a million undeclared! All these illegalities remain unpunished, as unpunished by the New Democracy Government today is being done with the SYRIZA Government. I shall refer to this matter in detail a little later. So, as far as the specific issue of public funds is concerned, which are committed to a single account controlled by the Minister of Finance, this is done with a specific purpose, such as when you grabbed the money from the local government agencies, to pay for the international currency fund, the international loan sharks, the illegal interest payments that Greece pays, because they are illegally paid. And you have not dared to say a word about auditing the public debt, you have not dared to say a word about the Land loan that Germany owes to Greece. Your Prime Minister does not dare, when he talks, when he meets with Merkel to say about these major issues about Hellenism. It's not a word about the mortgage loan, it's a word about the country's illegal debt! You have sold out these issues! You literally sold out our homeland and Hellenism! As far as other issues are concerned, which we will also discuss tomorrow, when we talk specifically about the articles that will be going through with this multi-legislative draft, there will be no clearing of the debts to the TEI for over EUR 20,000 of the citizens, the free trades, who are ready to go to pension. Here literally - because I have been a professional for several years - we have a 'implementation' project of the free professionals, those who really work in Greece, because much of the public does not work. Those who work and those who "carry out" are the ones who fight it daily in the private sector. You've got 'em. Here, count and tell us - I will put this issue in parliamentary scrutiny to the relevant ministers - how many thousands of Greek citizens who have arrived before the pension will not be retired because of this legislation. Your aim, of course, with all these legislation is to make people die early so that they do not pay pensions to the public funds, these agencies, who are greedy, are being dismantled, are under collapse. The reasons we'll explain to them next time. Another issue that arises is the question of xenophobia. How does it turn out? They are exempted from compensation to municipalities that operate the port of Piraeus, for example, the airport of Spatas. They won't give the municipalities any money for compensation fees. But who are those who exploit the country's public wealth, because it is public wealth when it comes to the airport in Spata where the HOCHTIEF pays absolutely nothing, does not pay VAT. It is a state over there that the Germans, as the state in state, will be in very short time the Chinese in the port of Piraeus, who will not give the municipalities a money. And who will pay for it so that the municipalities do not fall apart, since the government has already taken it to pay the International Monetary Fund? The Greek citizen will be called back to pay. That is why we tell you that all these measures you take are anti-national, are unpopular and have a very specific objective, as I said before, to empty Greece from Greece. That is the purpose and we see that going on. The representative of the pharmaceutical industry spoke yesterday. I'll generalize. I won't just talk about the pharmaceutical industry. The aim of all the post-government governments was the definitive uproar of the Greek industry, the definitive destruction of the Greek industry. It was a plan organized. We talked about it ten, fifteen years ago, we at the Golden Dawn and then you told us conspiracy, fascists, pigeons. We are, however, absolutely true. Representatives of the industrialists today fully verify us. What is the matter with regard to medicines? Do not produce cheap and good medicines in Greece - because Greece has such opportunities to produce cheap and good medicines at relatively cheap prices - that there are no copies and generics produced in Greek factories by Greek workers and that will be profitable not only by Greek businesses, but also by the citizen, the worker, the State from taxation then. You're not hitting the industry owner. You're hitting the civilian. You're hitting the unemployed. You hit the country's Gross National Product, which is reduced. And then, as has been said tens of times in this Chamber, behind all this history is a great trust in European interests and the large pharmaceutical homes abroad, especially in Germany, which continues to walk on all the awards of the Greek public. Even the sinful "SIEMENS" once again gives rise to "first face" to the awards of the Greek public and to the tenders, the sinful "SIEMENS" for which you were making a fuss in here when you were opposition, and this oppressed out-of-judicial compromise from New Democracy proceeded. The same continue to apply because the entire sinful political system by the sinner '89, from the then coexistence, the then universal government, the JRC and the New Democracy, has since been fuelled and financed by the "SIEMENS" and the foreign houses of big capital. As we said, the Greeks should become a minority within our country. Immigration flows continue uninterrupted, uninterrupted. You're talking about humanism, but you don't open your eyes to see that today in Lesvos we had four dead again, one woman, two children and one baby. And why did we have dead? Accidental. It sinked a slave trade after a clash with a port ship. All these flows that you have allowed there lead, to having dead people and lame, of course, those who play refugees and are in fact jihadists, Islamics, fanatics and criminals, are not drowned. They're getting away with it. With all this creation of migratory flows from Turkey to Greece - Turkey is not a war zone, so there is no question of refugees coming from Turkey to Greece - we mourn every day dead. I'm closing up with the major issue of days, with an issue of moral order. What, though, can we say to the representatives of SYRIZA for moral order when, in the past three and a half hours, your pan-Hellenic minister, who has "forgot" declared a whole million euros, the ministers themselves who sign the bleeding of citizens have such tails in foreign banks, in BLACK ROCK, in JP MORGAN, playing somewhere with bonds with bankers, have millions that are undeclared and do nothing at all? There is complete coverage by the government of these ministers. Today, with our document to the President of Parliament, which we have also communicated to the President of the Commission, 'from where you were,' we are finally asking that abundant light be dropped in this case and that we, as parliamentarians, should have access to these critical elements. And what does the House of SYRIZA do? Excludes Opposition, excludes the representatives of the Golden Dawn from the Commission "from where you are" and will meet behind closed doors only representatives of SYRIZA and the New Democracy! We're talking about an absolute cover-up of crimes. These ministers who have hidden, who have not declared millions and tax evasion, must go to a criminal court and not be covered by the government. However, this will happen when there is finally a political cleansing in Greece, which only one national government, with the core of the Golden Dawn, can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u260	The Parliamentary spokesman of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I was placed as a special speaker on the plan. We have noted a number of issues which, in our opinion, could improve this draft law, which, in any case, we believe will be passed by the two parties' government. But to date we have not heard the desired improvements and then we have to state, after yesterday's reservation, that we are voting against them at least at this stage. To be more specific, I want to say the following. We cannot monitor the philosophy of the bill, because it is a stitching of provisions on almost everything. It refers to pension provisions, which, of course, we have vertically refused and opposed, because they affect the lowest layers of Greek society, because not only do pension thresholds fall but they are also increasing sharply - the age limits are now beginning to take place, in relation to the sustainability and average life of the Greeks, dangerous, if not many times impossible, the worker after forty, forty-five years of working life will end up getting a pension, even this poor one. I don't want to go on at this point anymore. It has been analysed, the whole House has been placed, and we believe that even the Coupling internally does not accept this provision, it does not want to accept it, even if it is necessarily a law of the state. I do not want to talk about taxation because many colleagues have already spoken. I would like to stress, however, on two issues which have been raised yesterday and on the debate of committees, but I believe that they will also be working today, and much more tomorrow, for our debate. Criminal provisions on tax evasion. We have not understood why criminal provisions which have already been in force since 1997 are being repeated. I put it to Mr Alexiadis yesterday during my speech. I didn't get an answer. These criminal provisions reiterate everything that has been done but have in their amendments an insult, if you like, of individual rights or at least violate the principle of equality. I'm bringing in a very rough example. In the second relapse on tax evasion, no conversion may be allowed. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, I asked that it be clarified - it has not been clarified to date - whether this conversion relates to crimes involving more than five years' imprisonment, in which case criminal courts have the option - of turning them into legislation in the early 1990s, which prohibited the conversion of certain criminal offences into six months - when the courts had now lifted their hands, because they were finally innocent of criminals, they were not even being put into prison - these provisions were lifted. New ones were voted and the right to conversion was granted. So that, in our view, needs to be answered. In addition, a major issue has been raised in connection with Article 67 of the Code on Tax Procedure, which refers to autocratics and co-workers of tax evasion crimes. It is the broadening of despair, the broadening of the concept of participation, the broadening of the concept of self-government - physically, directly and indirectly - which ultimately leads to criminalisation, collectively accountable, to objective criminal responsibility. It does not accept Article 7 of our Constitution. Nevertheless, we are now seeing that this provision, which has the impact of insulting, concentrating, reducing tax evasion, will act vice versa. As long as everything is criminalised, it cannot and cannot lead to an increase in public revenue under threat of criminal sanctions, but rather it will lead to a reduction in economic activity. Because everyone will be afraid to have an economic activity at least apparent, so tax evasion will no longer flee, shine and we will no longer be able to have any control. No one will seek - the small and medium-sized, the small-professor - to have a visible economic activity, because he will be afraid, even for a formal violation, of not leading him and his indictees and ultimately in prison if the retreat provision remains. A question arises, ladies and gentlemen, on this point. Is the purpose of this law in its general description a developmental one? We don't think so. Because the growth of the economy is not under threat of sanctions. It has some positive points, of course, in relation to fines for tax evasion, but these are administrative parameters, for which we have our reservations, because we fear that it now leads to a new arbitrary nature of the tax authorities. I give an example. It says that anyone who has a late or pending tax case may go within 90 days of the law being passed and apply for a benefiting provision that gives him the right to drastically reduce the fine and within two days of the application being made - stateing that he will pay the amount to which the fine is due. Question I asked yesterday. Where is the audit report that will give the certainty of tax registration? It's not the law. He won't tell us anything how it works. So the citizen will go to trial for a lamb on a massacre, and he will say 'I did this infringement, put me the fine to pay in two days', or does this provision lead, on account of a craftsmanship, if you want, to state that everyone wants to take a tax amnesty and keep shooting the tax evasion machine? They need an answer, ladies and gentlemen, to these issues, which I, at least as I have said, have not heard a word about. I have already commented that this multi-brand plan does not have a single principle and a philosophy, so that our party, too, can be specifically placed. It has subsequent provisions on the financial framework of the country. Technical issues and detailed issues. We have to say that we do not understand why the amendment of the von Habsburg report comes immediately. 4270/2014, voted by the previous parliament, to change the whole philosophy of financial management. There is also one problem, which I also raised yesterday, that by changing the Code of Taxation for n. 4174 in two years' time, when we have not yet received the conclusions of the previous tax procedure, it has been altered and, indeed, it has important elements which will certainly suspend all the activities of the tax authorities. What for? They demand a series of circulars. We all know better in this Chamber what Paul means, a documentary industry by the General Secretariat of Incomes, from the central offices of the Ministry of Finance, which one absolves, withdraws and is replaced by another. It was not, we believe, time to amend these two basic laws: the tax procedure law, n. 4174, as is the case with the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4270, establishing the financial framework. And I want to remind you here that L.4270 didn't come on his own. It's not Greece's invention. It came into effect in the country's Community commitments. So we are rushing to amend it today, but without knowing or telling us, if the previous law was in conflict with European legislation, so we now think that Greek legislation or newer legislation, as the provisions of this law now come, will change and be in disparity with European legislation later on. These are issues which, of course, the House at first instance cannot resolve at first stage, but we are obliged to state them, to record, because we fear that these issues will be a cause for disruption even if they appear to be to settle outstanding issues. I would like you to allow me to refer to an even more specific issue, although it is on the articles. The most specific issue which I am concerned about is in relation to the provisions of the transport project. It assumes the State and writes off debts of TRAINOSE and OSE to each other. Why is that? What's going on? We say that the rail network, these companies, is an obligation for the country at some point to be privatised. Has it been weighed, has the cost that the state is currently taking over by deposing a debt - if I am not mistaken and where I am wrong, please correct me -365 million? Has it been estimated that this will increase the price of any sale, so as to say that we are deleting the debts of these companies and after their privatisation has been decided, will it add a bonus more, an amount more to the price and will it be for the benefit of the Greek State? We don't know that. Is it being concealed that we are freeing from burdens and leading to a privatization of manifolds, so as to say that the transport project, the train, the rail network, is being privatised, so in this case, we will not only have charged the public, not only will we have deleted the debts, but will we have a lower price? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There are concerns that need to be answered because I see that it is being given indirectly but clearly in the sense of public service transport on the rail network a bonus of 50 million at the moment, which is being analysed in 50 years' time, i.e. 250 million. So this bonus for any privatisation will be calculated, transferred to the new acquirer, to the new owner? Should the state give him a premium in that sense? So is this provision premature and we have to stand a little further, because it is not yet a question of privatisation - at least I have no idea that it is a direct priority of the government - to stand up to it? I'm done saying that's all. I'm a lawyer and I'm a professional. We are forty thousand lawyers active in Greece and there are so many, maybe fifty thousand doctors, are so many more engineers. It has been given by Mr Army, even unlike the memoranda, contrary to the principles which he had to follow, the possibility, in particular, of our new colleagues, to reduce insurance contributions for two years. So we see today that it comes through the abolition of earlier provisions in the last article and this provision is repealed, which gave young Members the right to pay insurance contributions to a lower class to be relieved. This provision is therefore deleted. So I ask this: have the consequences for these thousands of people been calculated? They gave me from the Technical Chamber that they refer to eight thousand young engineers. A similar number gave me from the Athens Bar Association that they are making use of this provision to my new colleagues. So we delete this provision and say that it was a unilateral action by the previous government, it was a crime or I don't know what it was - say what you want - and we call on the new colleagues who have no work, who I can say that they are planting, falling, even older. I do not want to give any evidence, because I will trouble this House. So in that sense, we are telling them the following. You know, where your class was for 200 euros a month and you had your insurance cover and you would have pension rights, now we take you to 400 euros, to 500 euros. However, apart from taking you to 400 euros, to 500 euros, we invite you by way of the other provision that you must be consistent with current regulations and whether you have arranged your obligations towards them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Carras, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u263	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Please, because it's a "hot" to me personally, if you're kind. I'll be brief. So we call on these new colleagues and say 'you have to pay your current obligations, you have to pay the adjustment'? But where's the job? I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: will we withdraw them from the professional track or have to give them the opportunity, the opportunity, by paying for these contributions, to grow slowly - let us hope that the country will grow - and after the two years of the transitional period that is the regulation, come and be able to pay the higher contributions and cover any deficits that have arisen in the insurer? There is also an additional reason for that. This maintains jobs and does not reduce the income of the insurance funds. So even if it is the last Memorandum, I would ask the Government to bring an equivalent, to seek a parallel measure in order to maintain the work of these thousands of young scientists who have cost the state, because the state has studied them and their family has maintained them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, let us give Members some room. Mrs Aylonitou has the floor for seven minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, until Mrs Aylonitou comes to Step, I would like to inform you that the Member, Mr Dimitrios Gassis, is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad from 18 to 21 October. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u265	The House approved the requested permission. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you all bring it from here, bring it from there, that is to say, you are turning it around in other words, but only Mr Theocharis said so clearly what you want. The Left just doesn't succeed the first time, it has to resign. Why, then, should we quit? Why are we insisting? That's what you and your donors wish for, but that's not what we're going to do. And we'll make it, and we'll keep going. So today, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the draft bill: 'Measures to implement the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement'. You know, this is the law applicable to the agreement that has already been passed by the previous House. So at least he writes Parliament's programme. This is what the ministers and the government MPs are talking about. This law also speaks of that section of the Opposition which had voted against the relevant agreement in the previous House and which will totally normally vote against the applicable law today. But, ladies and gentlemen, there seems to be a political confusion in those parties that, while we are negotiating this agreement, have urged us not to negotiate but to sign immediately what the creditors, whatever, would put before us. Then, of course, when we brought the deal, they voted for it. But today they do not want to vote on the agreement. But I honestly do. Are they confused or are they trying to disperse the confusion in the electorate that voted against them last month? I wonder, and I ask myself, by listening here to the joint meeting of the committees, their objections to the bill, because I see that another bill I read and to another bill put my colleagues in place. I find it difficult, in other words, to understand how one can in the first phase say that the destruction of the world will come if there is no agreement, accepting the agreement by voting on it, but immediately afterwards saying that the destruction of the world will come if the agreement that he voted for is implemented. So, for you, these agreements are for fun? Is it for shorts in TV windows? Don't you think you have a duty to do what you're voting on? Do you consider it a national task to vote for the agreement but not to implement it? I expected you to disagree with individual articles and bring counterproposals. But how can you disagree in principle with the application of what you have already voted on? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you have problems. But hurry up. You can't expect the government to solve your inner-party and inner-city before we move on. Time runs and the issue of the country's financial correction will not wait for you. It is urgent to implement immediately the measures that we agreed to, to proceed quickly this year, in 2015, on the two following crucial issues: the negotiation of debt restructuring and the recapitalisation of banks. These two issues are the keys in the course of our economy. We want to prevent the new legal framework for banks that have been in place since January 1, 2016, and we will prevent it, with or without you. We all note, of course, that the bill contains difficult, very difficult measures that we do not like and we do not want. It has, you see, a great cost, correcting the calamity that has created in the past decades in the economy the two parties that have been ruling on us alternately and which we have received at the beginning of the year. What can we do, though? We have to pay your broken bills, because if we don't pack them, who's gonna pick them up? If we don't collect them now, when will they get together? So, we're moving on. We have a strategic plan with a key point in debt relief and you will not be delaying us with your ambiguity. Perhaps it is not just your political embarrassment that makes you today to oppose your speech yesterday. Perhaps the bill and the treatment of tax matters really bother you, since we are aiming at real increase in public revenues, while you have always preferred to show rigour to the weak, while covering the strong ones. However, we will see these in the debate tomorrow, and we will be in a concrete position. In today's bill in principle, the issue at issue is one. Do you want to implement the agreement you said and sought for so many months or do you not want it? Because I think that the 'I want' and the 'I do not want' you to tell us today do not match the seriousness of this place where we are not even in the seriousness of the issue before us. Ladies and gentlemen, stop the distortions. You have time until night to decide to vote on today's bill at first and until tomorrow you are given the opportunity to bring improvements to the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u267	The ministers, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u268	Times are short. Understood! We will only move forward with a view to the rapid economic recovery and social recovery of this place as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u269	We thank Mrs Aylonitou for giving the good example to Parliament's representatives. Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. I really do not do this for the lady who just came out of the Step, i.e. I am not answering her. I reply to a more general question raised in these days by SYRIZA colleagues and journalists, regardless of political position. I refer to the famous question: 'You voted for the agreement in August, why are you not voting now'? First of all, you all know very well the conditions under which it was voted on and why the agreement was passed in August. We have voted nothing but to keep the country in the euro, to prevent bankruptcy, to get ECU 85 billion. Because now we would not be here to talk about pension cuts, which you have finally brought, but about no pension. But I'll tell you something else that might seem strange to you. We did not vote together in August, ladies and gentlemen. We did not vote together in favour of your agreement either. We voted against you again because we understood that you were doing so before leaving the euro. There was no other explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u271	But, Mrs. Vulture...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u272	You like it, Christo, but that's the way it is! Look out! You had brought an agreement on 20 February, which you hid from Mr Lafazani and the other components. After you hid it well - well and we said "Come on, because the weather is near and on June 30, the country will remain unprotected", you said "it's okay" etc. You spent four months making the opposite of what you had to do to agree on the country, you reached the only five left in the country unprotected and you went to a referendum. Mr. Tsipras said that on 24 June he realized that the partners did not want to see Mr. Varoufakis in front of them and drove him out after the referendum. So we had heard of a project involving and leading Mr Galbraith, which was a study plan - but not just! - to see what the consequences of exiting the euro would be. We saw that somewhere you were going, because otherwise it wouldn't have taken off your schedule. So what we did was exactly what we did. Because the referendum is why you did it. You didn't do it for what Mr. Varoufakis says. You could not imagine that for the first time in the history of the Greek nation there is a 40% population that all together knows what he wants! You couldn't imagine that! If the number was bigger, you'd have done it, you'd have gone out. All your behavior shows. You've been saying something all July. You guys were on your way. You arrived in August. You made an agreement on July 12th, which you brought definitively on August 12th and August 14th, on the eve of 15th, you said "Aman, help!". Good! We didn't help you. We helped the country, because with all the things you've done, we've arrived here. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you something else. You say the people went to the elections, to the polls, knowing the deal. Since the people were aware of the agreement, they obviously agree with you after voting for you. Why should we take your 'bravos' and vote? The people who agree with you will also give you the 'bravo'. Why do we need our approval? Didn't you say in the election to the people that only you can negotiate, that you leave open issues, that you have the parallel programme and that everyone else is not able to negotiate on his behalf? That's what you told the people! What did you bring now? The well-known agreement - which you would bring anyway - says that we are voting on it first and then we will change it. Last year you were ruining the world with the decisions of Eurogroup that led to the country coming out of the crisis, from the memoranda and markets. Then what did you say? You raised the world! You should see what Mr Tsakalotos said last year, his statement after the Eurogroup of November 6, on the credit line, and what he said the other day, when she chased Mrs Lagard to Lima, Peru, to convince her to come back. So then Mr Tsakalotos himself made a statement - and I will put the relevant document in the Minutes to see it - and said that they 'will want a memorandum, they want an assessment...'. Now he says it's a very good assessment, and it has to be done, because otherwise how do we go about the debt? He also said at the time that it was decided to 'the stay of the IMF in the back seat'. He said that last year. This year he says. "We had a very constructive meeting with Mrs Lagard that took place in a positive climate and shared our attempt to complete the first evaluation in time - which you swore you would never do, did you? - so that the recapitalisation of the banks goes ahead - which, when we did it, we gave the bankers money, but now it's a very good thing, it's about popular savings! - and to have the real debate on the debt.' These are statements by Mr Tsakalotou with a difference of less than a year. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Things are simple. One last thing I'll tell you. The propaganda has recently said - and the texts of the decisions of your parties and Mr Tsipras himself - that he has been confirmed in these elections, that the vote is classic. Okay, but what class? What class do you represent? The workers, the farmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u273	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u274	With all that money in the banks you're forgetting about? Unless you go to another job, that you have the nomenclara that has the money and is shopping out of the good stores and - allegedly - you represent the people who are trying to take off their norm.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u275	Yes, that's who we represent!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u276	No, no. You'll tell us. It's a class vote, but what class are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u277	You didn't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u278	Ask who voted for you and why you were voted on if some had too much and wanted to get away with HISPHY etc. Ask and you will see which order are those who voted for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u279	Let's ask your class.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u280	I shall conclude, Mr President. First, then, you will look for a little bit in you - since it is a classic vote - in what order do you, when your ministers have millions, when they invest in foreign funds, when all that happens and when there is a family past of many, come from very good families, with a lot of money and a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Greek Parliament,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u282	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u283	Bring your bills, Mrs. Fotio, we'll exchange them with mine, and then you'll talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u284	Come on, let's change them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u285	You don't want to change their accounts! Because mine is zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u286	Mrs. Vuldesis, we announce school, we have guests. Please, ladies, we have guests. Respect them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u287	Well, Mr President, but Parliament is, it's a lively debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u288	They are children, students and students and four of their escorts from Kalamata Beach High School. Kalamata today has her honorary honor! The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman for the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u289	Have we passed the MPs, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u290	Would you like other colleagues to intervene? I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u291	Go ahead, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, I believe that on the inside of any party we must be careful and discreet. However, I want to say something here, and I say it very sincerely. Civic Opposition is the fourth institutional factor. Many hails, not me, say that what is happening in New Democracy right now is good for SYRIZA, for those who govern. I do not share that view. I believed and believe that the more reliable the Civic Opposition is, the more the government itself is forced to better. I really hope in the Civic Opposition - and I consider it necessary to make this comment - to find its way. And I have nothing else to say. Because, in fact, over-excession, risk, distortion has become a second one to many colleagues in this House, I would like to recall very simply that there have been three elections. A boring argument, a monotonous one, that didn't give up anything, people threw it in the trash, didn't hear it at all, three times. And I will once again say that these procedures have not been carried out fully democratically, without going back to that. We have forty-eight prerequisites and a key point, after the first assessment and recapitalisation of the banks, to go to the largest, in my opinion, topic after World War II, which concerns this country, public debt. All the voices around the planet, at the moment, argue that there is a positive climate for the first time to finally regulate this public debt. I do not want to mention how positive all the Europeans, even the Germans, have seen their regulation or how Christine Lagard, perhaps not clearly but I believe with sufficient emphasis, is proposing for the first time that fifty years the regulated interest rates should become stablely lower and that the grace period should be extended. Those who know of it estimate that it is about 100 billion ‘cut’ in another way. I would also like to remind you that the recession was estimated at around 2.8%. It will be 1.3% for 2016. I would also like to remind you that a well-known banker, a manager in one of the four banks - who has nothing to do with either SYRIZA or the Independent Greeks - says that in 2016, the least they will return to the banks is between 20 and 26 billion. I would also like to remind you that plastic money has yielded 2 billion profits right now when we're talking. I say this without triumphing, for God's sake, because the country's situation is terrible. And I would like to remind you here, because for us - for those who really want to believe that they see the heart of the problem - many of what is being done and who are very unpleasant for the Greek citizen, is nothing in the face of the insurance. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the reserves of the funds once went off to the banks. Then I remember a solid fund, the NAT, which was hordes of party selfishness and almost dissolved. I want to remind you after the structured bonds. I want to remind you after the famous PSI. Yes, we have to be honest. It is a potential hydrogen bomb and in fact in two or three years it will be an unresolved problem. I say that because honesty never hurt. I can't make fun of anyone. Indeed, the citizens are right to protest, we are cutting them off 2%, 3%, 5%, we are looking to ball them. I want to remind you of a fact. When Yannissi - and I have no hesitation as to whether and where he belonged - together with Sprao have gone to the insurance, they have then protested hundreds of thousands of citizens and probably some - I - was not - to be in this House as well. Let's just say we didn't understand that then. Today, however, it is an issue that needs to be resolved and solved, with one difference. SYRIZA and ANELs are currently being called to pay the bill for something they didn't spend, just left last. They manage this terrible pillaging of the funds. I would also like to remind you of the persistent position of an old economic author - I said this again in my speech to the committees - of Nikos Nikolaos, who has been writing 'BIMA' and 'KATHMERINI' for years, screaming and saying 'corruption, at last, tax evasion is gangrene'. Now it's happening. He was also saying. "Play the money, only so will you hit the tax evasion and above all what is not declared to be confiscated." They are positive points to the prerequisites that this government has to face. I would like to finish, ladies and gentlemen, and I imagine that I will not need any more time, Mr President, to say this: some in this House see the glass of half full, some see it half-empty. I want to believe that the first of these are the ones who will convince the citizens. Because at the moment it costs the government, it is the one who pays the bill for a long-term mismanagement - not to use any more words. I want to make another final comment. I saw Vice-Population MPs raging, literally out of their own minds, because it was heard that two ministers had done something. I am one of them - and I want you to believe that - and I believe that there are too many Members in this block of coup d'état, who we do not accept on matters of moral order fly in our sword. I mean it and I mean it as it says and the majority of those Members say it, which we did not use any privileges or anything else. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, we must have the patience to clarify the issue and I am giving the floor to be the first to be, if there are no convincing explanations, which I am not prepared to throw water into my wine. But I was surprised to hear Members who saw the billions flee to Switzerland, from misery, overpriced, "from", "from" to "from" selective sensitivity, and I saw them in danger of a stroke in these two cases yesterday. I'll be with them, with one difference. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u293	Recordman time management, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Parliamentary spokesman for the Thanasis Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u294	And now, then, it is time for action and truth. The election lights are out, the elections are over and we are in a reality. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is moving on to the implementation of the barbaric third memorandum, which is added to the other two, escalating the anti-grassroots attack and having air in its sails, the New Democracy Agreement - PASOK - Potamio and the Centroon Union, from what we hear - which was not then to vote - which, while all of them voted on these measures, voted on the third memorandum, now constitute Pontius Pilate and come out on the tiles. Really, I'm asking you. What did you all think? I'm talking about the partners, the memorialists, the SYRIZA - ANEL. So, what were you waiting for? That with this agreement will improve the standard of living of the Greek people? That wage increases will come, pensions? You didn't know? What are you acting like? Just, once again, SYRIZA and ANEL, not to say 'were taken out of the grave' - the politician I always mean - why is it going to be a macabre expression, giving you the right today to be demolished for what? For a strategy you fully agree with. Mr. Chakalotos was honest. It says that what we are bringing today is what we have agreed. That's right. The rest of you, why are you yelling? If you have individual amendments, sit together, set up a joint committee and come here to present them, and we'll be sure you'll find them. In addition, Mr Tsakalotos asked the question: 'Let us leave these things', that meant 'these can be found, since we have agreed on the development model, on the development road', by addressing the New Democracy and the other parties which agree with this third memorandum, in general in this direction. That's right, he asked the question, and he's right, he's cornering the rest of you. Why the question is: What is the development path followed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government? The Socialist, Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Alexiadis, Mrs. Fotou, or the third street? Because historically the third street, as Kotzias said then, proved to lead to the most barbaric capitalism. So, here you are. That's why the rest of us are shouting now. You have taken the program, you have gone further ahead of some things and are now protesting and saying 'no, we can implement it better'. This is where they're wrong. And here they are mistaken to say that they can apply him better. Because what they were unable to do and pass quickly does today the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, even called a left forum. That is what you do and it has been historically confirmed. When in Italy there was the Prodi government with the two communist parties, then labour conquests began to be ripped out, and indeed by a referendum. They had the workers cut off their hands, that is. That's what they did actually. The saying of Anelli is also confirmed, as you know, by the President of FIAT: "Where the Right cannot come the Left." Because Left and all of this is not compatible. In fact, you come and think - for now, so is - you will go through it with fewer resistances. Because it is well known that if New Democracy and PASOK were in the government and were trying to pass these measures, it would not be the same situation in the people's movement. Now, for now, you're offering a lot of service. But you have delusional. You know, she's gonna shut up the lid and you're gonna get what happened to PASOK with the measures she brought. In a crisis of sincerity, Mr Papadopoulos said to the New Democracy: 'What else would you do?' Nothing. What you're doing, they'd do. It's coming up. Such criticisms have been made and you are tempting to all tons of 'we will honour our signature'. We have no objections. Because exams you've given, you've probably passed them with excellentness - maybe with tone - and in the same strategy you'll move. That is why we are saying that this bill is not a fragmentary one, because this is exactly what has been happening for many years. When the Government of New Democracy - PASOK brought some bills, you said they were fragmentary, inefficient, etc. We said they were part of a single strategy. Now change the story. What you were saying is that New Democracy and PASOK, because they are, in fact, fighting - beyond the differences that exist, we have said this before - who is the best manager of this system. So what different strategy do you have? Nowhere. What does the strategy for the development of capitalism say, especially after the crisis or during the crisis? Reducing labour force price. It's reduced, yes or no? You're cutting it down everywhere. Do you raise wages? Oh, no. Are you raising pensions? Oh, no. On the contrary. You're reducing them more and more. Jungle labor relations. Do you change anything in the landscape of industrial relations, which is modern slavery, slavery, galera? Oh, no. You keep them in full and, in fact, you commit to implementing the best best practices that the European Union says. I told you last time that it was 40% employment, flexible working relationships, in the Netherlands. Social expenditure? Reduction. You're reducing them? You're reducing them. Don't repeat it. Release of markets. You're releasing them? The OECD toolbox is now on its way. Aid for monopolistic groups. You'll bring in a development law. Here we go, and we'll see. You don't say anything different than the previous ones. Generalised privatizations and I will mention a few examples later. That's a question. What else do you have? Apart from the origin of a party's ideas and everything else. So you're saying. We have a difference, because our policy has a social dimension. Indeed - Mr Alexiadis left - Mr Alexiadis said that you have a class mark. We agree you have a class mark. He serves the interests of capital. Are we wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u296	Are we overreacting? To set examples of the bill. ENVIRONMENT. You said you'd abolish him. No one's talking about that anymore. What are you doing now with HISBIA? You put in the rooms and take out the huge hotel groups. "Individual hotels" you say. Individual businesses that are rentals, let them be a little more. What's the sign? Left? Right? Social? Who serves objectively? When you relieve the giants that control the vast majority of the tourist market from HISHA, what service? You're kicking the younger ones and you're gonna send them down slowly to get all these rooms. Excludes S.H.I.E.L.D.'s properties from H.E.L.D. For what? To relieve the public? No, of course not. In order for business groups to get them tomorrow and not to pay HISPIA. What kind of social figure is that? Is it pluralism - to use such expression - or is it working class? Aren't you helping them? Get them and don't pay later? So here's the social mark on taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u297	This is where they don't pay the bills. Not if they take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u298	All right, here we go, and we'll see!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u299	That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u300	Because, well, you say that, I'll pass one. Do you exempt from business tax on ports, airports, do you write off debts of tens and hundreds of millions created? What's the sign? What will the municipalities do? Instead of getting them more and larger, because they have huge profits, you get rid of them and they will be forced to scratch the world to meet some of the basic needs they have. Belongs to ‘HOCTIEF’. Because someone from the Golden Dawn said about "SIEMENS" and stood in '89-90, we want to recall that "SIEMENS" is in Greece before 1920, because "SIEMENS" in Greece was the main funder of your ideological leader, Hitler, that is, along with other major businesses such as "KRUP THIESSEN" etc. I'm on it. So let's see the social sign left. You are reducing the fines for infringements of millions of millions, tens of millions of dollars for counterfeits, virtual invoices from 75% to 95%, and even with a cynical confession - they were technocratic, but it has political substance - the Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, who says that 'we are going to take more' - that is what he said, 'when we put them on more, no matter what we've done, we don't take them less, so we will make fun of them.' So objectively, who are you helping? Employees or Entrepreneurs? At the same time as you do this, we have a pay-off of half of the pensioners over 1,000 euros for debts of a few hundred euros. To the one who owes thirty, fifty, 100, three hundred, confiscate them and the others you make favorable arrangements. And you come and bring now - not 'from the window', 'from the door' - that whoever makes an additional statement when the check has begun, you allow him to make an additional statement to get away with it, rather than 'cook it'. What social and class mark do these changes have? Tell us. They have a purely class mark, support the interests of capital, and hit those who still stand or can survive. It is because the objective, obviously, of total, strategic - and it is not a matter of you deciding - is the law of the system - is the small and medium-sized strata, etc., to be reduced so that it can open the ground and enter the large business groups. Insurance: Here it is socially sensitive and socially sound. The first social sign - "to your god" that is. The pensions of uninsured advocates are abolished. But, well, that's what you got? "And we'll see," says Mr. Katrugalos, he keeps saying "we'll see", but we'll see them in the future. Well, is that the problem today? What will these people do? How will they live? Ultimately uninsured. How are those who have nothing to live the other day? You're abolishing this, too. Gradually increasing the retirement threshold. That's a class mark. Instead of working today with technology, science, labour productivity, the wealth produced, working less, taking him to sixty-seven, seventy-seven others say, and the grave will end up taking no pension. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me the dentistry, Mr President. Third. In the light of the above, the Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. You are ending the ASs with the lack of funding. What's the targeting? For us, the targeting is clear. Aiming is at best a beggar, a minimum as pension and private insurance. That's the target, American model. When you cut employers' contributions, you cut off the state that's the money of the tax workers, what will the other one do? He will pay, he will go to a private insurance company - whoever can - so that he can, if he has and when he does not bolt down certain insurance companies, go to make a private insurance policy. Because there's a lot of talk about the insurance here, the funds have been destroyed. How are we gonna fix them? Really, who's gonna pay for this? Who's gonna pay for about seventy billion ate from IKA? Who ate these? Bodossakis, Chachos, the entire great pluralism, old and modern, who took IKA's money off the ground until 1980s since 1950. They've been disowning them all these years and giving them a blanket then. They did not pay contributions and much more, and then the next pillaging of the PASOK and New Democracy governments began. Exchange, haircut, etc. Really, that's what who's gonna pay for? Why would the worker have to pay up to 400 and 500 euros while he ate his life and spilled his sweat and blood and these rich people pay nothing? Why don't you do nothing with them? Because they don't live? Aren't there companies and businesses today? So let's see, since someone talked about NAT, and even says that NAT became the north of party interests. I'll tell you. A hundred million are owed by shipowners today! But that's how poor they are? The world's first merchant fleet, and it owes 100 million. How many times were debt write-offs at the NAT in the past to the shipowners? I mean, mercy! In 2014 or 2013, they paid 130 million and over tax only on Greek crew making a statement in Greece and shipowners paid 75 to 80 million. How do you hear that, really? And how does the world tolerate it? In exchange for what? With what? That it's employing workers? But they were the first to bring foreign workers with 300 and 400 euros and tossed Greek crews away and the seafarers reached the sixteen thousand out of the hundred thousand that they were. With what? What about the shipping exchange? He gets in and out all the time. What's the impact? And here, there is no one to make a 'knock' on this issue of the fifty-seven tax exemptions. Here, then, your policy has a social significance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Paphie, you're a good speaker, but don't forget it. Surprise your astro!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u302	I'll finish. Twelve and six are eighteen minutes. I said I'd get protology and denology together. I'm not talking again, I've said it all along. For today, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u303	Oh, for today? Is the commitment until 12 o'clock at night? Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u304	So, did you hear any of them here that's cut out and say about pluralism up there to talk about it? Cuveda! Holy protection for certain reasons, different. We have the conclusion of the wise ones today. I'm going to paraphrase a joke that most people will know about. It says that the seven wise men of ancient Greece were five, of whom the two Thalis and Milesius. The paraphrase is that the seven wise men of insurance are five of whom two are capital and monopolies. That's the conclusion. A box is coming precisely for the destruction of social security and launching - not directly but gradually - of private insurance. Another side is OSE and TRAINOSE. What are you doing in the bill? You are giving TRAINOSE the debts and you are charging them to OSE, i.e. the public will take them, i.e. to the Greek people, that is to say to the workers. Who's serving? What's the sign? What social figure? Is it not a social sign in favour of pluralism in favour of these large companies that will buy TRAINOSE today? Yes or no? And you know what? What you are doing is a photocopy - and even validated by a stamp and signature - of the PASOK and the New Democracy policy. What about the privatizations in the past few years? We were just saying two words. Socialisation of debts, privatisation of profits. That's exactly what you're doing today. That's what used to be. When businessmen took them out, the state took them out, unravelled them and gave them half the price, and even subsidised them from above, to the point where a Pirate-Patraika factory - in the New Democracy, it was this and the PASOK did the same - had 1.2 billion drachmas in stock and sold 300 million. You do exactly the same. You're loading all this to the people and giving it to the investor. And the question, Mr. Papadopoulos, is. So what else do you - with arguments - do I speak to everyone else? Verbal? Too many things. Equivalent? What is equivalent? The bill's here. If the equivalents are what you mentioned, thank you very much. The New Democracy and PASOK said: "We will do that, we will do the other, development, rural economy, primary sector, etc.", which proved to be yours. Others are criticising you - I will say it this way - to apply them more quickly and harder, regardless of what they say in here. A unique opposition on the part of the people's interests and another development path is the Communist Party of Greece, which will honour its signature, regardless of whether the percentage taken by the Greek people is small or large, and the expectations that the Greek people have, by organising the struggle of the people against this policy, trying to help create a great popular alliance that will stop this policy of yours, which will overthrow it and set the goal of getting the people to their hands. This is the real conflict. Your collision, which you say conflicting with the lenders, I'll say it again is like Zeko in the fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u305	You got some from tomorrow. Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much. We heard a moment ago the previous speaker telling us about the KICs' struggles and the struggle he has done. A party that does not accept control over its party funds has no right to talk about what else may have been stolen, which has certainly been stolen, through the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u307	Neither the killers nor the criminals!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u308	When the JRC's partners agree to control their party funds, they will be able to discuss them. Since they're not accepting, for me they're guilty of economic crimes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u309	Criminal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u310	There's going to be a check on the funds, and it's going to be checked that he's given offshore...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u311	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u312	Partners, who have given the TV...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u313	Well done, criminal! You dare talk? Come on! Sit tight, man!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u314	Murderer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u315	Out, comedian!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u316	Criminal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u317	First, get out of here. First, get out of here for coming here! Is that right? Comrade, get out of here now, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u318	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u319	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Karthanasopulus,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u321	The Guardian. Call the Guardian!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u322	Murderer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u323	Employees!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u324	So when the JRC partners, when the JRC partners, tell us which offshore company they have sold the television and radio station they had and for which they never dared to tell us, then talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u325	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u326	Give me the evidence you sold him. In the Second Piraeus 9.5% Golden Dawn, comrades!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u327	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u328	Comrade, you didn't do well!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u329	Turn off the microphone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u330	The offshore company tell us, comrades.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u331	Do you hear me, Mr. Rabbit? Do you hear what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u332	Are you serious? We were beaten by seventeen people. Did you hear them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u333	Did you call the Guardian, Mr. Barremene?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u334	I don't have the authority to do this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u335	Listen, Mr. President. Me and the Golden Dawn didn't scare us out, hunters, masked, hooded men who took us in. They won't scare us of the system, and you're up there trying to cut us off! So we're too strong to bear...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u336	Get out of here! Everybody go. When the Golden Dawn speaks, you all go. Everybody, get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u337	The million to bring Stathakis! Lamoya, thieves!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u338	Pick them up here. Respect the place where they speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u339	Golden Dawn is the only one controlled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u340	We're interrupting the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u341	Well, the adjourned session continues. Mr. Rabbit is invited to the Step for five minutes. Please confine yourself to the subject we are discussing and under no circumstances get away from the Step
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u342	May I breathe, Mr. President? Well, the previous speech continues, which was interrupted. It is a democratic process. We must respect them, because it is the temple of democracy here, and of course we must respect what is happening! Well, let's go on after all that's happened, because they can't stand in here talking about some truths. Some people are really bothering them. We have said so, or they will be here, and they will be so painful and sad or they will leave the Chamber because they will not stand. One of the two will happen when the Golden Dawn talks. So we have heard and debated all this time about this bill that has come. We heard there were reactions - allegedly - from the opposition parties who no longer vote for it, but the opposition parties were those who unanimously supported the move of this government on 14 August. All together, therefore, they voted on all three memorials and the third one that is currently in existence at the expense of our country, so no one has the right to speak about them, except the Golden Dawn, whose attitude, from 2012, which entered the Greek Parliament but even much earlier, is given, it is a given, and it always says that Greece must be a free, an independent state, which unfortunately has never been in the past few years. I am curious to hear, I could say, that the New Democracy Party is shouting and complaining and is allegedly opposed to this vote on the bill, but I would really like to say something to you. If the hundred and fifty-five Members are right at the moment when the bill is voted, they become fifty and for some reason five do not vote, to make your cross not to happen, because then you yourself will run to vote and give the other five votes needed to pass this new bill. So be careful not to change their minds. I would also like to say - and I stress this - that we are living in a time of virtual democracy. Of course, there is no democracy. We have already seen what happened in this Chamber, we have seen from time to time what has happened at the expense of the Golden Dawn. Let me tell you that we are seeing a co-government of a party that has taken around 35% of the elections - in fact it is not 35% because of the abstention but about 18% - with another party that has taken 3.5% into co-government and has up to Ministries and decide and do what they want, contrary to the third party of the Greek Parliament, at the moment, on Golden Dawn, which does not always have the right to elect a Vice-President in the Greek Parliament, a position that is entitled to it, a position that does not actually belong to it and which no one of your democratic arch accepts to receive, not respecting all of you Members that we are a third parliamentary force, whether you want or not. Because the democracy you are evangelizing on this is based on the fact that even if there is a minority that you do not accept, but you must agree with what it says. But I have not seen anyone here but the rest of the Members of all the other parties accept that. So you are taking part in something completely unconstitutional, which is happening in Parliament's Chamber. Well, imagine what else is going on out of here. The government at this time put capital controls, controls the money that is moving, controls everything. This is, of course, not done for the good of the Greek citizen nor for the fight against tax evasion. That's because - we all know - you're like left-wing ones, you're evangelizing that you're, the longest and long-handed of the system, you serve the great interests, the bosses that are the same for all of you - for all of you are the same - and they give you the orders. Globalization and the new order of things are before the gates, plastic money must exist to control it, to control us all at all times and at all times what we do, how we move and how we operate. This is the message you want to pass, this direct check is that you want to pass and that's what you're not accepting and you can't forgive the Golden Dawn. You cannot forgive that there are Greek citizens proud, who do not accept all of this and who are prepared for their ideology to suffer the consequences of their actions. To conclude by saying in this time-consuming speech today that we have reached a point about the constant change of direction on political issues, today to say other things and the day after tomorrow, to vote on 14 August 'yes' and on 15 October to vote 'no' with arguments, all these things, this humiliation you will once again be subject to the name of politics. That's your policy. It is today's policy that we say east, tomorrow we say west. It's his policy today, we say day after night. So these assholes, which you've all learned to do, are the so-called "political" you've learned. So, as Golden Dawn, we will give you this policy and we will speak human and Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u343	Mr. Michael Jellonis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on the bill, because the Greek people see us, I would like to say that democracy in this country is majestic and gives the floor to even those who undermine it. [[At this point the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] For the bill, ladies and gentlemen. This bill is part of the prerequisites of the third Memorandum of SYRIZA - ANLE coexistence. It is quite clear, however, that it finds signs of stifling again and leading the already winter social groups to an economic dead end. Ladies and gentlemen, with the agreement of August, you accepted, among other things, three main assumptions. Eighty-three billion due to natural and legal persons to the public, to draw up and maintain balanced budgets, and even to automatic balancing mechanisms and to the covered zero deficit clause, namely, the Greeks' fiscal capacity, the operation of the Greek state with its own resources and insurance. But let's take them one by one. And the most moderate macro-economic analyst knows for decades now that when the curve reaches the critical size of a volume of tax burden, it works inversely in proportion to the expected revenues in the state funds. So you don't have to rediscover America. Just apply the long-term accumulated knowledge, unless Mr Alexiadis here wants to record new overdue public debts of over 100 billion. I really don't think so. You're talking and talking about tough negotiation. What should our creditors and the political leadership of SYRIZA - ANEL still see, to understand that the burden-sharing capacity of Greek citizens has now reached Nadir? Do you think that this money is distributed equally to the millions of Greeks who live on the line and under poverty? On the one hand, you are talking about a humanitarian crisis and on the other you are increasing indirect taxes. In other words, you are horizontally increasing the most classic and unfair taxes, even creating, due to the duplication of planning, this alalum in island regions, private education, health and food. Leave the property tax, the property tax being abolished - otherwise - the bulwark of your election campaigns, together with the hundred instalments, unfortunately, that have gone by saying all of this. We welcomed the opening of the criteria for the 100-dose settings and in five months' time you are taking them back, leading a million citizens to derail any financial planning and, of course, having a different treatment. You are once again imposing horizontal measures, which, as I said before, dismantle family planning. So what? Oak if you're a owl than you don't have. I move on to the second assumption of the balanced budgets and the equivalent clause. Since 2010, ladies and gentlemen, in my speeches in this Chamber, I have been talking about the serious risks of changing the national model of economy to a labour-intensive economy. I was talking about the risks of poorer middle and low social strata. And don't imagine that I want to charge all this to the eight months of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. No, we are not going to sterile opposition to the show but to study the present multi-legislative plan and knowing what is next in the infamous agreement you signed, not only do I not see the healing but I see worsening in the Greeks' average living standards. And how can that not happen, ladies and gentlemen, since we all know that the balanced budget is the result of a balance between revenue and expenditure? When you have no political will to reduce the costs of the general state and attack the dynamics of revenues by a storm, how can you expect an improvement in the result? Invoke the philosophical policy, the redistribution of income, i.e. the cost side, where people, social structures, public utility organisations, etc. are being concealed. On the revenue side, what are we hiding, animals for milking? The greatest philosophical policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, is to hit unemployment. This is the maximal mission of those who are being cut over philosophical policies rather than protecting the big patient with statist ideals. And of course, all structures of social solidarity and programmes to combat extreme poverty must be supported. I repeat, however, that all these fellow citizens are asking us for jobs. On this, what exactly have you done? Where's the strategic development plan? Where's the red tape? Where's the small and flexible tax bill? Where are public administration interventions? I wish there was a magical recipe to fight unemployment. Unfortunately for you, however, you do not want - not only through the strengthening of healthy entrepreneurship, the private initiative of a brave Public Investment Programme can be achieved. Now I do not want to say anything about the equivalent clause, since it has become a joke and you should be serious about it. I'm done with the insurance. Things are very serious here. We're talking about a bomb on the foundations of social cohesion. The measures which impose further reductions in the low pensions provided for in this bill must be withdrawn in me and not only by unilateral actions but also by recourse to all those international organisations for their immediate preservation. No clause can lead our fellow citizens to the minimum standard of living, because this is cancelled de facto. The only and only possible solution to insurance is to combat unemployment, to combat black, undeclared work, to combat tax evasion, to reduce fertility. We cannot solve insurance with 28% unemployment. Until then, they are the highest priority for the protection of financially vulnerable groups, support through the State budget for the insurance funds, increasing the minimum guaranteed pension at minimum levels of minimum living. PASOK and the Democratic Reconciliation can no longer give you a white cheque for measures and memoranda that you, with your political incapacity and your negotiating insufficiency, are currently bringing to the House, because for seven months in the next few months you have been outside political reality. The Democratic Reconciliation has so far stood to the extent of the circumstances and has assumed its responsibility. Your time has come now, gentlemen, to rule. Except this time, you have to do it and rule. Because the time that passes is valuable and works at the expense of the Greek people. For five years you have been planting winds. I'm afraid it's time for you to reap storms. For all that I have said, I am voting against this bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelloney. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u346	The fascists are angry because we hurt their bosses and their ideological father Hitler. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence has demonstrated in our country's bourgeois order, in the European Union, in NATO and in various foreign funds, but also in the USA, that they can do better. Legislate and implement measures which have not been daring either the New Democracy or the PASOK. You create new profit fields for monopolistic groups, granting them ports, airports, energy, land areas, mountains and beaches. Above all, you give what capital demands, the further reduction of the cheap labour force in multiple ways, such as a reduction in wages, pensions, a reduction in public health, education, welfare and social security costs. You break the people's income with the storm of taxes and on the other hand relieve the capital, in the name of tax incentives for investment. The people's family, which fails to do so, is threatened by the fact that the majority of angomahas, lacking basic needs, even drugs, and the studies of their children, especially when they have to go to another city, are threatened by above and by imprisonment if they do not pay the HPAI, the contribution of solidarity, the tax on paid services, the robbery of VAT on first-hand goods and others. The "I don't pay the unfair taxes" you said when you were opposition, became a "patriotic duty to pay" with the first time left to the government and the second time there was a threat of imprisonment. The indicators of unemployment, further poverty, the impoverishment of the large share of our people, the migration of young people, continue to be upward. They are the abrupts of the politicians of all urban parties and governments, the result of the rotting capitalism. We are calling on the workers, the self-employed, the poor farmers, the women, the young people and the young people and we call on them not to recalculate, as all of you are calling on them with all these measures that come to serve the monopolistic business groups for an increasingly cheaper labour force. No sacrifice for pluralism, no tolerance to taxation, to medieval labour relations, to part-time work, to part-time life. The workers, the self-employed, the poor farm not to tolerate the abolition of social security. All now on the way to the struggle, to overthrow what is contained in this draft law, what is being implemented with circulars and what is being attempted by the new law that is being prepared. Everyone must participate massively and universally, regardless of what they voted on, at the rally tomorrow at 18:30 in the afternoon in Omonia, and on October 22 in all Greece and, of course, in the strike organised by many primary and secondary organisations on November 12th. You are provoking, when you say that the people agree with all these measures, since they voted in the elections. Let us remind you that the people had voted for other parties before you but put them in the opposition and others lower. Workers will not stay viewed or desperate and frustrated by their choices. We invite them not to identify their vote with your policy. The workers, the people, are sure that sooner or later - we are striving for this to happen quickly - will choose their own one-way, which is the organization everywhere, the participation in the struggles against the barbaric road you are serving, that is, the capitalist development path. In the multiplier plan, the insurance arrangements are a continuation of all the reinsurance laws of all the governments of the capital so far. The Anti-Soufa - Petralia, Loverdou - Koutrumani, Brutsi, were made on the grounds of the poor state of the funds and the safeguarding of viability. Everyone had the same recipe, that is, an increase in age limits, a reduction in pensions, abolition of heavy and unhealthy professions, abolition of rights for women, predicament of the reserves with the argument of exploitation, exemption of employers and the State from their participation. Now, just with the same arguments of sustainability, we have circulars, findings of the "woes" that some of them are dealers of private insurance owners and are serving to expand their clientele. The government claims that what was implemented with the circular was the laws of the PASOK government. But who prevented you from changing them? Who are you kidding? The workers have condemned the PASOK, they have not given you their vote to implement the PASOK laws. Aren't you the ones who grabbed EUR 422 million from pensioners for 2015 and EUR 854 million for 2016 and every year thereafter, with the argument of being involved in the health sector? Didn't you raise the age limits to sixty-seven or sixty-two to forty-years of work? Didn't you separate pensions from basic and proportionate? Didn't you reduce pensions to those who can't bear up to sixty-seven at basic pension and another 16% as punishment? Didn't you reduce the lower pension from EUR 487 to EUR 396 and even below? Do you not continue to reduce state funding, which this year is 40% less than 2009 and will be frozen by 2021? Do you not implement the arrangements of the memorandum, after you have cut the privileged part of the lower pensions, which means a reduction of up to 41% for the pensions of the IKA and up to 66% for the OGA pensions, which from EUR 360 are going to 120? Did you not agree to abolish CSR for 20% of the beneficiaries, with a reduction in their pensions up to EUR 193 per month?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u347	Not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u348	Yeah, I mean SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u349	Say it, SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u350	Now with the article on abolished provisions, do you not abolish pensions to older pensioners and retired persons? Do you not abolish EAFRD regulations, with the result that engineers, lawyers, doctors who have no business, even lose their profession, since they have to be insured? The list of your anti-grass measures has no end. But you are preparing the new crime against the majority of the Greek people. You're hitting the heart of social security. Refuse its universal, compulsory and redistributive character. You remove the state's guarantee for pensions, for the safety of the people's family. You leave a large proportion of the workers, the self-employed, the poor farmers. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Unemployment, flexible forms of employment, hunger wages, lead a large number of workers to take the thresholds, which, on the basis of your arrangements, will be up to EUR 280 and will still not be able to raise the four and a half thousand days of insurance, while staying without a pension. With the limits of sixty-seven years that you're imposing, you tell them to be at work or to look for work until they die. Forty-year work regulations for full-time work in sixty-two to 26% of unemployment, with generalised flexible work, with seasonal work, are a challenge for the majority of workers. How many can they have forty years of work and twelve thousand days of insurance? Are the OAS's employment programmes not sending young and uninsured young people to increase the profitability of the firm? Remove heavy and unhealthy occupations and other specialties. Increase the age limits to sixty-seven. Really, what do you say to all those who can't afford to be up to sixty-seven in the workplace? Will the teacher teach at sixty-seven with his catheter? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Social security is for workers the backbone of protection which combines the right to pension, the right to health and welfare, the protection of occupational hazards, accidents, occupational diseases, all those who have paid them with sweat and trouble and which are now being dismantled. The proposed proposal of the wises for a system of predefined contributions with individual accounts, the new rates of replacement at 45% to 55% in total for a main and supplementary pension of 70% and 20%, which is currently the state guarantee of a prosperous national pension, which will change under conditions, the integration of the funds by equation of pensions and benefits downwards, are the core of the new and more reactionary reform, which removes from social security its social character from social security. From right to right, it becomes a merchandise and social responsibility becomes an individual case. The new reinsurance proposals must be kept on paper. The working class has the power, it can and will stop you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u351	Thank you very much, Mr Kattotis. Before I give the floor to Mr Fotella, I would like to ask all sides, for restraint and respect for speakers and speakers respectively, for they represent opinions and thousands of our fellow citizens in this House. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the great historian of antiquity Thucydides in his monumental work on the peloponnesian war has dedicated a special chapter on the sad consequences of the civil war, the "Pathology" of war as it was called. More specifically, it referred to the distortion of conditions in times of crisis. Greece over the last five years has provided many examples of changing the meaning of the terms between the warring parties and governments. On your own government, however, over the last ten months and today's replenishment of the version, words have not only changed meaning but have completely lost it. This is, in fact, a complete distortion of hypocrisy and populism in this bill too. For the first series of prerequisites for the third memorandum, but also for what you will bring in some time, I explain as briefly as possible the distortions. You were talking about proud old age, and you flagged the increase in wages and pensions, but you seem to mean further reductions in pensions. Within just a few days you have taken back the granting of pensions to uninsured low-pensions and later they will come and follow new horizontal reductions in main and supplementary pensions. You were talking about dignity to farmers, voting as an astronomical election, putting in place and bringing in provisions just a few months ago, tax-free at EUR 12 000 and reducing their taxation. Now not only are you getting them back, but you will tax them further. You're talking about fighting tax evasion. What's going on in practice? Apart from a few correct regulations with Article 13, you are giving fines and surcharges and fees from large companies to local government, while absolve offshore companies for up to 100,000 tax. For the moral advantage you have been telling us for years, the revelations about omission of evidence from your Minister are indicative of how you are actually dealing with. Pour crocodile tears when you talk about dealing with youth unemployment and fleeing young scientists abroad. In practice, you are abolishing the possibility that only a few months ago the new members of the Single Fund have been granted an indebtedness to new lawyers, doctors and engineers to be subject to a lower insurance category by paying for reduced insurance contributions, which, on the basis of the information we have and which you have in mind, significantly improved the collection of debts and employment in general. Is it accidental that our country now ranks the top of the unemployed graduates among the OECD countries at 20%? In order to increase VAT on the islands, Mr Kammenos was electorally told that it would not be imposed and that the equivalents had been found. Today it turns out that the reduced rate will be abolished in the small ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u353	Not just to the little ones, to everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u354	That's right. All of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u355	All over the Aegean Sea.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u356	This also applies to private education with the increase in VAT to 23%. As far as public transport tickets are concerned, after you have wasted millions of millions of free journeys in the period before the referendum, in order to mold the citizens, you are now bringing new increases, about 8%, at an extra charge, as is seen for the unlimited journey cards. Really, how much did the free moves of dignity cost the Greek citizens, will Mr. Spirtz tell us? Of course, on the issue of privatization, absolute distortion is summarized in the limits of paranoia. You are voting for privatisations. Ministers wish you no further. Your Members even yesterday participated in demonstrations against them. No plan, no seriousness. I have in front of me - and I will submit it in the Minutes of the House - the press release of the Regional Ionian Islands, the great-minister of SYRIZA, which just issued a press release to investors, almost as persona non grata. The Vice-State of Corfu also sends a call, via Facebook, to the Corfiot people living in tourism, to react to the investment not to harm the guilds. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasson Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You were also talking about freedom of first residence from HICPIA. Now you're enlarging the debtors in HNVY, charging even the buildings. Exempt Agios Mount Athos from the performance of ΕΦΙΑ in buildings that it owns in Thessaloniki. Why, not in the entire Church, now that you have excluded them from the capital control? You were talking about expanding the hundreds of doses, and you actually gave a great deal more than 1 million debts. We all know which of them benefited. And no matter how much mud you throw into the river, it doesn't touch us. Now you're bringing arrangements to limit the rightholders. You talk to us about so-called cracks in Europe, when they see your mess in Greece, all they do not want to vote in Europe, are parties like yours. Check out the results in Portugal with the victory of centre-right. But, ladies and gentlemen, measures are hard, tax-supporting and as much as you try to change their words and meanings, they do not have any improvements. Refugee each proposal from the river. We had proposed to you in time the major political majorities as an antidote to a difficult agreement so that together, with many parties and costly ones, they could propose alternative measures, such as what our leader proposed to you in Mr Tsipras's programme statements. You refuse to deal with the client state and you too bear burdens on all Greek citizens. But we can't go on like this. You're not going far by mocking the world. In a very short time you will experience deception, with the discomfort already manifesting between your parliamentary group and your alternate ally. "The liar and the thief..." - says the people - "...rejoice in the first year." And we're already in nine months!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u357	With this side to sleep!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u358	I request your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. You remind us that the resolution of the third memorandum was passed by all parties, including us. We're responding. We voted for the agreement in the summer because the dilemma was set by the Prime Minister himself after the tragic negotiation he supposedly made last seven months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u359	And begged to join the Communion!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u360	"So either a vote on the memorandum..." - Mr Tsipras told us - or an exit from Europe." Let's finally stop talking about the Potami, that he was urging an agreement in every way. We said what the Prime Minister himself admitted in his recent interview, that if an agreement were reached sooner - yes, since March, ladies and gentlemen - we would have achieved a great deal more. By avoiding overtaxing citizens and the banks we would have saved, without needing additional billions to recapitalise them. However, in this text, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot participate. You have a full responsibility to implement it with the fine arrangements that you have agreed. We are voting against it in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Lightla. Mr. Nicolopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u362	Despite the important, excellent, talented, hypocritical, my good colleague and fellow citizen....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u363	It really does. He's the hypocrite!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u364	...and despite losing the amateur theatre a great talent like that, I don't think my colleague really did... [[Noise from the river Wing]] ...to change the role, to change the position, because there are no Greeks, who do not remember exactly how the Potami was born, what its sources are, where it comes from and where it goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u365	Say it! Say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u366	So, no matter how many new talents he gives, you know very well that they are indeed the ones who surpassed even the far right Adoni Georgiades in memorial positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u367	Where are you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u368	Don't say that. He's not taking you to New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u369	Ladies and gentlemen, less than a month ago the Greek people voted and in their vote they sent a clear message to the parties and, above all, to the parties that they chose to represent him as the government of the country. This message - in my personal view - is to vote in favour of the political forces which have told him that the new memorandum will be the last and that it will mark the end of the crisis, and will also bring about the restructuring of the debt, but it will also be accompanied by a parallel programme and a lot of equivalents, which will block the most unfortunate aspects of the memorandum, which certainly involves many and painful measures. I also believe that the people have voted in the elections for those forces who have spoken to them of a major structural change in the state and who have promised to be beaten by rot and corruption. And for this reason, I will fully agree with the underlining James made. Indeed, there is no moral questions on the right and left. Indeed, it should have been immediately closed when the matter was raised with the forgotten ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, I am quite clear that, as far as I am concerned, I feel bound by the people's mandate. A mandate that I think expresses both the voters who personally chose me once again, colleagues from Potami, as well as those who supported the few but not enough, the Christian Democratic Party, so that as a co-operating force with the Independent Greeks it would be in Parliament. And the Independent Greeks, at this point, are the government partners, as the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, pre-electionally asked the Greek people. I am therefore waiting for the new government to show a very strong reformist spirit and demonstrate that it knows and can conflict with corruption, changing the country and giving social justice to a state in which the too many feel suffocating from the state and the many few to stifle the state. I am also waiting, through this whole process of prerequisites, the assessment, the recapitalisation of banks, to see that we are actually heading for a significant debt restructuring but also for a return to normality in the economy, especially in the real market. I know that this is not a relaxing walk in the park. I am sure that we need not only political determination and force but also knowledge and competence, conflict with strong interests and much more. I am also aware that the doors to debt restructuring and exiting the crisis will be unlocked through the implementation of the new agreement and the measures and reforms it includes. So today we have a first package of measures and reforms before us. A package, the broad lines of which are part of the agreement and therefore serve as the key to opening up one of the doors that I have mentioned. In this package, however, there are more specific regulations which, in my view, not only constitute reform or contribute to the instability of social justice, but will not have any effect, and will also deepen the crisis and recession in the country. As a politician who wants to remain consistent with the people's mandate and as a Member belonging to the so-called governmental majority but who retains for himself the right to express his autonomous will and the principles of the Christian Democrat Party, I will say 'yes' in principle in the multi-project, at the same time disagreeing with specific articles. I cannot support measures that accumulate unbearable burdens for citizens. Because, as you will recall, we have, in the run-up to the election, promised a parallel to the Memorandum and equivalent to the relief of the citizens, who have already paid the heavy marble of the crisis and are now being called upon to pay from what they have not. I believe that some measures included in the plan, the government must review them and renegotiate them, adopting changes that will protect the weak. Ladies and gentlemen, since the election period, I have been saying - and many others have said so - that it is the time of truth for all of us. In the past few months, we have had the opportunity to see and listen to a lot and understand even more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It was a period of intense maturity and consciousness for the whole political system and society. Above all, we realised that overcoming the crisis is going through the major changes that need to be made in this state to become modern and effective and that we must finally agree on this place for a simple and long-term tax system and rely on healthy forces from the right and the left. In this difficult, together with hopeful, era, as one of the people's mandated representatives, I will simply and suddenly agree with any substantial reform and disagree with any new exercise of scorching, which simply stalls some holes on time, so that it can then open larger ones. I believe that every bill brought by the government should be a worker of 'private trades', because nothing should be left to his fate. Ladies and gentlemen, at political level, as long as the citizens are sending me here as their representative and proxy, I will express my 'yes' and 'no' freely, with complete consciousness of the responsibility that this coup d'état has and each of us has to deal with the citizens who only ask for one thing: Truth and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u370	Thank you very much, Mr Nicholas. Mr. Kalafatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's legislation which the government is putting forward for discussion, it takes its first step from the virtual reality that has been described for a long time, in the real reality that we are experiencing and will experience as Greek citizens. They are the first examples of writing, of a government that does not hesitate to vote against provisions which, in the previous parliamentary term, only a few months ago, have enthusiastically voted, which does not hesitate to impose tax burdens on already overtaxed citizens, such as property owners and does not hesitate to abolish allowances, even our uninsured over-aged fellow citizens. So, gentlemen of the government, you pass through the myth in reality. Because the truth is that until today, you have no problem other than to say, but to think about other things to do, sometimes because what you need to do for the good of your homeland does not believe them, such as privatisation, investment and major structural changes, sometimes because when you are inclined to do them, you see that you are resisting your little or big friends, small or large organized interests and subjecting to them and sometimes just because you do not have the necessary management capacity and skill to run the country in elementarily. And, of course, you do, because sometimes there is an explosive mixture of all I mentioned. Gentlemen of the government, you're not just in line with reality and truth. You've got a final divorce with these concepts. Your rhetoric is permanently opposite your practice and you as a government, are opposite the collective good of the popular strata. In both previous elections, you appeared as defenders of the poor and the weak, and you are coming today to betton their further poverty. And that's just the beginning. Whatever you say, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the truth is one. In charge of your Chief, you have suffered a unique mutation. Because in this life, you're not what you say, but you're what you do. And what you start to do to the Greek people by unrelentingly hitting those who are already hit by our fellow citizens' crisis, burdening them with excessive tax and other burdens, speak for themselves. The measures and burdens which the great centre-right party of the New Democracy did not even think about negotiating them. Measures and weights, showing the real face of SYRIZA, the face of one, as they say in my city, "demec" Left, a so-called Left. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are making a hug with a party that is ideologically separating you and it is obvious that the adhesive substance of this paradox has nothing to do with the length of power alone. And this strange marriage you want to present to us as the new one in politics. You were supposed to have come as saviours of the Greek tested society, but the truth is, you've all failed. The cost of governance SYRIZA - ANEL for 2015 and 2016 is inconceivable for the Greek economy and extremely painful for the Greek citizen. The Greek economy returns to the recession in 2015, while it is expected to remain in this situation in 2016. At the same time as unemployment in the eurozone is falling, Greece is growing. The public economy after two years from 2013 and 2014 to achieve primary surpluses, returns to primary deficit in 2015. Social security agencies are sinking into deficits. The government’s overdue obligations towards the private sector are growing. The level of additional measures by SYRIZA - ANEL is increasing. Only for the period 2015-2016, it is estimated with the current data at around EUR 6.5 billion and, unfortunately, this account is where it is more. Of the fiscal measures imposed by the SYRIZA ANEL Government, which can be determined to date, 62% are additional direct and indirect taxes and 38% are cuts in the expenditure side, 75% being cuts in main and supplementary pensions, social security benefits and social benefits. And, of course, the public debt is still growing. Gentlemen of the Government, I am sorry to say this, but you are just a mistake, a mistake that Greek society is paying for. You prepare measures that lead to impoverishment in the people's layers, give no prospect of hundreds of thousands of unemployed people, remove as much oxygen as has been left to free professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises, and make the most of the urban and rural population, mainly through an unprecedented tax burden and at the same time hesitantly, go ahead with structural changes and reforms that you do not believe, which your ministers question and which your voters deny. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, which is reflected in many today's draft legislation, which of course also has our negative vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u372	Thank you very much, Mr Kalafatis. The party's parliamentary representative will now have the floor. The Potami, Mr. Dannelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, and parliamentarianism must protect themselves. Violence and trabucism have no place in the temple of democracy and, ladies and gentlemen, we do not legalise a criminal organization by opening up any dialogue with it. Now, in the case of the other cardboard partner, Mr. Nicolopoulos, Mr. Nicolopoulos has to report to us the "blue sources" of Potami, otherwise it is a common sykophant and vulgarologist, which is well known. [[applause from the river Wing]] Then tell us our blurred sources.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u374	Oh, don't you want it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u375	Do you want to? Do you have any sources to report to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u376	Mr Dannelly, I would like to ask you, not for personal references and not for dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u377	The slander and the insults were for a particular person.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u378	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u379	But he must name our sources.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u380	I'm willing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u381	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u382	Sure. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Nicholas. Let's find out. Maybe it's time to find out our sources. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Even today, ladies and gentlemen, three months after the Prime Minister's abnormal landing in reality and the signing of the agreement with the partners that led to the SYRIZA Memorandum - ANEL, unfortunately, the government continues its bankrupt tactics of the dual language...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u383	Racist and homophobic. That's who you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u384	Please. No dialogue. Go on, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u385	... instead of finally speaking the language of sincereness to the Greek people and building relationships of trust with the Opposition. How's SYRIZA? He continues to claim for himself the use of a double language and the right to step on two boats, confronting and opposing his government. This is what we read in the decision of the top institution, namely the central committee, which met last weekend: "After seven months of tough negotiation, which was recognised not only by Greeks and Greeks but also by all the peoples of Europe, and despite the grand 'no' in the referendum on 5 July, the government was faced with a brutal blackmail that led to the acceptance of a very difficult agreement." It is still - we have heard this repeatedly in here today - stressful and hypocritical to get rid of the responsibilities of disastrous non-negotiating, accusing Potami of being morally self-sufficient in the painful memorandum. You're still ungrateful, Mr. Nicolopole. It's obviously not personal. Insulting, then, the argument that we were saying 'give you an agreement, and we support you', in silence, firstly, that we also said 'the sooner, the better, the better and the better, and not after the end of the support programme' and, secondly, we did not even participate in the negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, the refusal to defend the agreement signed by your Government is on your behalf a recipe for a certain failure. The total lack of planning and preparation has, unfortunately, led you to material measures, to horizontal and even retrospective tax increases, precisely what you charged to the previous governments. I have been able to discover few things in this bill, which I could hardly describe as development measures. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot vote in principle on this bill, I can list why. Consultation on only two days, in the absence of explanatory statement to OpenGov, a flagrant violation of the principles of good legislature, as foreseen by Mr. 40482012 and unnecessarily biased, legislative changes, modifications and abolition of provisions with unlimited references to provisions and laws whose title is not even mentioned, unambiguous entry into force for a number of individual provisions relating mainly to the tax provisions of the bill and making it the riddle for possible solutions, adding serious articles that appeared as magic in the draft law submitted to the House after the end of the consultation - and I am talking about Articles 10, 11, 12 - the addition of provisions introduced in a draft law introduced under the urgency procedure and not related to the Memorandum. In the end, it is a legal text that really needs deciphering even from qualified lawyers. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you must at last assume the responsibility of courageously moving forward with the great reforms needed by the country, reforms that remain unresolved over time and make us ubiquitous and poor relatives to the other 'normal' states of the European Union. Tell the truth! Describe things as they are and not on the basis of your previous anti-immemorial rhetoric and ideas, which unfortunately still afflict many of you. The country can't stand it anymore. You are well aware that any new cut in income and pensions will reduce consumption, domestic demand and lead to further disinvestment. You take back the provisions of Article 21. We voted on the so-called military law, part of which we - the 'domestic troika' -. Now you're actually calling us to do what? Should we defy them? What changed after only three months? Obviously, you have been afflicted in reality and discovered the reservations we have made since then, namely, that for everything that we were legislating at the time, the resources of the state might not have been sufficient and could have been seen as a unilateral energy. You are now calling on us to vote on the abolition of the minimum pension for uninsured over-ages, as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises or the abolition of supplementary pensions for non-workable persons due to an accident involving seafarers. You are asking us to vote against the possibility of opting for an insurance class for the EBRD for young scientists, pushing them into even more massive waves towards unemployment or inevitable immigration, even though the funds have benefited. You are calling on us to vote on the abolition of the pension netting of debts, so that thousands of people cannot get their pensions. They are provisions which we voted on because we considered them - and we still consider them to be fair. And all of the above-mentioned categories of citizens - I remind you - do not belong to the privileged. Admit it. The coming winter will be particularly heavy in accounts and unjust burdens on the weakest in society. Do you know that your current choices make you highly conservative? In the end, Mr. Kammenos and the ANELs must have taught you to write on the right. On tax now, your general principle seems to be to tighten up the repressive measures against strengthening the prevention and introduction of a rational, fair and European tax system. Legislation is unreasonable, since you open the window wide to corruption, by closing the eye to those who "worm" and "wrap" by allowing late statements at the time of tax control. What about the'mother' of all the legislation of the previous parliamentary term, the famous regulation of 100 doses? It was a bill that came incomplete and needed two acts of legislation - I would remind you - in order to become operational or almost operational, since the prescribed doses have largely failed, since 10% of the debtors, i.e. 1/6 of the regulated debts, were out of order within a few months. And how can this not be the case, when the hundred-dollar adjustment is lost, when those who cannot repay their current tax obligations? This is absurd. Clearly, this treaty leads the majority of the benefiting citizens out of regulation, because it is inevitable that the partial impossibility of paying the new tax burdens is not being regulated. In an environment of recession, how do you expect those already from the previous tax year not to meet their household obligations to meet the new very heavy obligations? At the same time, unfortunately, you are 'indifferent' to what we have been asking - and not only us - for information, namely, how many and exactly who are the public's surpluses have benefited from an act of legislation which was allegedly concerned with the Greek Sugar Industry, but basically it has relieved them of fines even from the Customs Code, i.e. fines for the smuggling of oil, tobacco and I do not know what else. ENVIRONMENT. Another big chapter of your opposition rhetoric and relics that reality itself invites you to deal with. At first you'd take him down. Then you'd tolerate him for one, about a year. Now, at the expense of a lack of revenue, due to inability and apparent government deficiency, HISH is permanently and is growing for everyone. For everyone? Not exactly. Nordally, in Article 2(3), property situated in the territory of the Greek state is commercially profitable, generate income but belong to Mount Athos, excluded. Why this privileged treatment on your part? How does this "eye" transaction fit with your defence of the timeless demands of the Left for separation of state and Church? Why don't you finally legislate a framework with clear terms, without shadows and transactions 'under the table'? Why, since you are forced to keep HNVO as a tax, do you apply it to the ground floor, since you do not connect it to the income that ensures a property to its owner? Why don't you reform him even better so he can be rewarded? Why don't you look at good examples such as Ireland, which, like Greece, is characterized by extensive and widespread ownership? What did Ireland do? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me a few minutes from my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u386	All right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u387	It moved from a general property tax to a recurring local property tax, which burdens all dwellings and is attributed to the municipalities as a whole. This means financing local services, infrastructure, such as public parks, libraries, planning and development of structures, firefighting, as well as the maintenance and cleaning of public spaces. A percentage of the tax collected could be directed to a central fund as a balancing mechanism for the poorest regions, where tax revenues would be lower. And of course, as far as we are concerned, I do not know why the burden on HNVO was chosen to bear on the small units of the rental rooms and apartments which are mostly located in mountain or island areas. I believe that this choice is inappropriate. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we will not vote on this multi-brand plan when Articles 10 and 13 provide that the collection of municipal fees is to be abolished retrospectively by all concessionaires to the public. We in Potami believe that the municipalities should benefit from the business activities that take place within or around their limits and involve infrastructures granted by the Greek State to either Greek or foreign individuals. We are not voting for a multi-brand plan, which even rightly provides for, such as the implementation of the OECD toolbox for the opening of the professions or the alignment of the retirement limits in the private and public sectors, is lost in an orchestra of written articles and provisions. We will not vote for a bill which is trying to maintain your so-called proud attitude towards the partners, but is actually attacking the citizens' wallet wildness. We're not going to vote for a plan that looks like it's on purpose in order to serve your aristocratic rhetoric. I suggest, however, that, now that we are all memoranda, that you acquire courage and propose to the Greek people a comprehensive, clear and concrete, measurable plan for exiting the crisis and proactively from the memoranda. In this effort you will be sure to find us next to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr Karaoglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, just a few weeks after the elections on 20 September, Greek society is becoming increasingly aware of the great lies that Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos have told her in order to respect the vote of Greek citizens both in January 2015 and in September that we have been passed on to us. The multi-brand plan, which we are debating today in Parliament's plenary, unfortunately leads Greece on a road without return. It's a bill that's deeply substantiated, tax-driven. It punishes microprojectors who have joined the settings with the famous 100 dose schedule. It taxes non-existent incomes, such as the unresolved rents we expect to see their withdrawal. It increases tax rates. It reduces basic and supplementary pensions. It increases the burdens of the ENPIA, the one you would have done away with. Finally, all you do is remove the exemptions and discounts from HNVIA, which the previous government had done. It eliminates what's left of the middle class. It treats as multipliers the wage earners of 30,000 euros a year and as zapluts, the pensioners of 1,000 euros a month. It finally stirs the dreams of each household for better days. In short, it marks the dissolution of the social fabric. It's an equatorial bill, which I think has nothing to do with the Left, as you were at least electorally describing us. My speech here today in Parliament should normally be accompanied by a presentation with photos of your left worries, but we should not be forgotten. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, dropped the previous government, the Antonis Samaras national co-operation government, because you claimed that Hardouvel's 980,000,000 post predicted a slight reduction in supplementary pensions. And now you're coming and you're going to vote much longer on the main pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u390	The abolition of supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u391	Nevertheless, you ask for a discharge of responsibilities and absolvement of sins, because you declare, he says, sad. After all, we must not forget the famous electoral melancholy of the Left. You are the ones who, in 2014, after five years of constant recession, had succeeded in re-entering the Greek economy, you have again achieved a new deep recession and you have constantly shared new taxes. You are the ones who led us to capital controls and closed banks and recession, and now we hear you say that the memorandum must be implemented quickly and you vote proudly - you will do so tomorrow evening - 'yes' to everything. You are the ones who, while placing on the Greek people better days and raising their standard of living, level it down. You are the ones who, while you promised you would change Europe, all you have changed is the tax advance that you took to 100%. You are the ones who, while you have promised that you will protect VAT on the islands and will not ultimately increase it - despite the battles which were made by the chosen colleague and friend Yiannis Vroutzis - bring it up and that is by applying an unjust policy against the islands, ignoring the relevant constitutional check. You are the ones who, while applauding the Prime Minister at the time when he spoke from this Step a few days ago to return to growth in 2016 - that is what Mr Tsipras told us a few days ago - yet close your eyes when you read the budget that we will also have a recession in 2016. In order not to remember your famous expressions about german germans, dolphins, Tsolacoglou, analgesics, and I do not know which others or the marches, demonstrations, spontaneous condolences, the gatherings of the indignant out here in Syntagma Square. The most oxymoved is that officials of your own party are protesting in the last few days against the measures they have voted for or will vote in a few hours! The hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, is a long way off. Finally one wonders what was different from the faded red memorial. I'll answer you. The second Memorandum, the Blue-Green Memorandum, led to the primary surpluses of two consecutive years, 2013-2014, led to a break in the recession - growth we had in 2014 by 0.8% - we reached a step before the exit into the markets and led the Greek economy to the path of recovery and reconstruction. On the contrary, the third memorandum, signed by Tsipras - Kammenos, cost us about EUR 90,000,000,000 new loans, cost us new measures of around 15 billion and keeps Greece captive yesterday. I only wonder what would happen to this Greek Parliament, if this bill had been tabled by another government, not so much - in introductory terms - 'progressive' as the current bill wants to be presented. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, the left-wing government's statement, dismantles what is left of the middle class, leading to the poverty of millions of our Greek fellow citizens. The account that comes is extremely heavy for employees, pensioners and property owners. We, as a New Democracy, are not going to become an accomplice to crime against society. As we have made clear in the debate on the government's planning positions, no bill will go through unreasonable posins, without criticism of goodwill and constructiveness. We will support the major changes that will bring investments and new jobs, but of course we will collide with all your policies that are preventing competition for the benefit of morbid state and partyism. You will now face your own responsibilities. It's time to lower your left fist that so far you've been supposedly racing. I know that some of you in the government are smiling and happy with our internal-party developments. But believe me, New Democracy from this process will come much stronger, much more united. This process is not unprecedented for us. It is a democratic process that we have done on a number of occasions. Because we know our responsibility towards our compatriots and the country. We never split the Greeks. On the contrary, we've always tried to unite them. We never lied to them. On the contrary, we warned them about what will follow. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are flesh from the people's flesh, as Mr Tsipras said in his speech in his January schedule statements. And normally on this line I should squeeze or shed any tears. However, we will see how much flesh from the flesh of the people is Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA now with the implementation of these measures. In closing and respecting the time given to me by the Bureau, I have only the following to say. The more the crisis is dramatically prolonging, the more your responsibilities become. The hours are national and socially critical, and citizens finally demand that truths be heard from the lips of SYRIZA and ANEL parliamentarians, who were electorally robbed of hope. They expect to hear truths from those who, while the pioneers of the “I Do Not Pay” movement, have been lured from the lust of power and are now bowing to the one-way of the absolute application of the Memorandum. It is therefore understandable, by concluding, that the New Democracy is voting against the bill in principle, because it very simply considers it unfair, inhumane and societal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr. Karaoglu. Mr Stavros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u393	Ladies and gentlemen, I begin my position by taking on the basis of the last sentence of the speech by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Juliarakis, the day before the meeting of the committees. Mr. Juliarakis said: "I wonder whether the New Democracy has finally broken its ties with both the logic and the legacy of the same party of Constantine Karamanlis, Panagiotis Kanellelopoulou and Panagios Papaligura." First of all, I am pleased that the Minister now recognises the strategic position of the New Democracy in the ideological and political spectrum, as he established it and implemented it with benefits for the country, the founder of Constantine Karamanlis and his chosen political partners. But it is wrong, I assume, from political point of view and not from a blind intention. We have not only broken the ties, but we are proud of this legacy. With every opportunity we are crossing our faith in our time-consuming ideological and political core, that of radical and social liberalism and the social market economy, which leads us to the constant search for a harmonious balance between economic efficiency and social justice, in order to promote effective growth, employment and social cohesion. We are proud that the New Democracy over the last forty-one years, apart from deliberate devaluations of its role, has the most beneficial for the country to participate in post-government public life than for the other political parties. And I stress that cumulatively in the election campaigns has brought together the highest citizens' confidence. I am pleased that the Minister recognises this contribution. At the same time, of course, I understand your own political void, because after any ideological wanderings and the memorial mutation, you have delivered the soul of the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, the left government has tabled another multi-legislative draft in the context of the implementation of the third memorandum. It is a memorandum bearing the stamp only of SYRIZA and ANEL, a memorandum of inspiration, ownership and execution of the left government. After all, I would remind you that for six months the government triumphantly triumphed the ownership of the programme. It is a multi-brand plan with no consistency, not even substantial, coherent explanatory statement, a multi-brand without development sign and compass, with strong underlying features running its provisions, a multi-project that bears and adds retroactively new taxes to immovable property, a multi-plier plan that modifies the arrangements for outstanding debts beyond the increase in the interest rate already implemented, even introducing the arbitrary role of the management's underlying crisis to reduce the number of instalments, subjective a crisis that can potentially fuel transaction and corruption, a multi-project that abolishes pension provisions and even laws passed in 2015. For these reasons, the New Democracy, as its rapporteur said, is voting against the plan in principle. It will, however, support those provisions that are even stricter than the framework for dealing with tax evasion, but it is certainly enough to tighten it up, and it will also support the provisions that strengthen the financial management and discipline framework. After all, when the New Democracy and the PASOK introduced the relevant provisions in 2014 with v. 4270, SYRIZA voted against them and today he recommends them. Because yesterday the Deputy Minister of Finance also carried out some evaluation crises, distorting reality, I would like to make just two brief points. First label. He wondered: 'The opposition disagrees with the centralisation of public accounts in an account'? I'm sorry, but are you asking us? I would remind you that the New Democracy, in cooperation with PASOK in September and December 2014, has closed a thousand public accounts in order to achieve the monitoring and planning of cash flows. I put the relevant FEC into the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned FECs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then SYRIZA voted against this arrangement. So, Minister, you probably did not systematically monitor developments. You misguided the addressees of the question. SYRIZA is the recipient. Second point: has Mr Juliarakis asked the following question: 'The opposition disagrees with the activation of the Financial Council'? I think the Minister's still messed up. When the New Democracy with the PASOK recommended and voted for the recommendation of the Financial Council in 2014 with the n. 4270, SYRIZA, through his rapporteur, who is the current Minister of Finance, said - and I put it in the Minutes - "An independent authority is formed with excessive powers, without any popular legitimacy". And she voted against it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So first self-criticize your pirates, ask SYRIZA and leave the rhetoric question to New Democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more thing. Two hours ago the Minister of Finance defended the provision that the Court of Auditors' preventive control is abolished. A year ago, the Minister of Finance, as rapporteur for SYRIZA, on a relevant provision of the then government of New Democracy and PASOK with which they merely increased the limits of preventive control from 15 000 to 30 000, stated: 'If the prudential control of the Court of Auditors is slowly lost, then the Court of Auditors will have a role as a private audit firm. We have seen in all the Anglo-Saxon countries that this approach has not been able to deal with the problems of corruption and waste". That is what the Minister said on 24 June 2014. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you voted against and now you are voting for the full abolition of the Court of Auditors. Incredible, unprecedented obituary transformation! I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. Mr President, I note, therefore, that you are trying to blur the public debate in order to cover these obsessions and the SYRIZA Memorandum Mutation. The New Democracy will not allow it. He'll clean up the atmosphere. It will also not imitate SYRIZA's long-term practices. It will not engage in political speculation on the problems of the country and the citizens. He won't say 'no to everything.' The useful strategies for the country's progress will support them. The beneficial policies for weak and medium-sized social strata will support them. All other strategies and policies will reject them. He'll vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u394	Thank you very much, Mr Stakoura. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I have to start from today's presentation of the Commission's findings set up by Mr Katrugalos. Without, of course, deepening the analysis of the proposals, at first reading, we see that the famous insurance reform which Mr Katrugalos has announced, the'social contract', is nothing but proposals to demolition social security. Yes, social security needed reform. The 2010 insurance reform was not protected, it was not implemented and before it started giving results, it had started its "Class". Unfortunately, this tactic that has been followed since the beginning of time, has accumulated, however little space, too much cost for the insurance system. We have this monstrous situation by a government, which had used us as opposition, as a small and a larger party, to speak of social rights and indeed with a veil of social sensitivity. State funding to the insurance funds is reduced by EUR 2.5 billion. This option is that creates a new deadlock in the insurance system. It is not just some structural problems that had to be tackled and treated with n. 3863/2010. It's a huge new problem that comes in. The first result of this bill - and it also came with previous bills - is an increase in the burden on the insured, increases in insurance contributions. It became 12% for IKA's insurance contributions. It now comes to a sensitive social group, a scientific group, young scientists - we say, in fact, that the best minds go abroad and we must keep them and everyone spills crocodile tears and, above all, the government - and increases insurance contributions to young engineers, young doctors and young lawyers. This is the choice of this government, without being included in the memorandum. Tell us which article of the contract or agreement is included. And if it's still included in a footnote, he's badly signed it. Is it possible for this bleeding that we have to deal with by increasing the cost of insurance for young people? What does the Committee of Wise Men say? He says: "You, young people, who will pay from here and beyond increased insurance contributions, when the time comes to get a pension, we will see if you have made a caller, if you have made a home, if you have earned any income. And if you've done this in your life, you won't be retiring." This is the view of this government that has fully joined the neoliberal model, which brings us to Europe as a Trojan Horse of demolition of the European social model. This choice of Europe's conservative circles to demolish the European social model as supposedly prerequisite for the competitiveness of the European economy, unfortunately, has accepted by SYRIZA to carry it out. A project which will obviously be implemented in other countries of the European Union in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues are very serious and apart from a simple regulation of individual issues or prerequisites. The arrest of n. 4331, all the provisions which the large majority of the House had agreed to, cannot be made with the hundreds of fifty-five today. It can't be politically done. A vast majority had supported both the committees and the House these provisions because they were necessary. Finally, we found a common place to restore the pre-insurance pension for the uninsured, which concerns all Greek citizens, all Greeks and repatriators, all who have no income to live and are over-aged. This predictive pension, unfortunately, was not possible with a horizontal decision in 2012 for many thousands of our fellow citizens. With the provision that we voted in June, this injustice was restored. And the government comes to abolish it, while the memorandum speaks of extending the welfare pension of the OGA. So there is a mockery here to the whole Parliament, to all the Members of Parliament. The first mockery is that he's supposed to be in the deal. The second, of course, is why. Since other arrangements cannot be implemented, have they again chosen the already burdened citizens? But, five years the people, the citizens have been in debt. And we put them in new cargo again? And who? The ones who said they'd hit the dolphins? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Tell me a provision, ladies and gentlemen, of this bill that beats the few-farmers. One! There is no provision against the powerful or to make a redistribution of burdens or to take an extra tax from the powerful. I'm afraid so. And you come here to support the provisions without concern. I can't believe it. There's a lot of thought in it. Maybe he's in internal proceedings. I do not want to blame people who obviously have the sensitivity and raise these issues in certain procedures. However, this debate must also be held in Parliament. It cannot be left in the dry frames either of the parties or of the offices, or of those of you who are talking with the troika, the quartet, the institutions and any other far-sighted ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen - to be consistent with time too - these measures cannot make the country out of the deadlock. Ten times to baptize them as a prerequisite, unfortunately, come to burden even more the situation that has arisen, the great recession and the demolition of the real economy that has come as a result of mistaken choices. Unfortunately, since last autumn, on the issue of the banking system, with banks that had gone through the hardest crack tests in Europe, and with regard to the positive rate that had come back, we lost it and reintroduced it, but also with regard to the optimism of the citizens themselves, we are at least three years back. The European Commission appreciated eleven. I've been saying three years. If that's possible! This attempt cannot be made with new material measures. It cannot be done with new tax measures, with new budgetary adjustment measures alone. The possibility of this country is one: to use the comparative advantages it has as a country and especially human resources and to move forward. We do not see this either within the agreement or within this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, may I have the floor for a legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u398	How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u399	Wait a minute, Mr President, for a legal correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u400	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr President. This is a correction to Article 8 of the draft law amending Article 71 of the Law. 4174/2013. The correction is without any regulatory significance. The amount of the old law was wrongly recorded, which is changed by the new law. So we change it from 100,000 to 170,000, which is the right thing to do. I'll testify right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, if the Minister permits, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u403	Mr. Paradise, would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u404	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u405	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u406	In order to define, Minister, our standpoint in Article 8 and because we are rather positive, I would like to ask you whether there is an ad hoc ad hoc committee on economic criminal law, on the so-called 'economic crimes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u407	We have already set up a committee during the previous government, which I think continues to be of importance, because in addition to the changes made here under this legislation, there are many issues in economic criminal law and we want to see them in the near future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u408	Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when reading the bill of government, I thought of a Monty Pythons film, where some decide to rob the rich and give the poor money. The problem is that every time they forget who have robbed and gone again to rob the same rich and render prey to the poor, until at some point the old rich have become so poor that they can no longer receive the resources they want. Something similar is also the case with the tax provisions of this bill, where as "rich" of course - please replace! - are considered to be those who have an annual income of up to 20,000, which is now considered by the government as a very large income. Also place the thousands, hundreds of small property owners and certainly don't forget the pensioners of EUR 1000 a month. It may seem to some that the period when SYRIZA's executives instigated his movements "I don't pay". Of course, it is not too far and complaints about the tax policy of the previous government. And of course, it is not far away - it has only been two months - that you said that the new agreement is better than the previous ones and that the burden on the citizens will be supposedly smaller. The contents of this legislation certainly disproves SYRIZA's gentlemen and ladies, who argued they would be lighter than the previous ones. I have heard too many suggestions from the Members of the Co-Population, and I really wonder why they will vote on it. For example, some have termed it 'neo-liberal'. But is that really so? A bill to describe it as a so-called 'neo-liberal' - that is, it does not have the rule as a central option - would take care to leave a space of movement on the private initiative, trust the functioning of the market and entrepreneurship. But is that something like this from the bill? Clearly not. In fact, not only does it affect the size of the state, but it ensures that it is reproduced and financed by new taxes. And in what way does he do it? In the well-known way of the 'first time left', i.e. the previous government. Firstly, it does not extend the cycle of those affected by the measures. Once again they themselves. The result? Even more difficult to adjust and respond to taxpayers. And of course, you don't have any illusions if in the coming months revenue collapses. Secondly, with a clearly unfair sharing of costs. The advantage that the Left is supposed to be evangelizing for all these years is its theoretical ability to share wealth fairly. In the absence of this wealth and due to the inability of the government to leave it, it has nothing to do with redistributing and sharing poverty with new tax burdens on already overtaxed real estate owners and with higher proportionate burdens on the lowest incomes, and even retroactively. Of course, there are also issues of the constitutionality of the relevant provisions. There were, of course, colleagues, as well as ministers of government, who presented the bill as a one-way street. Some economists from the SYRIZA party know that apart from the increase in taxation, there are three ways to maintain or even increase public revenues: combating tax evasion, cutting and rescheduling expenditure and creating growth. Of course, as far as the third is concerned, so far we have seen absolutely nothing. On the other hand, it is important to wonder how long companies will endure paying higher taxes on consumption and the loans of most of them threatening them to be bankrupt. The government must also tell us how it expects companies to move forward with investment projects when they create conditions of continuous bleeding of capital. Not to mention, of course, those enterprises that, after a long-term loss-making process, returned in 2014 to profitability and increased the advance payment of the tax and increased taxation are delaying their recovery. Of course, I am now coming to the question of cutting expenditure. There was a great deal of room for manoeuvre. I have categorised some of the press reports: the incredible waste that is being done with public rents and I am glad that the Minister of Finance is here as well. The Ministry of Finance recommending today's measures pays EUR 24 million annually in rent, while it could house its services in the numerous properties it has throughout Athens. The services of the Ministry of the Environment are housed in nineteen different buildings, for which 2 million rents are paid per year. For twenty-two police departments in Athens are paid 22 million euros a year. As far as tax evasion is concerned, I would like to say: You have made your flag to stop smuggling into fuel and pre-election and in previous years, and unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, from SYRIZA, you have done absolutely nothing in the ten months of your administration. The Joint Ministerial Decision on the system of input-output into tax warehouses is still pending. Joint Ministerial Decision is still pending setting out the specifications and details for the completion of the GPS system in tankers and waterways. The Joint Ministerial Decision on the implementation of the system of input-outputs in all areas of the supply chain, in the warehouses of large consumer fuels, in the premises of public or private construction stations, in the supply stations of vessels, in the marinas, everywhere. And there's no excuse anymore, you're government about nine months. I expect you to tell us when you're finally gonna publish them. Ladies and gentlemen, the plan that we are debating is neither a neo-liberal nor a one-way one. I could well describe it as a monument of statement. And that's because the government has chosen that, that's all it knows to do. From the absolute anti-immemorial denial and the seven-month pelagic runway, we have now reached the violent landing that will necessarily lead to extreme measures and situations. The bill we are discussing is nothing but the first instalment of the inflated account that Greeks will pay in the next few months for the mistakes of a government, which not only daringed but repeated what she denounced. And maybe the worst thing that's happened to us is not the crisis. The worst thing is to see that the ones who have to take the country out into the clearing continue to go on using the timeless modern Greek method'seeing and doing'. Unfortunately, this is the best guarantee of failure. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, look at an interesting statistical element and you will understand why I mention it. One hundred speakers have written for this meeting, for the multi-project. In terms of co-government, only thirty have been registered by SYRIZA and two by the Independent Greeks, i.e. only 1/5 of the parliamentary power of the parties supporting the government support this bill through their speeches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u410	Thank you very much, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr. Andriane has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u411	Mr President, I am the only speaker of the Centroon Association and I was invited to a committee with our Italian guest and because I am an Italian learner, I had to go to committee. But I am the only of the Centroun Association. I don't want more than two minutes, because what I want to say is a little bit and make a sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u412	When we're done, Mr. President. After getting up to the Step, you have to respect the speaker, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u413	When you're done, I didn't think I'd precede. I said it so that the President could schedule it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u414	Please, all right. Here you go, Mr. Andriane.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again in the multi-project we are discussing today, it shows the total impossibility of this government to think about, plan and implement even fundamentally a country's exit strategy from the crisis. We saw it a few days ago in the programme statements, and we see it even clearer now that we are no longer talking about intentions, visions, left-handed concepts and other such abstract concepts, but about the very specific and socially painful consequences of the seven-month negotiation that preceded it. We will not get tired of repeating the clear truth. The measures we are debating today have the seal of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. So we will not get tired of repeating until everyone is understood and shared that if the seven months of the so-called so-called negotiations were not invaded, the country would now be in growth and not back in recession, unemployment would fall and it would not increase, the surplus would be guaranteed and we would not be running to cover new deficits. If these seven months had not been intervened, we would now be discussing the first measures to heal the wounds of the crisis, instead of the measures opening up new and deeper wounds. That is not enough because of these manoeuvres, we are talking today about new tough measures. It is even worse as, as it is clear, anyone who is simply unravelling the predictions of this bill will find that there is a total absence of any unifying logic, of any strategic planning, of any concept of social justice. They are measures taken by the government in its attempt to collect as - like the billions that the proud negotiation has cost. In this anguish, neither do you care about efficiency, nor about social justice in burden-sharing, nor about your consistency with what you were saying in the election because it is clear to me that the terms of the hundred-dollar arrangement are changed. The post-election abolition of the option of a lower insurance category to the freelance professionals, a law that you have voted in the election beforehand to override the votes of lawyers, doctors and engineers, young scientists, a law which has even made more revenue in the insurance funds. It is a pity to the Security Body, because on the one hand you are giving pre-election extensions to bodies such as the PDO, the Panhellenic Police Federation, the Panhellenic Port Authority, fire extinguishers, to convert their subsidiary fund to a professional fund, and on the other you are abolishing this provision before even the extension given until 31 December. It is a pity to abolish the minimum pension for thousands of uninsured over-ages, to abolish the subsidiary for seafarers who you have again voted in elections and now you are voting against. It is now becoming a transformation of the insurance system from redistributive to recapitalisation by a government that wants to be said to be socially sensitive. It is gratifying to maintain the so-called objective values of immovable property in the out-of-real data for 2008, when you are committed to equating them with commercials, the supposed expansion of the tax base with the imposition of HPAI even in small traditional hotels, even in the rented rooms, which will kneel forty-seven thousand small family businesses and taxation from the first euro. It is a felony - and at least that you took it back after the reactions - the taxation of undeclared rents, that is, you went to tax no income. These are not prerequisites, as you yourself admitted, as 23% is not a prerequisite for education, as the question of farmers in the summer was not a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u416	That's what's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u417	Of course, there is a hindrance about the so-called two-day consultation, with some articles even not being consulted at all. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that these measures are primarily socially unfair. They disproportionately fall on the backs of the weakest social groups. They burden incomes and property that exist only in the government's imagination. The only redistribution achieved by the left government of SYRIZA - ANEL is backwards. Instead of aid, it is the further strangulation of those who have nothing more to give, to those who are our own debts, regardless of their ideological origin, to support this difficult adventure. Secondly, the measures are doomed to fail. Why does who really think that tightening the hundred-dollar settings will bring more revenue to the state funds? Who really believes that the abolition of the optional insurance for young scientists will bring more revenue to the insurance funds? Who believes that the hardest ENPY will yield cash? The tax margins, in particular for the social and income groups that the government is targeting in this bill, have long been exhausted. And that, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you know that too. You hear it every day in your contacts. You made it your flag when you were in the opposition. Instead of discussing measures to stimulate development today, instead of our anxiety here in this Chamber now concerns the mix of development policy to be implemented, we are again discussing the existing measures that you have brought to cover the enormous financial damage that you have experienced and caused in the past nine months. Thirdly, these measures are essential. And here the problem is not only the measures that are in the wrong direction, but it is also the deepest approach of the government towards reality, an approach which does not allow you to critically identify the mistake and propose realistic and effective countermeasures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The Left's approach, therefore, is, of course, under normal circumstances, an increase in taxation for the redistribution and growth of the state. This can therefore work, even in time and with long-term negative effects, in normal circumstances, in an economy which is developing. In Greece, however, 2015, it is clear that it cannot function. What we need today is growth, direct investment, is the creation of new jobs to combat unemployment. We need, as quickly as possible, a drastic reduction in taxation, which will serve at the same time two central objectives: both attracting direct investment and stimulating global demand. So whether classically, liberally, anyone sees it or centrally, in the same conclusion, it will come to an end. And here we are, there is no other way to reduce the tax burden from reducing the financial needs of the state. Well, then, the fight against tax evasion is a good one, but at this time and at this point in time, the main priorities need to be, on the one hand, the creation of jobs, real jobs, which contribute to the creation of wealth for our society and, on the other, rationalisation, the household of the state machine, so that it can pay more and cost less. Why, ultimately, the more effective the state becomes and the more dynamic the economy becomes, the better we will be able to implement redistribution policies, wherever it really needs, and social justice as well. Unfortunately, however, these axes are completely absent both from the bill we are discussing today and from the general logic of the government, a government which is declaringly contrary to both entrepreneurship and any change in the 'early cow' of stateism. This approach is completely absent from the left ideological arsenal. We say, therefore, that the measures we are asking for today are in their vast majority of measures unfair, ineffective, materially, which do not fall within a wider strategic planning. We, however, support the New Democracy as a responsible force, which predictions are moving in the right direction, but we cannot in any case support and should stand against any measure that comes as a result of this government policy and will certainly make it more difficult instead of facilitating the state of the economy and the real living conditions for Greeks and Greeks. That is why we are voting against the bill in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u418	Thank you very much, Mr. Adriane.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Curublis, for how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u421	For two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u422	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, I would like to table a legislative improvement in Article 13(4), which reads as follows: ‘Finally and related fines which have been recognised by final judicial decisions to be paid to the relevant TAs are excluded from these rules and are normally collected’. I submit it and I ask it to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u424	The rest?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u425	Mrs Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u426	Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago in reading the government's programming statements, the Prime Minister wanted to be optimistic. He even told us about returning to positive growth in the first half of 2016. At the same time, if someone reads the preliminary draft state budget, a text revealing the responsibilities of economic collapse in the previous seven months, they will see that there is talk of recession in 2015 and 2016. Absolute irrationality, absolute unreliability. We also heard the Deputy Minister for Finance, Mr Alexiadis, telling us that 'we are not happy about these provisions we bring'. "We have to, the Prime Minister has explained it in the best way," said Alexiadis. And then they are also calling for the responsibilities for their implementation. But what responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the government? The responsibility for keeping the country within the European family? The responsibility to avoid Grexit? That was our responsibility, we took it in full. So soon, did you forget that, too? But now you also need to assume your responsibilities, your responsibility for the country's recession, the downsizing of the real economy, the capital controls in the banks, the downsizing of the Greeks' incomes. You want us, you're supposed to be, mermaids, and at the same time you want us to be cursed. Both of you can't do it together. Obviously, you have not learned anything from the tragic mistakes of the previous period and this is extremely dangerous. Your past and your present does not, unfortunately, promote anything good for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to go into details of how you brought this bill into consultation. Colleagues have already talked in detail about this. Just let me have a word. You have not respected the principle of consultation because, obviously, this is not taken seriously by your Government, and this is a very bad principle for a very bad bill, a bill that imposes new tax burdens on already overtaxed property owners. The tax on real estate is still applicable, without the necessary adjustment to the real value of real estate. It hits tourism, as ENVY is required not only in the rented rooms but also in the accommodation areas of the hotel. Greater proportional burdens are imposed on lower incomes and even retroactively. Even unrealistic rents are taxed. Finally, what do you do with the hundred doses? The easiest dismissal of debtors from the instalment arrangement annuls a measure which it had actually brought to the public authorities and primarily facilitated debtors to regulate their debts. We are opposed and say "no" to anything that adds extra burdens to the already burdened Greeks who suffocate and whose tax capacity has been zeroed. We must, however, be positive in provisions that rationalise the way in which tax evasion is treated effectively, but it is enough to be effective, as well as in provisions concerning the issues of migration and structural reform. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict introduces the country into a recession tunnel with an unknown end and an even more unknown route. This multi-brand plan is a hard plan to raise EUR 4 billion from our already doomed economy: EUR 3 billion from taxes and EUR 1 billion from pension cuts. This is the outcome of eight months of left-wing governance. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] It is a bill that gives the company an excellent shot with the increases in tax rates, pensioners with the horizontal reductions in pensions and all citizens, taking account of particularly heavy indirect taxes with the increase in VAT. We are voting against the recession, we are voting against the irresponsibility, we are voting against the fictional promises you have made with the sole aim of implementing the Greek people's vote. We vote against what creates a new dead end, adds misery and new burdens to Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Cavalellas has the floor for two minutes because he's lost his turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u428	I won't say much, because I want to create a sense of what I'm going to say, because if I say a lot, I'm gonna get tired. This is my first speech and I hope you will forgive me for the mistakes that may be made. So what I want to say comes from personal experience. This morning I was in Tavros, in an area where there were and there are still a number of craft industries. I got into a craftsman in there, and I saw things unmistakable. "What are you doing? Fine. Dad? Bulgaria. Are you going to Bulgaria? Of course, like the lower one, but the following one shut it down because he was big." So he expects the Greek State to collect from somewhere, from a "giggle" - without the word being abusive, I am simply referring to transport. It is therefore expected from the private economy to collect and pay. They're also waiting for the funds. We have adopted special measures for shipping, a special tax system, because it is a ship and can go to a flag of opportunity. But the craft industry, the industry, is also a ship, and it is easier to transport a craft industry abroad. What I want to say again is to pay attention to domestic production, because domestic production is a key wheel of the car. Of those I've met lately, craftsmen, etc. Others are thinking about Turkey, others about Bulgaria, others about shutting down their operations. Please give at least the new businesses at least a chance to stand, because first we must sow and then reap. Thank you very much for the noble concession of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u429	Thank you very much. Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u430	Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are starting to discuss and vote for the measures needed to implement our recent agreement with lenders. Nowadays, in conditions of humanitarian crisis and poorer social strata, the Left from the position of the government is more than ever necessary, more than ever useful to the world of work, to the weak, the unemployed, the young, the low-paid, the low-retired, the social groups that really need it. These social groups are expressing themselves in these social groups. The needs of these groups determine what I want and what we need, Mrs Vultursis. We respond to these forces: we must try and eventually, yes, we will meet your expectations of a sustainable and socially fair way out of the crisis. We will try and finally, yes, we will respond to the expectations of society by ensuring a plan guaranteeing the country's reconstruction at a productive, social, administrative and institutional level. We must try and finally, yes, we will respond to society's expectations of implementing progressive measures, implementing social measures, implementing measures that will leave a left footprint at this place. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that we are under commemorative conditions, there are possibilities for such intervention. And not just that. We are barely in a memorial situation, because it is precisely because our homeland and people are with the siege on the bone and the leash on the neck, which is why we have to develop such actions, we have to have such an intervention. In the tax system for the application of measures in the area of tax justice, putting an end to the conservative policy of social analgesia at last. Intervention into the public health system, opening the streets for its reorganisation and putting an end to the conservative political choice of its shrinkage. Intervention in the protection of workers' rights, putting an end to the political choice of abolishing collective agreements and dismantling of all measures to protect workers in that country. Intervention with institutional changes to deal with corruption, the interlocutory and the clientele system, putting an end to the rotten political system that supported and supported the most sickest, the most corrupt, the dirty thing the modern political history of this place has to show. It is precisely these measures that the New Democracy is voting against. The New Democracy says it will vote against any subordinate measure. The truth is that the tragicity of the country and the dramatic situation of our people does not allow me to smile at this hearing. In any case, when the New Democracy says that it will vote against any existing measure, it means that it will vote against any measure left-handed. That's her position and she doesn't surprise us. As much as they try to blur water with positions of the "we've had memorials, bring you a memorandum", "measures we took, measures you take too", "vote 'yes in Europe", take the agreement and wash it up. We did not want such an agreement", however they are trying to blur the waters, and I repeat, our proposals, our positions, the vision of the Left for the Greek society is in a diverse direction from the proposals, positions and vision of the New Democracy. That is precisely what is expressed, expressed and will also be expressed in the votes. It was expressed in the vote on the government's programme statements, it is expressed in the vote on these measures which we are debating and we will decide tomorrow evening. Mrs. Buddhism took it and a little retrospectively. It was also expressed for August. We didn't vote, he says, the deal. Some other spokesmen of the New Democracy also expressed themselves for the future by saying "and we will vote against the other bills you will bring", before they see them. Ladies and gentlemen, the positions and proposals of all of us are subject to the judgment of our people. In this crisis, the positions of all parties will be placed in this crisis. In my opinion - and I refer to the other parties, to the other political forces - I believe that you should stand on the basis of the interests of our people. On this basis, judge our proposals. Of course, in order to do so, you need to get rid of the circumstances, you need to go beyond the narrow party limits, which are, therefore, micropolitical limits, on which position you are taking. I cannot explain it otherwise, except as a narrow party position, regardless of its wrapping, when Mr. Theocharis calls us liars, constantly, consciously, unconscious, etc. He repeats it many times when he takes the floor, and he believes that we lie to the Greek people. Irrespective of how they dress it - Mr Fotilis said so a moment ago,'refugee the major government majorities' - what other than a small-party position is the fact that, because they are not in the government for this reason and are voting against? The Democratic PASOK - DIMAR by Mrs Christophilopoulou's mouth expressed the same thing that "you as the first force are taking the last party to cooperate. Hey, take the government and wash it! We shall vote against all the measures, regardless - as I have said - from the wrapping which is being built here by the various speakers of the respective political forces. In fact, a previous speaker from Potami and the recent decision of the Central Committee of SYRIZA was mentioned. It is well known to place a few seconds of Mr Theodorakis here - I was not in the House at the time, watching it on television - 'do not dare come back without an agreement'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I, ladies and gentlemen, accept this position when they discuss two sides and you speak to one by saying 'do not dare return without an agreement', but only in this way can I understand it, I do not understand it any differently - not as colourless, obscene and impeccable position of one who wants an agreement, but as a political position that has a colour, taste and odor, of the opposing camp. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we, with the guide of dignity, solidarity and justice, believe that the constant struggle of the government, the constant struggle of society and the ties of our government and society, are the prerequisites and at the same time the guarantee that this enormous effort to free our country from the monumental commitments, this titanic effort to correct the Greek economy will be a success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u431	Madam President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u432	What process? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u433	Madam President, I am sorry, but I wanted to say this: because I see that in the order of the list there are too many speakers from the same party, that is, there are seven - eight from the New Democracy, three - four from the SYRIZA and it goes on to say, could we better take it alternately, so that there can also be a representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u434	It's almost the first time that we've been written, and you're ruining it for us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u435	No, talk, but talk alternately, listening to the arguments on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u436	Look, according to the Rules of Procedure, after six, the first six. Now, we don't even know whether all the New Democracy colleagues are here if they want to talk. I don't know, that's a question we can regulate here. Does anyone from New Democracy want to speak now in the position of Mr Karayannis, who is next to take the floor? But I would suggest, so as not to get confused, that we leave it as it is. Mr. Karayannis, you have the floor, and then he will speak with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u437	Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that this bill does not introduce new legislation, but implements the prerequisites which are clearly required in terms of content and timetable. In the case of the United Kingdom, the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 4336/2015, namely the Agreement with the Institutions, are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be interpreted as meaning that they are to be It is at least hypocritical that the dissidents in the Multi-project have been opposed once they have voted for the agreement. They do not recognise positive and self-evident reforms and by strengthening the institutional arsenal against tax evasion, smuggling and corruption. The main changes made to the tax draft are: firstly, rationalisation of fines aimed at increasing collection; secondly, strengthening the institutional framework for tax evasion; thirdly, the Code of Tax Procedure. With regard to the rationalisation of fines, fines shall be reduced for incorrect submission of declarations of income, VAT and withholding, where it is found that the tax resulting from the tax declaration is lower than the tax established by the audit. It is also possible to subject the new provisions even pending cases to infringements of previous years before 31/12/2013, by paying a single amount provided on a case-by-case basis. The big issue of tax evasion is stricter than the legal framework and greater sanctions are imposed on the professionally-occupied ones. The interests of the public are thus guaranteed, fines are streamlined and the conditions are created for a tax conscience necessary and necessary to pursue a social policy and strengthen the welfare state. Under the Code of Tax Procedure, statements can be made after the start of the audit and not until the audit order is issued. This draft law also contains necessary adaptation measures under the agreement, which can be creatively integrated into the broader strategic planning for the rationalisation of the State and the budgets. In conclusion, I would like to comment on the hypocritical and irresponsible attitude of Responsibility with the saying of Churchill: 'Honesty is the best policy'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u438	Mr Alexiadis has the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a new Minister, I felt the responsibility of being as long as I could - and I think I was more than anyone else - in the Chamber and I had an obligation to answer all the questions - I was absent for a formal meeting that was held by a delegation from another state - although I thought that the questions discussed in the committees would have answered the questions and given a strong explanation of the criticism that was heard. I am learning - and I learn with rapid training - that many things need to be said and said again and said again, because some people have lost continuity, whether they think they should say something either that has been answered or not. I would like to make it clear, therefore, that the bill only concerns prerequisites, it is not the overall tax reform, it is not the overall changes in the tax issues that the government is working on and will bring about. It is the implementation of this agreement and we will say below why. And because the government was accused of both the procedure and so on: yes, we did not have 10 days' consultation, but we had been consulted in the House, without party disciplines and without imposing all this procedure, as those who have forgotten very quickly what we have lived here over the past few years. So we had a normal procedure. Forty bodies were called and some didn't even come, they offered them parties and they didn't even come to talk. We have made changes and we will make changes, because we are not afraid of dialogue and democracy. I will not waste any more time, because in the Committee on Economic Affairs I have clearly explained the whole of the bill and what it contains. I will only dwell on a number of points that can get out of his clothes any reasonable and intelligent man, especially those who have an elementary concern with the issues of Tax Law. HISBIA: We are listening to and again reviewing, to which we have responded, for the famous five-euro, for the analgesia of the government, for what it does, etc. Firstly, the former scheme did not give up a single euro. All those who say ‘Why does the government bring this provision?’ They forget that in the former regime, the law passed by the New Democracy and the PASOK, nothing was given. If it was up to five euros the ENPI that came out, was transferred to the next year. What's going on now? Read page 2 of the explanatory statement, Article 2(1). There have been tons of paper in photocopies and they share - where is our ecological conscience in here? - and I'm afraid some people don't read them. This is clearly stated in the rapporteur's report: "For reasons of computerization this process is stopped, and if HISPIA is a euro, it is given". Are you accusing us of analgesia, you who did not give up a minute of HNPH and who you also imposed, and you come here to say what the government is doing on this matter? Secondly, in relation to hotel buildings and rented rooms, this is the end of hypocrisy. What you're complaining about has never been the case. In the 2014 HPAI, what you blame the government for, you had it inside and these businesses were charged. What does the government do, for those who have sensitivity and voice and protest? We voted for the agreement. And if we don't implement the agreement, if we don't bring the prerequisites, if we don't proceed with the assessment, the recapitalisation of the banks, we didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u440	Who's blocking you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u441	Mr. Kegeroglu, I have respected your holidays in the programming statements. Please do very much if you have something to say to go out and say it here. This practice of cries and holidays offends you, not me. I'll answer everything, but keep your cool, because I want you to interrupt me to tell me about the Lagard list, because that's why you didn't say anything. I'll come to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u442	We're cool. Cold-blooded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u443	As far as the issues of ENPIA were concerned, what happened last year. It doesn't change anything. Why did we bring the order? Because to n. 4336 on page 963 a provision was passed by two or two Members who abolished this discharge. So we come now and say that this discharge that is abolished applies from 1-1, because HNVIA is always counted on 1-1. Anyone who has basic knowledge of accounting, taxation, etc. understands that the government does not change anything. It arranges for what was voted on by Mr von Wogau. See page 4336 on page 963 in paragraph C in section d3. It doesn't change anything else. This bill does not enter a new tax, we do not increase ENPIA. This draft law stipulates that the abolition of the exemption, adopted by 4336, applies from 1-1. I mean, there was an ETUCA they paid for 2014. In December 2014, these companies were exempted. With 4336 all of us here, two hundred and twenty-two MPs, except those who chose to take a taxi and solve their problems, we have all voted on something and we are going to implement this. And you're criticising us because we're implementing this thing! As far as the fines are concerned, we have brought them in. We'll bring for the hundred doses. I think the table submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs also convinces the most skeptical of what we want to do in this regard. We want to do nothing more than rationalise these fines and enable businesses that have problems solving them. The other solution is what? Let cases run into limitations or leave businesses locked in tax procedures. I said an example, the virtuals, which are afflicting hundreds of businesses in Thessaloniki. That's what we're doing here. So here you decide why the government hears two criticisms. One criticism is that we are burdening businesses and the other is that we are reducing companies. One criticism is that we are helping tax evasion and the other is that we are making tax evasion more stringent. Decide what your line will be. We understand the confusion. A hundred doses. Another irrationality! And we hear criticism here, first of all, of why we brought the provision for the hundred doses. I responded in detail twice to the Committee on Economic Affairs. I do not have to read the same paragraph again. On page 1017 of the Verbatim Report of Proceedings of the Court of First Instance 4336, in the middle of the right-hand column, in case B what we do with the 100 doses is analysed. What has been voted on here is a specific provision to go ahead. This was in the prerequisites, it was voted on the agreement that needs to be implemented, and we do nothing but bring it into practice, because we have explained what the continuity is in this story. In relation to the hundred doses, then, what is being done is very clear. They don't lose setting. Where he was three months old, it's been a month. And as on all other issues, the negotiations on this issue will continue, yesterday and today, and will continue in the rest of the day. We have been accused of many things - I will only say the last - such as protection of tax evasion, protection of tax fugitives, etc. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, I would like two more minutes to be able to finish. There are too many issues in the bill. In the category we have heard about the protection of taxpayers and virtuals, etc., I would like to answer that we are not just creating these issues, but are trying to find solutions to unblock business and mechanisms. But there is a lot of criticism about the government. Two, I think, are the main political features that came out of the House yesterday and today. First of all, there is a criticism of the government, which is not actually addressed to the government. It is a criticism that is addressed to the people for their vote. But make up your mind. The elections have been held. The people on the criticism you made of the government took a stand on it. By repeating the same criticism to the government alone. The second basic argument. We analysed, proved, documented that the agreement was a political necessity for us, with specific content. You, as you have done too many times, said that this is your political choice. In fact, there was a party rapporteur here who said 'we did well and we followed this policy'. In other words, the policy of austerity, redundancies, tax barbarity, overtaxation was a political option. It is a political necessity for us to say so clearly. We are not happy with this policy. We are forced and implemented, because that is how we need to take the country two steps further. And we explained it. But in questions from the New Democracy, PASOK and Potami, and in the accusation that the Left lost her soul, mercy! When we really take such criticism that we lost our soul, of those who brought the country here and defend it yesterday, they want to repeat yesterday, then we are sure that we are on the right track. I close my speech with a reference to a subject that has taken many dimensions. Some believe that citizens have no memory and that citizens cannot read the Minutes of the House or hear what we are talking about. In the programming statements, the Government clearly said so and I said it in my speech: "We are introducing direct legislation to extend the limitation of tax cases to 31-12-2015, especially for the large cases of tax evasion and for those of serious content that have already been issued control orders or public prosecutor orders or will be issued until 31-12-2015". We've opened the whole thing. We raised this issue and said that a solution would be found. And to those who fight for what will happen and pressure the government, I would say not to fight. That's the end of this story and the order will come. But to those who come here and blame the government, because I have heard many speakers from the PASOK area and from the New Democracy blaming us - I have missed you for a little while - I want to say this: did you mention anything about what happened that two years ago that the Lagard list was lost, and what were you then doing when you took over the Treasury to date? That's what we're waiting for. We give to all the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u444	Mr George Diaras has the floor and Mr Socrates Famelos will follow. Then he'll take the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u445	Ladies and gentlemen, in a very difficult situation for our country, so that the banking system does not collapse, so that it does not panic and close down operations, so that we do not have more impoverishment, we have voted for the third memorandum. After consulting the political leaders, the Members of the four parties voted for this programme. The voices heard today by the Opposition in the House and on TV channels that "will not vote for the prerequisites, because they bring taxes or reduce pensions" hide logical contradictions and hypocrisy. What would the Memorandum you voted for and we voted for? Didn't we know what he's bringing? Didn't you say the insurance can't take it? Didn't you call about the absurdity of early pensions and single daughters? In the tragic situation that you have brought the economy and society out, how will the state's accounts come out without an increase in taxes or a reduction in pensions, or both on a fair and measure basis? What will happen to a civil servant if he works three or five years for the public and offers services paid with one wage? Why would he leave at fifty or two or fifty-five? Let's think about the unemployed building - I, as an engineer, know very well what these skilled people are doing, who know their jobs perfectly, and now they're in unemployment - let's think about the iron, cooperator, builder who's unemployed and has zero income, the oxy-adhesive, who can't collect the signals to retire. The New Democracy and PASOK parties have dismantled the economy and brought the country into the difficult economic situation. SYRIZA is indeed exposed to the promises in the pre-election period of January and the statements after the former Minister of Demetris Hillis that pensions will not be affected, neither the high nor the penthouses. The Prime Minister admitted our mistakes, we made self-criticism, but we didn't give up. And with the permission of the Greek people, it is us now to manage the difficult ones. The questions are: Is there a way to stand the insurance system without changes to early pensions, without reductions in large pensions? No, ladies and gentlemen, there is no other way. The insurance in Greece costs 16.2% of gross national product. The average in Europe is 11.8% of GDP. The state of the economy cannot sustain such a costly system without changes. In fact, changes and reductions will be made, but fair reductions. We will not be able to avoid that. However, it is a fair way not to hurt a single euro in small pensions, but to hurt only the large pensions that people will be able to continue, to live with even a reduction. I just wanted to say two words about the Lagard list. I asked the relevant ministers - first of all I asked them - to bring a law to prevent the deletion of the Lagard list and the other lists. Then New Democracy and PASOK raised the issue and strongly criticised it. But, if we're honest, it's self-criticism, because they once hid the list or falsified the evidence. But there's still a matter for me. The placement of the Minister of Justice has remained questionable as to whether it is possible in the context of the Criminal Code to extend the non-registration. I have a question mark from this position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u446	Expansion?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u447	In other words, no limitations should be made in the context of the Criminal Code. I mean, if we don't change something, there's going to be limitations. But we here are Parliament, and we must soon find the way in which there is no limitation. By special law or even by modifying the Criminal Code, not a year has been said - because we will not finish then, we will not change the system as quickly as possible - but perhaps three years so that we can get time. We don't even have any revolution, ladies and gentlemen, if we change a law to get out of these lists. Because only the Greek people will appreciate our efforts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u448	Another is the limitation of the state's claim, and another is the limitation of the criminal offence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u449	All right, Mr. Comrade. I have a serious reservation on the provision allowing for a supplementary declaration to be made, i.e. an amendment to the taxpayer during the check or after the check. I think that this is where the chances of corruption are growing. If there's any chance here, they're getting bigger. We must listen here to the voice of counterpopulation and be corrected. There have been many improvements and I think that can be done. For a fair distribution of burdens, for the progressiveity of rates, I have also spoken to the committees. I have talked about redistributing wealth in favour of the weak, which is the basic principle of the Left. This principle is never implemented by horizontal reductions in pensions, nor by the same rates of taxation. We want escalating rates. There is therefore a need for a gradual increase in rates so that the weaker ones can pay lower percentages and the richer percentages. I object to the fact that early retirement, with the bill, is a horizontal reduction of 10%, both in small and large. I think there should also be escalation here. We have the limitations in the memorandum, which unfortunately also have neoliberal commitments. We must in every way make society fair, protect the environment and take steps to find work for the unemployed. This is the biggest problem in society today, to apply the principles of the Left and the ecology to limit luxury and polluting consumption, but also to change individual behaviour outside the model of deprivation by having and consuming it, out of the logic of neoliberalism, multinationals and monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr. Deiaras. Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, with today's bill, we are opening the door to the first assessment. Through this process, the country is freed from the issues of bank recapitalisation, the negotiation of red loans, the disbursement of the funds for outstanding liabilities to a considerable extent to stimulate the market and the launching of a debt debate. At the same time, I think it is clear that this government has been able in a very short time to escape from any lack of stability and from weakness after the elections and to lead the country towards its real reconstruction and recovery. However, because we have been living in the Committees in this House and within this House a theater of absurdity, where the opposition is trying to present the white black and is trying, subjecting to its party subjectivity, to ignore the popular and national necessity, I think we need to restore logic and clarify some things. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today just the law implementing the August 2015 agreement. There is no new legislation, and whoever refers to it is simply misleading society and lying. I think that many colleagues today have simply come out indisputable, and that was evident from the last speeches by colleagues, because you referred to issues that the ministers have already taken behind the bill. It seems to me that some have been writing speeches for a month and they have just come here to recite them to satisfy their election audience in the province. But here we produce politics to support the country, we do not come to perform and perform. That is why you will allow me to present at the end of my speech the financial facility contract, which the rapporteur and many speakers from the opposition have not read and to refer to the specific data that were voted on in August 2015 and have probably been forgotten. Because this government's diversity is that politics takes place in front of the citizen, it is not at Brussels or the Cannes closed offices, because you like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u452	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u453	It was all written there!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u455	Preparatory. Others write?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u456	You are not entitled to accuse us of changing our proposals or our commitments, because it was the only government to have an agreement and bring it to the vote. Neither George Papandreou, nor Antonis Samaras dared to make an agreement and bring it to the Greek people to judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u457	Didn't they pass through the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u458	The only government that appealed to the Greek people and asked the citizens to take a stand on an agreement that had compromises, but it was honest, was the government of Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA with the Independent Greeks. And the only party that electionally tabled a clear four-year programme was SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u459	And he came to English.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u460	Why did you not have the possibility - and this seems through the process of internalisation that is taking place - to put forward a political speech with a proposal for Greece, because quite simply the political leadership within society has it and the Left expresses it. Unfortunately, we are living from opposition - and I am referring to the whole - a period of lack of political responsibility and, in cooperation with the systemic media, they have been engaged in a storm of disinformation and populism in recent weeks. Perhaps it is due to the announcement of the bill on the frequencies that come next week in the House. Perhaps it is due to the agony and controversy of the barons in unruly 'French'. Perhaps it is due to the repeated criminal persecutions and also to the condoms of all the champions of the scandals of recent periods in our country. But we need to make a few things clear for our country. We did not bring Greece into this situation. The Greek people have known very well who has been responsible for political exercise in recent years in our country. He knows it because he charged it in the last elections and knows very well why he entrusted SYRIZA with saving the country, the citizens decided it, and we have taken this responsibility. Second place. We are not giving anyone the "no" of Greek citizens in the referendum, because this "no" has enabled us to make a dynamic negotiation and win things that you have never been able to claim abroad. We are also not giving you any of our own initiatives. Because if you wanted it to be yours, both the humanitarian crisis program and the hundred doses and any other means that we legislated to do in your own period. And the question is very simple. Why didn't you dare do it? Because you didn't want to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u461	We've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u462	You are not entitled, therefore, to share on policies that the Left has chosen as a pioneer in this society to change and create a new future for the people of this country. Third place. We do not regret unilateral actions because these unilateral actions have contributed to a national effort and I confirmed during the negotiation the determination and the will of the government to change the country's agenda. They demonstrated the independence of Greek politics. We did not make written political decisions from Brussels. At the same time, they have demonstrated our commitment to democracy, to our place and, of course, they have benefited an important part of the Greek people. Box four. We won things in the negotiation you never thought they could come to our country. We won things in the negotiation they all had a philosophical sign. We have won 20 billion in surpluses, we have won European law, debt restructuring, social policy, the transfer of short-term debt, the extension of farmers' taxation, the non-privateisation of PPC, collective agreements, collective redundancies, redundancies, public property. You guys with the success story and the Zappe and the fucking twats what you've earned over the past few years? We are implementing this agreement. We are implementing an agreement which we know has real measures. We know that it has an impact on citizens, but it is a class choice for the benefit of society, because any other solution and your own and the exit to the drachma are solutions which would have a significant impact on the majority of society, on citizens, on the unemployed, on young people, on workers and on entrepreneurs. And we are implementing a parallel programme, which does not only concern corruption and complexity that you have allowed, but also solves tax evasion problems and from this bill, widens the tax base - which you have not done - because in recent years, both within and under the agreement, we have imposed taxes on fruits and on tankers' capacity and on television advertising. Why didn't you dare do that? Was it your political choice or your directions? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. I'll be done. But we have dared to make a policy which can change Europe as well. Let us not endure and bow down to a conservative and anti-democratic neoliberalism. To pull off the sleeve, if you like, and social democracy, to create a new progressive debate in Europe. Because we don't close lists in ministerial offices. We are not the bad students in Europe who are kicking us out of the summits, because we have failed. You must choose: Will you be with Greece, with society, with progress, or will you be with Verber of the European People's Party, who is an enemy of our country? Why it is not fair to give us up for an agreement at all costs, to press and terrorize the people together with the media to vote 'yes', to vote for the agreement and then say 'now we have no responsibility'. You've practically no courage. You have no political courage to support this country. However, the Left has taken this responsibility and will bring it to an end because we are not looking to you. You invited us, your colleague invited us not to look to you at the time of the vote, obviously because you were looking to us if we could afford to save the country because you could not. But we have endured and looked forward and look towards the people. And we call on the ministers in this reform effort, in this effort to reconstruct and support our country, not to back off. We have a great deal of responsibility for the citizens, and that responsibility will be brought to fruition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u463	The Minister for Labour has the floor, Mr Katrugalos, for ten minutes. The Minutes of the Court of Auditors have been distributed to you. You've all taken it so that you can take it into consideration and placement. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u464	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with a legislative improvement which, as I said earlier at the joint committee meeting, is being tabled to clarify a question of constitutionality raised in connection with the regulation of Article 10 in paragraph 24. As I said before, the regulation was intended solely to concentrate public financial resources so that they could be better exploited and the legal reserves of private banks could not be kept. Since the wording might have created an interpretation of whether the self-government and the legal persons who have autonomy and others, we would clarify by adding the words "without prejudice to the self-government legal persons" that there is still the possibility of the legal persons in terms of decisions of feasibility and is not replaced by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u465	But, in order not to abuse time and again, you will allow me to place myself on the issues of my own Ministry, issues relating to the insurance and pension system of the country. I was really surprised by many positions. For example, I have heard that we will call into question the reform that we are planning the European social model. This claim by people who should have known that we already have six convictions in the Committee on Social Rights - the Council of Europe body monitoring the European Social Charter and having its responsibility for monitoring it - precisely because the first memorandum infringed a number of its provisions - by people who should know that last week the UN Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Committee found that the austerity imposed in the country over the past five years on this pact, by people who should have known the relevant UN expert report on the responsibilities of the states - lenders in their relations with the states - owers to compliance with the fundamental rules of international law, all of which, therefore, by people and responsible politicians and women are something I did not expect to see in this House. It shows, in my opinion, lack of responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u466	Like the Cyprus issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u467	Also, I heard we were told that we were doing "the eyes of the world" negotiation and that we were bringing back what the previous governments brought back: bills with translation and e-mails. I should like to tell you that, on the contrary, at the moment, the results of the six-month attempt to compare a different model to the model of economic orthodoxness of neoliberalism are beginning to be visible. We have not only received 'tsay and sympathy' from those who have seen that there is indeed an alternative to the model of ludicrous neoliberalism. I will give you two specific examples on my subject. In my visit to the Committee on Employment in the European Parliament, the President of the Commission accepted our proposal for the European Parliament to be supervised by the negotiation process for work. Because it's not a bilateral matter. The definition of good European practices in the field of employment is a matter that concerns Europe as a whole. For this very reason, the proposal to be discussed in the Committee's Coordinators' Council is to have a Standing Monitoring Committee, a Monitoring Group of the European Parliament which will see how the negotiation is progressing, precisely because we want it to be essential and precisely because we want to defend the European social model from neoliberalism. In the Council of Ministers of Labour we have supported the proposal of the Luxembourg Presidency to have a Eurogroup of Labour Ministers. And this joint presidency with the Luxembourg presidency has also found the support of the French and German Labour Ministers. Because you realise that Greece's obligations under the programme would be unreasonable as to what good working practices are or the reform of insurance are subject to the control of the finance ministers. Obviously, the Ministers for Labour should assume this institutional role of negotiating against all the peoples of Europe, the defence of a substance of the European social model. And obviously, we are the ones who have put in the last memorandum, despite the forced compromises that we have accepted, to be the ILO, the International Labour Organisation, the final arbitrator of this negotiation. And the ILO will be present with technical assistance and a great reform of insurance. Because what we are now bringing is prerequisites that have been asked to us and which have essentially dealt with issues which we voted on in the previous bill and which were dealing with individual issues in our insurance system, they are re-examined, but they are not raised by this overall reform which needs our pension system as a whole. As I have had the opportunity to say in my position in committee, most of these first first aid measures have already fulfilled their purpose. It is true that there are at least two measures, which should be reincorporated in the major November reform. One is the question of restoring pensions for uninsured overtime. There, however, it is clear that we will have to address it in the general direction of segregation of prosperous and insurance benefits, as we will do in the major reform. The other issue is the question of the choice of insurance grades for the professions, which, with an explicit provision, we have in the agreement is going to follow the level of income. Bad lies, though. These were all individual measures. The pension is not solved by emblematic measures. Because we have always had an insurance system that was fragmented and was subject to the customer practices of old-fashioned communism. It was not fair before 2010. And after 2010, not only did it get worse, because of the laws that did not really solve but were worsening its chronic problems, it also faced the acute collective problem, which was created on the one hand by the crisis and the existence of over a quarter of the labour force in unemployment without having the ability to pay its contributions, and on the other hand by the finalisation of the funds' reserves with the PSI, which was the drop that broke out of the glass of mismanagement. The insurance system in Greece is the only one that currently has no reserves. We, and here, did not want to legislate by e-mail in translation. We could strive to find equivalents to what we are asking for and which we ourselves should have anticipated. Because at the moment, the deficits of our pension system are three times as high as the adjustment we are asked for. We ourselves should have made sure that we had done so long. All the previous reforms, however, basically sent the bill to someone else. That is why we have different arrangements for insured persons before 1993, after 1993, before 2011, after 2011. We will therefore not impose new horizontal reductions. We start from the logic that every insured person should have a common and similar attitude to all the others who are in the same category as him. Similar rules will be applied. And from this new architecture of the system we are going to proceed with rationalisation. Obviously, the proposal of the committee that has been tabled today is not the government's final proposal, but it is the occasion for public debate to begin. I'm surprised in front of the size of the disinformation. As in the past circulars issued and interpreting existing 2010 legislation were attributed to us, as in the area of taxation, even a tax storm, when it comes to implementing measures that have already been voted on by the previous governments, we have even worse things: they are attributed to us unbelievable reductions. The committee and the government themselves are being put forward with incredible intentions. Even though I have said, on many occasions I have said that we will not accept any income criterion for the award of pensions, I see a continuation in vulgar newspaper titles to be proclaimed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Excuse me for overcoming. No more lies. We want a public redistributive system that cares for and protects pensions especially of low-paid layers, which has no characteristics of capitalising, which is not subject to the intentions of neoliberalism and has similar characteristics to a private insurance system. And we will be relying on a wide-ranging public debate so that in November when the comprehensive bill comes, everyone can be informed of the basic features of it and finally have the possibility of having a Greek reform that should have taken place decades ago, not because the memorandums require us to do so, but because it is a national need to change our country in a fairer direction, in a direction of social and left-hand reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u468	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u469	Madam President, I am ahead of you. I've lifted my hand beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u470	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u471	This is the issue of unconstitutionalism. I have no reason to intervene. We've been waiting since morning. Madam President, I do not know if you have been informed by your colleagues. There was a loose end solved by the Minister. Because we have objected to anti-constitutionalism under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister made an improvement and I have to reply. We lodged the objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u472	Good. You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u473	Mr President, we had a debate this morning on this and other parties were put. We have raised two issues: Article 1(3), where we were calling for an improvement on the issue of mature expectation. You insisted on it, so it's a matter. There will be a vote on this. You have also promised an improvement with regard to Article 10(12), paragraph 69a. The intervention you are doing is in a positive direction. A number of problems may remain for Article 10, which may also lead to improvements, but these concern the debate on the articles. We are only talking here about the issue of unconstitutionality. But your intervention needs further improvement. You let me know, and we talked about it, and I thought about it. It would be preferable if you accept, where you say "reserved", to say "outstanding" and to put a party at the end of your phrase and to add the rest of the phrase "indicately the Local Government Institutions, Higher Education Institutions, Insurance Funds etc", to allow the legislator tomorrow to make further improvements. I don't know if you're listening. We shall see in that sense and if you accept that - that is to say, you must be clearer - and subject to a legal technical nature, which I cannot be useful at the moment, and the other paragraphs of this article. For example, in the next paragraph 3, issues are raised which the performer will be asked to consider whether this arrangement covers the exceptions or does not cover them. So you must rethink it tomorrow for supplements, after we have completed and lifted our reservations on the issue of constitutionality, but, I say again, on condition that you make the wording even clearer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u474	May I speak, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u475	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u476	Our intention is in the same direction, I will simply make some clarifications on the Minutes, without accepting your proposal. Because if we are talking about an exception, we are going to cancel the intention of collecting these financial resources, as we want. What we are seeking to do is to concentrate these resources, the reserves, but to maintain the possibility of deciding on the issues that concern them in self-governed legal persons. I think, therefore, that since this statement is to be tabled in the Minutes, it will also be possible to interpret it if there is a different question of the real meaning of the amendment that we are amending, to give the answer to the lawmaker. It's not a matter of substance. I shall listen to your views in the written debate. I think, however, that in the wording as well as in the clarifications I have given, the matter is covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u477	Yes, but because you know, colleague, that all these matters relating to declarations here, especially the statements made by the Ministers, concern the historical interpretation of the laws assessed by the courts. Command doesn't assess it. Rarely treats her. And that's a problem, but it's like that. Since paragraph 1 has two subparagraphs, the concentration of the reserves of all general government entities in an account is regulated by the first subparagraph, it puts your legislation in perfect place. The exception therefore relates to the second subparagraph of this paragraph which regulates the competence of the Minister of Finance in a way, as it is today, depressing in relation to the powers of the institutions. So your concern is withdrawn and you can make this wording that is even clearer and that our own problems of unconstitutionality are also removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u478	Madam President, can I give you clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u479	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u480	Our intention is to achieve two things. One is to raise all the money into a fund for the financial reasons I have explained, and then the second purpose is for each institution to have the same rights as it would have if it had put the money in a forward account. That is the purpose. I think that as it is now written, there is this and I may do a circular that explains that immediately afterwards. What you said only concerns me and I may be wrong, because I do not know very well legally - I admit it - is that I do not want a wording that does not guarantee this concentration and I explain their reasons. If this wording covers you with a circular we can make later, it will explain that each entity has the same rights as it would have, that is, three days to make its money, as it would be in a forward account. That is the purpose. I'm a university student too, and you're a university student, and I don't want to make it harder for the university's work and work. I think you understand that. If that covers you, I think we should move on with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u481	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u482	No more, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u483	Finally, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u484	We are, however, in the same direction, going to insist on the objection because we are calling for a clearer wording. It is not a question that has to do with doubts and doubts about intentions. The intentions are clear, they have been recorded in the Minutes and the intentions are correct. But, in fact, we want to insist on the clarity of the arguments and the strictness of the arguments. There is no point in calling into question what the ministers say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u485	Mr. Brutsi, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u486	Yes, Madam President, as a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u487	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u488	I would like to make a few comments on what has been said - inaccurate fundamentally - by the ministers and first of all, to Mr Alexiadis, the Deputy Minister of Finance. Minister, it is challenging to relinquish the New Democracy as to whether or not it defends entrepreneurship. If you have the syndrome - which you have it - of ideological confusion about what you are doing today and say in relation to what you have said in the past, it is your problem. The New Democracy has a clear view. And you put this dilemma to us, looking at the time you were talking and trying to make confusion, because we say very simply that we support entrepreneurship because that is where wealth is produced, because that is where jobs are created, but we disagree with the reduction of fines on fakes and virtuals. We're clear. Healthy entrepreneurship is another one and other businessmen who with fakes and virtuals steal wealth and public revenues. If you're defenders of this accusation, say it publicly. However, do not confuse or trouble others with your ideological problem. Moreover, with regard to, Minister, Mr Katrugale, the fund reserves, sometimes God loves the thief, but also loves the housekeeper. In the last few days in our country - politically, at least, this is confirmed - you have spoken about the fund reserves, that you have not touched them and that we have said things about you. Article 14 of this bill, do you know what he's doing? It confirms what the New Democracy has been saying throughout this period, that you have put your hand in and "split" the reserves of the next generations, the AAA. The troika has come, Minister, and the troika has forced you to get back, to undo what you have done, to break the money of the next generation. That's why you must be very careful when you talk. By the way, in the face of you all, I sincerely expected you to be here today, beyond the theories of your position and these continuing left-hand fairy tales, to put you in fact and say about the Katrugalou Commission today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. And not the Committee of Wise Men. It is not a committee, which we have agreed intergrouply. It's a committee where Mr. Katrugalos has been appointed personal. The guidelines in committee, the objectives in committee, you have given them. I don't know what kind of organogram this committee has taken, and within a month he found out how to make the insurance sustainable. You have practically given one direction. You gave the committee one direction: "Find a pension reduction mechanism to save financially the 1.8 billion signed by SYRIZA." That's what you did. I sincerely expected you to come here today and say that "we will reduce pensions, because that is what is foreseen". You're not telling the truth. You continue to mislead the Greek people, and you do it with journalists, who write about pension reductions. Let's get this straight. The committee, set up at the Ministry of Labour, set up a month ago and operated with people appointed by the Minister of Labour, had only one objective to reduce pensions. It is the well-known communication emblem, a cloak under which, in order not to take the first wave of social reaction, SYRIZA, the government and Mr. Katrugalos, is trying to take responsibility elsewhere. You won't avoid them. You're here. You also made 2% cuts horizontal to small pensions. You've reduced low pensions by a capitalizing system. You are the first Minister and the first government - I said it in my speech - that changes the philosophy of social security in our country. Say it. This is the first time in the history of insurance. You have reduced the subsidiary and the 6% that you have reduced, Minister, to know in order to reach agreement, you have essentially applied a clause of zero deficit in the first phase, the budget of which was 4.5%. You have reduced it by 6% and now you will come and make another reduction. In any case, because the moments we are living are critical and the world is fighting out - and the pensioners and the unemployed and the workers - and they do not see by the government a stable course, it is good to say the truth quickly, what you intend to do. Do not put all Greek families in agony and the entire Greek population, because you must do that soon, because you cannot avoid it. The lies are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u489	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u490	It can't be done. You should also speak to the MPs. It can't be, Madam President. You'll all talk to each other later, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u491	They'll all talk, sir. Don't be angry. Mr Pafilis, Mr Cassidyris, have been asked for the floor. Do you want to hear more, Mr. Catrugale, and respond once and for all, in other words wait for the others? Don't complain, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u492	If there are indeed parliamentary representatives who want to speak on my subject, I would be happy to wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u493	All Parliamentary Representatives should speak in their turn and answer them all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u494	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u495	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u496	Mr. Cassidy, since you've asked for the floor first, here you are, you have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u497	This is clearly unconstitutional. The unconstitutionality lies not only in terminology, in the phrases that the Minister uses here. We can't change a word, as PASOK says, and automatically become the draft Constitutional Act. We have said directly from the outset that since the Memorandum of Understanding was voted against in the referendum by the Greek people, any decision, any legislative initiative opposed to this decision by the Greek people, is manifestly unconstitutional. In particular here with regard to this single account, to which the law refers, there was no single account, but you have seen that SYRIZA was again committed a few months ago, literally confiscated the funds of the Local Government bodies to pay illegally interest-free payments to creditors. All these actions are unconstitutional, and we are not concerned with what the Minister will use. In this case, we are talking about hostility in our country either with all these single accounts or the famous EUR 50 billion fund. Therefore, the multi-legislative project is as a whole unconstitutional. That is why we are voting against and condemning it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u498	Mr. Paphie, did you ask to speak for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u499	Just a minute, Madam President, to answer Mr Katrugalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u500	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u501	I wonder. After all that the Greek people have seen, after the European Union's attitude, after everything that has happened, you come here today and tell him what? That the one who dragged him into the massacre will guarantee that he will go better. To speak more practically, for people to understand, you say 'big success that Parliament is getting'. Do you know what the European Parliament has voted on, Mr Catrugale? The 'White Bible', the one that began to erupt all labour conquests. He has voted for the Green Paper with a 'white' coalition at the time. What does the Green Bible say? It abolishes collective agreements. I've been through it before. Yes or no? Does he break them or not? So you put the wolf on guarding the sheep. What do you say to the world today? Are you telling him that this European Union today, which is taking over all the people, will guarantee Greece's insurance system more competitive? Are you serious? Another thing is to say that that's the way things are and we can't do otherwise and we're pleading subjection and making the tentacles in front of capitalist barbarism. Because that's what you're doing. And it is still another day - this is the service you are offering, and against the labour movement you have huge responsibilities, and I do not mean only personally, I mean politically in total - to tell him now when he goes to the massacre - since you see what the whole direction of the European Union is - 'we and the German Labour Ministers'. Are you serious? 'French'? With 50 billion social expenditure cuts? All those who have imposed and co-signed all the memoranda you have complained about, who have implemented all this policy or most of it in all the countries of the European Union will bring us tomorrow and will help us to have a better insurance system. That's a big lie! That's a big delusion. It's like what you said that Europe is changing. Of course, it's changing! It becomes worse, hostile, more aggressive to the peoples, more aggressive to workers and no other solution exists from the overall overthrow. Not to invite people to submit to this barbarity that lives today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u502	We're still on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u503	Madam President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u504	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Catrugale, come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u505	Thank you. I'll try to talk no more than a minute. Mr. Paphie, you're right, I said so. The dominant ideology in the European Union - since Maastricht at least - is neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u506	Forever! What's neoliberalism? Isn't it capitalism?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u507	But when we talk about the European social model, we are talking about this system which is capitalism, but because of workers' struggles, because of the adversarial aptitude recommended by the existence of the Soviet Union, it has led to a system of market regulation that is subject to social rights and individual and labour law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u508	He remembers the JRC now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u509	That is what'slows' light neoliberalism, that is what we are defending. And we have said that we want to stay in Europe, precisely because we want to change it. We do not like neoliberal Europe, we want social Europe. Mr Brutsis, obviously we say the left, as you said, because we are left and as we respect your right-wing identity, so we have a different identity with a different social sign. Let me tell you that the Sages Committee that you thought was manipulated by me includes the chairman of the Sages Committee who arrived at the 2010 reform. It included the Commander of IKA in the government of Simitis. It includes all, but all, first grade teachers under social security law. The others were all supreme judges. I think it is an indirect attack on their faces - not mine - to question their objectivity. Know that anyone who wants to make reform must respect three conditions: technocratic adequacy, public dialogue and political will. I fear that none of the three previous reforms existed. That's exactly what we want to bring into ours. As far as the GFCM is concerned, you are well aware - because you are also committed to these matters - that we have not affected the basic account of the GFCF, which is intended to remain as the piggyback of genealogical justice, but its sub-accounts which have exactly that character, to ensure temporary liquidity in the event of problems of the insurance funds. Especially as regards insurance, I would like to call on all the sides of this House, precisely because this is a national issue, of course, with respect for the separate political identity which each of us has. I do not expect you to have the same sensitivity to redistributive justice issues as what we have. But in the short time that we have, we need to use the possibilities that this finding gives us as a start-up dialogue, to end up in something that suits the Greek people and has an interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u510	Obviously, Minister, you do not adopt the conclusion of the Committee on Wise Men.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u511	Of course. It is a basis for public debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u512	Say that. Why don't you tell us that they're good scientists and good wise ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u513	But I said again that the finding of any committee of wise men, Mr Colleague, is intended to be the technological basis for political dialogue. Alas, if we were to be governed by the teachers and the judges. The people rule through their representatives. However, in order to be able to have a framework of reference for public dialogue, we also need findings, such as that of the Committee of Wise Men.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u514	We continue with Mr Theocharopoulos from the Democratic Reconciliation. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u515	Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, by appreciating the critical juncture we had, due to the political and negotiating incompetence of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the ideological obsessions of the partners, we were not easily left. It was then supported, because this was what the responsibility and interest of the country imposed, the choice of a painful agreement and not the disastrous choice of exit from the Eurozone, but an agreement which your government alone negotiated ineffectively, signed and brought to the Greek Parliament. If he had not signed it and voted for it, the country would have been outside the Eurozone. Because we see today that you are giving up opposition for this vote at that time. Let us tell you again, however, that the country would be outside the Eurozone at that time if another decision had been taken. Today, however, we come here and discuss the specific prerequisites.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u516	If it is not voted tomorrow, what will happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u517	What if you don't vote for them now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u518	I'll tell you. So the government continues a policy today, which will again lead to the same deadlocks. We'll tell what we're voting on tomorrow, a new ground trap. You've filed a multi-billion bill with unfavourable financial burdens. The bill testifies to the absence of governmental political planning. You seem to have not understood in the government what is happening to society. The Democratic Reconciliation has repeatedly stressed that the country needs a progressive policy immediately, a policy that will be kept within the euro and, on the one hand, a new national production reconstruction plan, which is the only essential equivalent, will fairly redistribute the money produced and not the money borrowed. We have not seen such a plan for productive reconstruction, not only today, but we have not even seen it on paper yet. We see only a few measures, many of them, as we will see below, have nothing to do with the agreement. A characteristic example of the lack of strategy is tax. The country needs a comprehensive progressive tax reform, aimed at a stable and socially fair tax system. No change, however, or sign of change we have not seen until today. We have heard Mr Alexiadis, the Minister of Government, tell us that today all we do is vote on the prerequisites. And then we heard Mr Famello, on behalf of SYRIZA, telling us that today we are extending the tax base. How do we broaden the tax base, ladies and gentlemen? Does he mean taxing between EUR 1 and EUR 5 for HIS? Is that the broadening of the tax base? If that's what you mean, we disagree. We are against having the same horizontal tax measures in the same manner. By confirming our concerns, you are therefore choosing an easy solution to horizontal cuts and reductions. You are introducing horizontal measures and you are even abolishing necessary arrangements that you have implemented some time ago, the same tax and insurance mortgages. In the equilibrium pension arrangements contained in the bill, the overtaxation measures are also added, which lead to the violent poverty of the people of work. The new burdens on the ENPI are unfair and testify, beyond the budgetary objective, to a punishing attitude to the weak. As I told you, you are seeking to collect HNVO, even less than EUR 5, with a bureaucracy that costs much more to collect EUR 2 HNVO than the two euros you collect. But we should also remind you of something: you were aiming at abolishing the ENPIA, which brought EUR 2.65 billion a year, when we said that ENPI must be replaced by a fair tax system that will redistribute and tax fairly at that time. So you had the illusion that it would be completely abolished. This tax reform has not come and you have fully accepted the same ineffective as you accused him of, HICPIA. Of course, we haven't seen any change until today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u519	In twenty days?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u520	But your dispositions, ladies and gentlemen, are also established in Article 13. This provision is definitively destroying the financial rewards of the municipalities of the country, with unequivocal consequences. I want your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u521	Change that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u522	It hasn't changed, ladies and gentlemen, that. Listen. We read and cannot understand your intentions to pay fees. You have attempted and attempted to overthrow what has been signed in contracts through a bill. Who do you want to favour? Are you with the society that's tested or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u523	You didn't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u524	The Minister has come and told us that he is changing paragraph 4 of Article 13 and does not change paragraph 3 of Article 13, which refers precisely to it, in return fees in relation to what has been signed in contracts either with the GOI or with any other body. We therefore call again on the Minister to come tomorrow and to change this arrangement, which, to the worst for the people's interests, changes the existing regulation and destroys the city's reward fees. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 10 also raises, as the debate has shown, serious questions about the management of cash available in relation to the Single Treasury Account. And make two things clear here. There is another objection to anti-constitutionalism, which we have done very well - and we see, of course, that there is an initial response from the Minister, who needs more specialisation, but it is another issue of substance, in relation to this issue, because you are trying to consolidate by this regulation an exceptional measure that you have taken some months ago, when, in other words, the government took all the funds and other bodies available. And, of course, it is right to try to achieve greater interest rates, but that is another matter. The other question is to ensure, as a parliament, that the government cannot make use of it for other purposes. It must not be the finance minister who signs all matters, the opening up of accounts, the opening of accounts, the freezing of accounts. We can't go like this. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today is irreversibly affecting, once again, employees, pensioners and freelance professionals. Permissible proof is Article 21. The provisions of this article deprive you of the grant and re-evaluation of OGA pensions of just 260 euros in thousands of uninsured over-aged Greeks and expatriates. Approximately ten thousand applications have been made for this period, which has already been submitted, to come into force this month. And they are now considered unenforceable by this law, leaving themselves exposed and leading to despair, thousands of people in real need. We cannot, however, proceed in this way. We cannot be deprived of ourselves and ourselves all the time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The right of new insured persons to opt for a maximum of three lower classes of insurance is also waived. The negligence of the debts for individual insurance contributions of freelance professionals to their insurance funds is abolished. However, since the grant of an additional pension to the NAT’s principal pension beneficiaries due to an accident at work or death due to an accident at work and of all the above described, will the cost be rationalised? I don't think you believe that. The rationalisation of expenditure is a rationalisation which needs to be done at non-wage costs, with the reduction of costs, which really creates problems. Let me also turn to Article 5 on the regulation of the 100 doses you have brought, where, of course, you are now reducing the number of doses in specific cases, defining the administration, the responsible person, as the sole judge of this change. Here you must set objective criteria, specialise, so that this transaction and this passage are not created again. You are referring, ladies and gentlemen, very often to strengthening the social state. However, you have a provision in Article 18, which puts the vulnerable groups of the population at the forefront, depriving them of multiples, unemployed and young people of being moved with reduced tariffs or free of charge, if the co-legislative Ministries do not pay the price or the difference from the credit to the OSCE. Is that a social policy? Ladies and gentlemen, the government is tabling a bill containing over-taxation measures, changes in insurance, which once again affect tax and insurance mortgages. It includes, once again, horizontal measures. The government shows that it has no plan to overcome the crisis. For all these reasons, the Democratic Integration will vote against the bill in principle and will vote against all those horizontal measures that accumulate new burdens on the weakest social strata.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u525	Mr. Theocharopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u526	I'm done, Madam President. The Democratic Reconciliation will not make a sterile opposition. He will make a constructive and programmed opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u527	Mr Theoharopoulos, the vote must also take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u528	That is why we have tabled better proposals and will vote in favour of any articles that are in the right direction, such as combating tax evasion and other issues. But, in principle, it is a bill that gives no solution to the problems that the country currently has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u529	The question is whether the vote will be taken at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u530	Let us move on to the speakers, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u531	What speeches? There's been an objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u532	Then, then. At night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u533	When? What night? Now it's the objection. They answered. They've answered again. We believe that the debate has been concluded. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, you can hear me. According to what has happened since the morning, which has been repeated now, which the parliamentary representatives, and so on, have spoken, it appears that the debate on unconstitutionality has been concluded and the vote has to be opened. It's just things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u534	Now, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u535	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure on unconstitutionality has been concluded. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Responding to the objection]] Apparently, the fewer were raised. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. Now, Mr. Screkas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u536	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all what we are hearing today in this Chamber is astonished and the most prepared to hear anything. Every unstable and all reasonable in here, with what he hears from this government and from these men the ministers, he really wonders whether these things can be said. In other words, we must look at the sun that rises from the East and say, 'No, the sun does not rise from the East, but from the West.' Listen to arguments, ladies and gentlemen, put forward by the government majority, by the Members of the House, but also by the ministers of government, to defend and reason for this shameful and barbaric bill. Listen to what they said. Previously, Mr. Katrugalos said: "We, as SYRIZA, have a different identity, with a social sign. The Left has more social sensitivity than the Right". In other words, Mr Manda, you say - listen a little, I say - that SYRIZA is more sensitive than New Democracy and that is why it brings this bill. What does this bill say, Mr. Comrade? Did you read it? Because socially he is too sensitive, SYRIZA said to abolish the privileged pension to older people over sixty-seven years of age! And it is estimated that they are about thirty thousand of our fellow citizens in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u537	Did you implement this pension?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u538	No, sir. Because you want dialogue, I will tell you that we have not implemented it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u539	Besides, you abolished it. You guys had it cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u540	I would like five minutes of your time to understand what I want to tell you today. Because you need to know that for all the things that are done, you are responsible. You need to know that some people have sent you here to give solutions. These solutions cannot be given in words and rhetoric. They cannot be given with so-called ideological surpluses. Two are in particular the arguments I have heard in this Chamber that SYRIZA's colleagues should use to convince that this bill is good. These arguments had nothing to do with the bill. The first argument, which is heard by colleagues, friends and friends, is the argument about the moral advantage of SYRIZA. We hear it from the Prime Minister of the country, from the ministers, but also from Members of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, you must stop saying that. I'm going to tell you something that Machiavelli said to the "The Leader". So he said: "Any politician always proposes the advantage of morality for himself, two things happen. He is either a hypocrite or incompetent." I am afraid that in the case of SYRIZA and SYRIZA - ANEL, ladies and gentlemen, both things exist. So there is no moral advantage of SYRIZA, because reality itself is coming and it is pushing you. The reality itself comes and slaps on the face Mr. Tsipras and his government. When you see in the media and journalists' reports mention top ministers who are controlled by moral and criminal offences and nobody says anything by the government, you do not have the moral advantage, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. The second thing I can hear is that the New Democracy voted for this bill on 14 August and, therefore, after voting on it, why now does it not vote on the measures? And that's what you need to stop. We, ladies and gentlemen, did not vote for these measures, 'Measures implementing the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement'. Measures to implement the agreement have not been adopted by us. We voted on the budgetary objectives and the framework, the outline of the agreement. This is what we voted on to get on August 18, 3.5 billion euros so that 1 September you can pay salaries and pensions, which you would not have paid and we would have social ruins around us. That's what we voted on. And we have no tolerance here for these specific measures that you bring, which are measures to implement and implement this project, but with your own strategy, with your own tactics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr. Tsipras himself took over the ownership of this programme. Can I tell you what he said in the last programming statements? He said: "Although this agreement undoubtedly contains difficult points, he also also writes the resistance of the Greek people and the Greek Government". That is, this bill, that is to say, the abolition of the pensions of the elderly, that is to say, the increase in VAT on the main requirements, that is, the reduction in pensions, the reduction in agricultural pensions by EUR 10 - from EUR 310 - even this one, the lower pension, the lower pension, the agricultural sector, has been reduced - by the government's resistance! So, Minister, are you resisting? Is that how you resist? By raising VAT to the weak? By doubling the tax on farmers? By reducing - sadly - and investment in the country, having absorbed 1,5 billion less from the NSRP than we did last year and having regressed, as Mr Tsakalotos himself appreciates in your own draft budget by 2.3%? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, three things characterise a government and its contribution to the people and the place, serving the interests of the citizens. In particular, the first is credibility. Unfortunately, you are not reliable. The credibility between words and actions is a mile away. But you said, but you do. The second is efficiency. It has not gone well, ladies and gentlemen, in any area of social policy, but also in economic life. You received a 0.8% growth. The first time left handed over to the second time left remission 2.3%. You received a reduction in unemployment of two units in 2014. You deliver an increase in unemployment of 100 000 unemployed this year and fifty thousand unemployed in 2016. You received an increase in investment by about two percentage points. You hand over 16.5% of investment in 2015, your own, the previous government, the outgoing government, to this government you also brought. The third and last is the prospect. In short, if you don't change rhetoric, if you don't decide to rule to bring real solutions, which will really restart the economy, I'm afraid in the next few months they'll be all set months with "apologies" for the mistakes you'll make successively. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I do not trust this government. I don't trust the Prime Minister of this country. I do not trust this bill, which is why I do not support it at first. And I reserve myself for the articles, to see what changes you are going to make to them - some of these articles have reforms which may, perhaps, help - and vote tomorrow night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u541	Mr. Athanasios has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u542	Thank you, Madam President. Let me make a clarification, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that there has been a lot of talk about the limitations and especially about the limitations of those involved in the Lagard list, just as legal information. You should know that tax evasion, as a public claim, i.e. to impose fines, etc., is recorded at the end of 2015. But when it is a basic offence to prosecute anyone for the criminal offence of filthy money laundering, it is recorded after fifteen years. As a criminal offense! That's to keep it from confusing. Ladies and gentlemen, the American comedian Graucho Marx, who grew up in particular in the first half of the last century, has become famous for his waste. One of his most famous lines was: "These are my principles, and if you don't like them, it's okay, I've got more." It seems to me that we have been living in this country since the beginning of the year in the period of total political irrationality and hypocrisy. So this saying of the American comedian, a little different, fits glove in the case of the government, which tells us what? "These are our principles and what we have been saying to the people for so many years to vote for us. And if they don't like the troika, it doesn't matter. We will say and do completely other things." So only you can understand statements by your officials on the channels, who are basically saying: 'Ah, you have now voted on us. That we signed a memorandum, you knew it beforehand. So don't complain about anything. The people have decided.' And so, other executives come to tell us more or less "national shareholders", if we do not vote on the bill as a whole, as if the national choice made by our party in the summer to save the country can be interpreted as a "white cheque" to do whatever the government wants. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done so. From now on, you're on your own. We don't owe you anything. You must explain to the Greek people the situation you brought him within a few months. When you bring measures, we will judge what is best for the country and the people, what they have elements of reform and what we will support. However, what constitutes a tax attack on the middle class, whose tax capacity has been exhausted, not only will we vote against them, but we will also fight them. We will fight them in this House, but also in public dialogue. The bill you bring today contains little positive elements and too many negative ones. Most of all, this bill - the first of many to come - is based on your philosophy, which is that any extra revenue can only come from taxation and an increase in all kinds of contributions. Of course, under the general outcry you are forced to fold on some issues. However, I am sure that even the withdrawal of the measure of increasing the tax rates for rents will soon be found in front of us. In a short time you will bring us here even worse regulation. Clearly, this philosophy that governs your bill and your governance, which will dismantle the country's productive fabric and eliminate the middle and low strata, does not accept or support it. Now I would like to refer to a few specific issues in your bill. I will start with a provision that you spent two months ago. It's about the n. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). You said at that time: "Criminal prosecution cases are filed by the competent prosecutor. Judicial proceedings shall not be brought in respect of those infringements which have not been enforced when this Law is published. If their execution began, they shall be interrupted.’ You realise that today you are coming and dismantling this provision and reintroducing criminalisation. This demonstrates the curiosity and the study with which you have legislated. I am now going to deal with a very specific issue with which I may be tempting the non-legislative. However, this is a key issue, because it relates to the Constitution and is a precondition for combating corruption. It concerns the prudential control of the Court of Auditors, and it is a matter which I consider to be very serious. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 98 of the Constitution stipulates that the Court's competence is to control the State's expenditure and the local government bodies and other legal persons subject to a special provision of law under this regime. Under paragraph 2 of the Constitution, the powers of the Court of Auditors shall be regulated and exercised as laid down in the law. With the revision of the Constitution of 2001, this competence of the Court of Auditors was confirmed and extended, as the joint legislature was given the opportunity for the first time to exercise preventive control and the costs of legal persons under private law, as was indeed the case when it came to the preventive control of the costs of municipal businesses. I'm referring to the n. 3852/2010. Meanwhile, as early as 2003, the extension of preventive control to OTA I expenditure had begun - both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice are now absent - at the request of his own elected authorities. It is, of course, true that the constitutional powers of the court are regulated and exercised as laid down in the law in accordance with Article 98(2). But that does not mean that the joint legislator, namely us in Parliament, is entitled, by one provision, rather than the constitutional legislature, without violating the Constitution and under the pretext of their regulation, to abolish it. In this context, the Court of Auditors' plenary has previously accepted that an increase in the level of the amount of the public payment orders to which preventive control is applied is constitutionally tolerated. In December '14, it rejected the provision of Article 98 for the third time and within a period of only six months a further increase in the limit. However, in the draft law the prudential control of State expenditure is abolished from 1-1-17 and as regards OTAs from 1-1-19. In support of the constitutionality of the proposed regulation, the Government states in the explanatory statement that the case in paragraph 1 of Article 98 of the Constitution, referring to the audit of expenditure, does not only mean the check prior to disbursement of the expenditure. And I'm talking about this so Mr Chakalotos can hear about what he said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u543	But Mr. Athanasios, you're finishing up, because you really...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u544	I shall conclude, Madam President. Others spoke nine minutes. I'll be out in a minute. It means any control, which means both the one that takes precedence and the one that comes after the expenditure, i.e. repressive control. Therefore, they say the proponents of the order do not suffer from unconstitutionalism. But listen: Contrary to paragraph (c) of the article, which deals specifically with post-examination control, one can draw a conclusion from the terminology used by the Constitution, 'accounts' and'suppliers', and given that all constitutional rules contain compulsory provisions and there is no constitutional rule which is devoid of regulatory density, that is to say, unnecessary, because it merely repeats the regulation of another constitutional rule, case (a) can only be used to control expenditure before it is implemented, namely preventive control. Different interpretative version would mean that case c lacks regulatory density, because repressive control would in any event be more severe than in case a. Nor is Mr Katrugalos in the Chamber - nor is Mr Katrugalos in the House - projected that, based on the rules laid down in Article 98(2), the law laying down how the powers of the Court of Auditors will be exercised can stipulate that some of them will not be exercised and that is wrong. Because on the basis of the interpretative principle that the highest standard rule, Article 98 of the Constitution on the powers of the Court of Auditors, prevails the lowest standard rule provided by simple law. The organisational implementing law referred to in paragraph (a) of Article 98 of the Constitution shall be adopted simply to determine how and not to whether or not these powers will be exercised. Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude - the Court of Auditors has a history of an eighty-two years, as it was founded in 1833. During these years, it has become more sensitive to any criticism and has taken advantage of the conclusions of the thorough examination of the issues, which this criticism raises. As far as preventive control is concerned, if its utility in the future is missing, it remains to be taken into account in the revision of the Constitution, in accordance with Article 110 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u545	Mr. Athanasios, you have 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u546	I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u547	That's all you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u548	The abolition of preventive control is not only of dubious feasibility in terms of its economic effectiveness, but rather of putting the objective of combating corruption at risk and preventing the fragmentation of public money, and the revocation of which has proved to be extremely difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u549	Thank you. Mr. Charakopoulos has the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Harakopoulos, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the scale of the political fraud of SYRIZA begins to be revealed, with which it intercepted the Greek people's vote in the elections of 20 September. And I am not talking about the wonderful equivalents, which you were electorally saying will replace every painful measure from the memorandum you brought us, the third Memorandum of the Left bearing the signature Tsipras - Kammenos. I am talking about your shameful behaviour to vote for laws last seven months, with which you have shown supposedly social sensitivity to entire categories of population and which, before being implemented, are abolished and indeed with retroactive power. You went to the elections, pledging the hundreds of doses for red loans, with which you appeared far more hobbard than us, the favourable insurance arrangements for young engineers, lawyers and doctors. You have extended the possibility for workers in the Security Body to set up occupational insurance funds instead of being subject to the EIF. You voted before the elections to re-evaluate pensions for the ultra-aged members of the OGA and the indigenous North-East empires and Pontians of the former Soviet Union. And since you have deceived them in the elections, you are coming now and you are legislating to abolish all these provisions. Your act is a monument of political immorality. And don't hide behind the memorandum and the deal. You knew that. It was the tails of the agreement that we asked you to vote in favour of and say to the Greek people very well. I am presenting to the Practical Memorandums of Protest on the implication and deception suffered by the social groups mentioned above, the Federation of Trade and Entrepreneurship Thessaly, the President of the EBRD, the Technical Chamber of Greece, the Central and Western Thessaly, the POSSY and the "MOONOIA" which represents the Greek minority of Northern Epirus. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned statements, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Obviously all this, Mr Minister, is part of the definite moral advantage on the Left, incidents of which we expect with interest in the near future. With what is heard and with what the problematic'substantially' of Ministers - and often smoke without fire - we will certainly not be hitting the next period. Because for those until yesterday's white and undefiled invoices of everything, obviously the well-known saying for Caesar's wife is true. We're waiting. Ladies and gentlemen, the people tell us that it is time to shoot. Today it really proves that this word is of time. The former memorial preachers now appear as sober preachers of the third and pharmaceutical memorial. How many insurmountable charges have we not heard in the past? How much isotopic criticism has not been carried out for years, leading to a dangerous depreciation of the political system? Now, of course, the view from the government chairs, from the government chairs, gives a different meaning, other content. It gives a different meaning to the memorandum, to the tough measures, to the reductions in pensions, to undeclared taxes, to the blows to our weak fellow citizens. The first and second time left, although it shows permanently inadequacy of governance, nevertheless has the ability to baptize the fish meat and unregulatedly erase, with a one-twelfth of the past, the election promises, the hollow election words. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the bitter reality. Now the unveiling of government policy begins. Unfortunately, this is only the first wave of the agreement that has been reached by the proud Tsipras-Kammen negotiations. As a result, the measures for farmers, which were the first to highlight SYRIZA, despite our warnings, are being taken. Victims of opportunism and irresponsibility are the citizens themselves and above all the weakest who believed the big words. In January they believed that the Memorandums would be torn apart and that the debts and in September that there would be a parallel programme with the Memorandum. With this plan, election lies, promises, commitments without opposition, are now being dissolved as a cloud. A clearer example of hunger is not a tax that has strangled the average citizen financially and cost New Democracy as much as any other measure of previous memoranda. However, those who broke into their clothes that they would also abolish him by a law and an article, such as the memorandum, not only maintain it, but abolish those discounts that have been left in the tourism sector, the country's steam-driven development machine, with the taxation of rented rooms. As for pensions, which had become a banner for SYRIZA officials, the proposed measures will lead to dramatic reductions, which unfortunately we fear will not stop here. The recession will continue as long as the logic of tax bleeding, the maintenance of high state expenditures which have a counterproductive character, and especially as long as paleolithic strangles prevail over the private initiative, which determine the attitudes and decisions of the current government. For all the above, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy cannot agree with the philosophy of the plan and the content of most of its provisions. However, we will continue, Madam President, to make constructive criticism, in the hope that you will, ladies and gentlemen, listen to our suggestions for a turn in realism and seriousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u551	Thank you. Let me inform you that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled at the beginning of the bill by the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, which will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Keep it in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u552	Twelve o'clock in the morning? Tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u553	Tomorrow, indeed. Mr. Yakoumatos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u554	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I remember today that twenty-five years ago, I made a complaint again from this position. I said it was time - but it was twenty-five years ago, and it was the same - to do here in Greece a Upper House and a Lower House, namely a House of Lords and a House of Patriarchs and Plenipotentiaries, because since 10 o'clock in the morning ten Members have spoken. It's incomprehensible. Madam President, please tell the honourable President, Mr Voutsi, that the change in the Rules of Procedure of the House also has time for the Members of Parliament to speak. They wait until one night to speak thirty MPs out of a hundred. One of the prisoners. Mr Juliaraki, I read the European creditors and not the Americans, because the Americans are all talking, cutting billions. And this Obama couldn't cut 5 billion for the poor Elladitsa? Just to worship Uncle Sam? Let's think about it! They say, therefore, that there is an overtax of 61% in Greece. Minister, no matter how much tax you put on measures and put, at this time - and if I am mistaken, correct me - there are eight billion dues from households, from citizens to tax. Eighty billion. Twenty-five billion is in social security, a total of five and a hundred six billion - literally - are red loans, forty of entrepreneurs and sixty private ones. Mercy! There's a zero tax capacity, Minister. No matter how much tax one puts, he can't be collected. You should also put an amendment to the fact that you have to do the prison courtesy. Soon all the Greeks will go to jail. Entrepreneurs: There is no money, business is closing, taxation increases. Only from the beginning of the year, from January to August, Mr. Minister, Mr. Alexiades, I have not seen you since the beginning of the year, Mr. Alexiadis, from January to August, without a storm coming in September, is seven billion the due amount. No matter how much effort you can make, no matter how much you do than I have. There's no Greek to pay. You should all take this into account when you vote and see what you are voting on. It has been found that for every debt, for a hundred euros the Greek citizen owes, you are lucky when you collect fourteen. That is a truth that you must take very seriously into account. Second truth: I keep hearing about a humanitarian crisis. I hear we're neoliberal, tough, anal, that you're very sensitive. I don't understand. Carbon the treasure. EUR 200 million for poverty, when we in '14 gave five hundred million of the surplus and not the deficit. Anyway, I don't care about that. I have been interested in - and I have been supporting it for years - the minimum guaranteed income. It's a patent on our sideline. We have been fighting for this for a long time, and that is why it is a solution. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The solution is not to open up social grocery stores, to mitigate poverty by royal acts of philosophy. Oh, no. We really need to give the minimum guaranteed income. We did it in five municipalities, you have to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u555	Thirteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u556	One per region.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u557	We shall vote fanatically in favour of that. CSCE is being abolished, so the only solution is the minimum guaranteed income. Regardless of the party that everyone is in, we must fight this together. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I won't allow you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. We made a lot of mistakes as a party, and we lost the boulder, but this party, New Democracy, in forty-one years, has offered too much to the place. The social net you've found out already. I'll remind you that IKA created it. I would remind you that we created the OGA, the Labour Housing, all the social structures. I'm going to tell you something that the younger people don't know: The People's Hospital that exists, gentlemen of SYRIZA, did so by Tsaldaris to get the poor, the brokers, because then it was the franc, the drachma. So we must build social centre-rights here, a state of social sensitivity expressed by the New Democracy, despite its mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u558	And the NAM saved the people from hunger.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u559	I agree. So that's because the NSA saved from hunger, we're pulling out the other one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u560	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u561	I didn't call you neo-liberal, I didn't call you extreme, I didn't call you undisturbed. You tell us. So we've been indicted. Third truth: Minister, whatever financial measures you take, the insurance is a hole basket. Minister, I hear about insurance all the time. The big players. You also found Mr. Romani to falsify pensioners for eight months and rejoiced their soul, until you became a government for the second time, you threw him away and did well - or left - but his announcements were left. These are fairy tales. The insurance is a serious case, it's a national case, it's all about proud old age. Others slapped them, others beat them, now we're slaughtering them. So here, Minister, we need to see what insurance is. The insurance has two chapters, inflows and outflows. What are the outputs? Pensions. We're boring all the pensions, the outflows. The influxes don't work. Let us look at an intergroup committee, see proposals and positions on the inputs. I do not have time to explain to you that, apart from social contributions and insurance contributions, there are other inputs. Let's see them, let's all vote together, to save the insurance and save the pensioner. A fourth truth: I'm tired of hearing you about corruption and corruption. This is the House. You're nine months, you go now to ten. Bring laws! Because when we brought the laws on banking confidentiality in 2012, you did not vote for it. Today, with banking confidentiality, the Minister of Finance and the auditing mechanisms may enter and control. That's right! You didn't vote for it. The financial prosecutors are an institution that has nowadays become about corruption. Today they're necessary and well done. You didn't vote for it. We say this: not all words, not parallels. Acts! Bring corruption law and stop the spit. Corruption and lamoyes don't have a party or a color. They belong everywhere. That is why we must guard the House and the prestige of the House. And a last word about 'outside'. Don't you think the time has come for 'where you' to be published on the site of the House and for it to be posted all year round? Because when you want to be Minister and MP, you'll know you'll come through the microscope. Private life isn't classified. The people are voting for you to put you here to be a mirror. Let's see, then, in the new Rules of Procedure of the House, all of us together and post on the website of the House, 'from the point of view'. We need to know what kind of money he got in, because the other guy had a million, he had two million. Welcome, they're not stolen. He had the money. Let him say it. And good for him who's got money, and he's getting in to offer home. From that point on, what took place after the parliamentary assembly that entered the House and what happened when it became Minister, to see it. So we shield democracy and not by screaming, by slogans and by swearing each other - now the Golden Dawn is missing. It's not like that. The truth is to work together on positive things and move on. The New Democracy will be absolute when it comes to strife and corruption and what is good for privatizations. But we will vote against these measures, which literally flick the flesh of the Greek people. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u562	Thank you, Mr. Yakumato. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u563	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak after Mr Jakoumatos's infamous speech. A few days ago, the Stepma had estimated that the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict did not have the guarantees to bring our country back to normality. Unfortunately for the country the general philosophy of the plan we are debating today confirms my appreciation. The government continues to ignore the need to become targeted, surgical - I would say - cuts in public spending. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not only an ideological obsession, it is mainly a lack of preparation. Thus, in an economy that in the second half of 2015 will move into recession slightly above or below 2% and with the tax ability of many to have reached its limit, the government again resorts to the same, i.e. in a dead-end recipe, more taxes on fair and unfair. The HNVIA, a red cloth for the opposition SYRIZA at that time, will now be paid from the first euro. Tax rates are increasing in income from rents. This increase is proportionally greater for low incomes, yes, ladies and gentlemen, in the incomes to which the government said it would reinstate tax. It is not even of interest to the government and creditors whether or not the money has been collected. Do you think you negotiated this, gentlemen of the government? A great loser is tourism with the imposition of HNPH, not only in the rented rooms, but also in the individual hotel business, however much the Minister said before us that these are our obligations since the 13th August bill was passed on to our lenders. By increasing the advance payment of the income tax, the government gives a bitter precursor to the tax raid it has prepared for farmers. Let me remind you that the increase in the tax rate is coming, while the refund of the tax on agricultural oil is gradually being phased out. What is more surprised by a government that states Left, is not only the obsession with taxes, but also the consequences of specific arrangements for our weakest citizens. Thus, the free or reduced movement of HEIs, multitudes and students with urban transport is in the air. The question of the retirement of uninsured elderly people and this - the Minister told us - will come back next month, in November, where we will see the new insurance bill as a whole. But the government doesn't stop there. It takes back measures which it itself had voted on, which gave breath to the market and relieved accumulated weights. Insurance in the EAFRD will not be able after the law has been passed to choose the lowest insurance class temporarily so that they can meet their obligations. It was a facility that, according to representatives of the fund and professionals in the sector, it had yielded considerable and possibly could be extended further rather than abolished. Also, EAFRD insured who have applied for retirement and owed up to EUR 50 000 to the fund, will no longer be able to offset the debts they had created in the past. There is no doubt that it is clear from the above that the legislation we are discussing has social elements which are unfair, ineffective and material terms. But the most worrying thing about the government is that it has legislation in hand. He has no plan, he does not consult with the institutions, and finally he does not seem to have understood what is going on in our society. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is positive on provisions regulating the use of public property, on arrangements that contribute to competitiveness and on reducing consumer prices. Such provisions, such as the opening-up of the gas retail market, possibly the restructuring of the railways. We want to support the effort to tackle tax evasion and to shield public administration tax collector mechanisms, sectors that will change the terms of the game to provide more and more investment, to give investors, professionals and those who want to create new stable jobs in decent conditions and to finally operate a protection net for those who really need it. You will be judged, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because if you do not dare, I fear that the next account will be unrealistic for the Greeks and convicted of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u564	Thank you to Mr Yoyaka and to respect time. Mr Marios Salmas has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u565	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will use the seven minutes to focus on specific points in the bill and to be able to develop them more. Today is a difficult day. The Committee on Wise Men has come up with a conclusion on the pension which, in fact, when we hear about Armageddon coming to pensions, is automatically the question being raised and the concern about what we must do to combat unemployment, because that is the focus of the problem. In order to combat unemployment, there must be a productive reconstruction and entrepreneurship support project. I shall refer to a provision that attacks entrepreneurship, especially Greek businesses. And I'll tell you, a man who took tough measures and cut profits from these businesses. I'm talking about Article 15. Article 15 - and I am glad that the Minister is here and the honour he is listening to - is an article that actually interferes with an issue that is sowed. What's the deal? One theme that the troika had targeted in the country: The pharmaceutical cost of the insurance funds from 5.2 billion to 2 billion. This objective has been achieved. Not only has it been achieved, but it has already been ensured. How was it secured? With a closed budget and a clawback, which means that everything that exceeds the cost of 2 billion, the pharmaceutical industry comes and pays it back. What does that mean? That the issue is unsolved and there is no reason for the troika to continue and say further things about a project that has achieved its goal of 2 billion. He's got him. It is the only measure that has a closed budget and a refund of money when it exceeds it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u566	They put it in prerequisites.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u567	I'll tell you now why they put it in prerequisites. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to say it. In the prerequisites, therefore, it entered because, for ten months, this government, in breach of the legally based ministerial decision, did not price twice as it owed the original drugs of the multinationals in Switzerland, France and other countries. The ministerial decision says that twice a year, January and June, a price sheet comes out. That Government did not draw up a price sheet, but did not revise it, and it did not reduce it as a consequence of the prices of the original medicinal products. What does that mean? They delivered the expenditure to 189 million in 2013 and that government took it to 170 million a month. Do you know what today is, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of health insurance? You'll hear it for the first time: 200 million. Do you know how much it is above the target? One hundred and fifty million. Do you know what this means for 30% that's part of it? Forty-five million were paid by Greek patients more than their pockets, because the Ministry's political leadership was indifferent to the fact that it did not apply the legislation. He should have been a prosecutor. So now the troika, which has nothing to say about it, is coming to say: lower generic prices. Yes, sir. What companies produce generics? The Greeks. Powerful industry? The most powerful industry. Export. To reduce generic values. Why is he doing this? According to the explanatory memorandum of the draft law to reduce the insurance costs and rationalise the drug pricing system. That's a lie. What cost will be reduced? Since the budget is closed. Two billion will be paid by the EEA at the end of the year either by Mr Chagos or not by Mr Chagos. And what invoicing system will change? The tariff system is determined by a ministerial decision, a market provision and is already set for the next price package. So, not that either. So, it's a provision that has no excuse. Everything happens in life and they have an excuse. I am addressing the majority parliamentary group. I know it's very difficult for a Member of Parliament to ask you not to vote. It's possible that there's a party discipline or it's in a Memorandum Law. I want you to find an excuse, because you have to vote for this. I'll tell you a little story from my term of office. And you're told by a man who's reduced by 27% the price of the medicine and lost a turnover. Do what Germany does. I'm not telling you anything else. Do you know what Germany is doing? Because she has a multinational industry, she invoices the drugs very expensive and then comes over and gets huge discounts in her insurance system. And when I went as Minister to Germany and spoke to representatives of the insurance system and asked to say: 'How much do you buy, Task Force, where do you want to help with the drugs of the multinationals?' They didn't give me any discounts. Why do they have exact prices and this system? For Greece to get the average of three cheaper, i.e. to get and invoice from other countries that are the entire staff of multinationals who invoice medicines in countries which according to which country they take from the others. Greece, as you know, gets it from twenty-two countries. And from Greece they take eighteen countries. So you understand what a gift this government has given her unwittingly in eighteen countries, on the Brazilian, Turkish markets, on the multinational drugs, since for ten months she has not reconstructed them twice. So I come to say that today the provision says: you will reduce the price of generics. Yes, sir. Is there a benefit for the insurance system? Oh, no. We did. Two billion is anyway. For the patients? Yes, there is. The patients will pay less participations in the cheapest medicine. In other words, they will pay the same share of the cheapest drug, so patients will benefit from this provision. Is there an equivalent device? There is. Reduce participations in generic drugs. Put it in 5%. What's gonna happen? You will increase the market share of generics. So the provision he has asked me personally - and I imagine Mr Loverdos, who is here in the Chamber - the troika did not think of going through with it. Personally, I confess to you, I was asked by the Health Commissioner who was from Malta and I replied: "It is none of your business, we have the measures we have adopted, we have thank God for the medicine, we have achieved the goals, you have no reason within the country how we determine the details." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll tell you why I'm telling you. Because the industry did have profits in the past few years. These have been limited too much. Today, however, things are being pressed. Why? Firstly, because the EEA has rebuilt large multibillion unpaid payments. Secondly, do you know how much it is that they should be competitive? Today, these enterprises are borrowed from 8% to 10%, when competing outs are borrowed with 2% and 3%. So don't kill them when they've already been attacked and they've already paid their share. From 5.2 billion to 2 billion. Tell me another piece that was limited to public spending. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u568	The lenders do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u569	Because you tell me "the lenders do it", I tell you again that we were asked by the lenders. Now they have no right - I address you for saying so - to the lenders to say how to share the pie inside the Greek market. They have no right, Minister, we never did!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u570	The Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u571	You spoke of independence, you spoke of respect for the state's right to self-determination. I still do not criticise you for this provision, but I do not want you to hand over your dominance to the troika, because an official at the Public Health School has recommended it to the technical stage, to Mr Carone, to come and do a game that you need to investigate, and that is why I am telling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u572	Thank you, Mr. Salma. To inform the House that they will speak in a row of three MPs, Mr Antoniadis from New Democracy, Mr Dimas from New Democracy and Mr Constantopoulos from the Democratic Asylum and then the Minister, Mr Xanthi, will speak. Mr Antoniadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u573	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I would like to begin by saying that, as SYRIZA colleagues have heard something about theatre and performances, it really needs a very good theatre and a two-day performance just after the referendum to turn 'no' into 'yes'. Mr. Balaurras is gone. Who thinks that Mr Balaouras is when he chairs the bodies' hearings does not give the floor to the representatives of the Pambodian Federation, the largest Federation in Greece with four hundred and thirty-one unions and gives the floor to a representative of a competition committee? If he does not know, he should be informed, and if he wants to sit here in the temple of democracy to make proper use rather than misuse of his temporary authority. Ladies and gentlemen, the left suit has come the tuition fees which, although VAT has been frozen, are only very expensive that SYRIZA does not pay for them, the people pay them. It's the left party. And I wonder how left a party can be when making such programming statements in January and September, a poor report of ideas. The Left has always been a pioneer in theory, a pioneer in ideas, in ideology, in visions. So SYRIZA has nothing to do with this area except the second part, of course, because the leftists were the first to ideas, but last in actions. Also, how much left can a Prime Minister be when, from the three days of programming declarations on the first day of the day, the Prime Minister only speaks with eighty and hundred colleagues the opportunity to speak on the programming declarations? Who does he think is Mr. Tsipras? The President of the United States? Three-day programming statements, aren't they? Why was Monday burned? To speak only with the Prime Minister? Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now proceed to the next item. We have heard nothing about minimum guaranteed income, about reforms in justice, about combating bureaucracy. We have seen the laughter, the rare health reform already, reforming it by your own reform and along with it and your Minister, Mr Kurubli, who, among us, has also made seas. The same happened in education. We have seen you reform your own reform and along with it and Mr Baltas. Among us, he screwed up, except instead of going to the mountains, you gave them another chance, as if they were not here in government, but the game "let the opportunity". By the way, since we talked about education, we expect Mr. Friend to revise these statements on the denial of the Genocide of Asia Minor and Pontian Hellenism. As long as he doesn't do it and he does what he doesn't understand, it's clinging to the memory of the ancestors. We are also waiting for Mr. Friends to reform the reform of Mr. Baltas, who started the notorious reforms, removing just ten pages from the history of Paraxean Hellenism. And finally, after hosting internationalism in his word, let him bring history to the books of history, the history of all Hellenism, and not the shrinking history of Greece, because then they find opportunity and the wrestling of others. For farmers and businesses, permanent taxes. If we do not understand in this Parliament that if private initiative and the rural economy are not encouraged, we will always be discussing new measures and new taxes. Did you hear anything, ladies and gentlemen, about the infamous German allowances? You had built a whole manifesto for seven months. Why did we hear nothing in the programme statements? I'll answer you for what. For a large political, national and social issue you have only used it to pressure Germany. That's called political extortion. You are doing the same with the question of the revision of the Constitution and the simple analogue. You've had it as a flag for decades as a left. You didn't bring it in January with clear words because you believed it. But you are now using it as a means of dealing with the other parties to get into power, because from the next few months you will see polls plunging and showing you last. Where's the fuel tax evasion? You were talking about some billions you'd catch. You left the fuel, because you're "burning" obviously, you went to cigarettes and drinks and you're about to catch the Omonoia Square coups. Obviously, they are to blame for the great tax evasion. Did you hear anything about decentralisation? Because you spoke of corruption, ladies and gentlemen, corruption exists where there is political authority and money and the corruption uterus is here, in the Kolonaki Square Triangle - Omonoia Square and Syntagma Square. This is where the political power lies, and all the money and money are here. If you want to fight corruption, do decentralisation and decentralisation of funds to the region. A left party talking about social justice had to have it first. As we talked about decentralisation, I would like to refer to two issues relating to my country, Florina. I would like to say to you - you do not know most - that the Fryrinites live in a wealth of more than 30 billion euros. It's lignite and electricity. This wealth is spread throughout Greece. We appear rich and take less money to the NSRF, fewer positions to combat unemployment. We pay 740 million to power the islands and we do well. We pay as PPC and as Florina social invoice for five hundred thousand of our fellow citizens and we do well. We pay for all of Greece, because the transfer of electricity is costly and we are poor and the world is starving and we ask for free electricity for businesses, farmers and households. Unfortunately, I do not have time to go any further. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that these measures, which are planned - everyone has agreed beforehand and I do not want to tire you - lead to the impoverishment of citizens. They seal and strangle businesses and farmers. As far as reforms and corruption are concerned, we will be together. As far as the pensions of the elderly are concerned, at last you can all applaud them together. All the rest we will vote against. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, in a row. I do not doubt the government, ladies and gentlemen, because it has done so everywhere in health and education, in negotiation and in debt cuts. I'm only blaming her for one thing. Because he betrayed the expectations of the young people who have voted for them. Because he insulted the dignity of the young, offering them spaghetti and barley instead of work. The story awaits you in the corner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u574	Thank you, Mr. Ioannis Antoniadis, for the New Democracy. Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes, and then the President of the Union of Centres, Mr. Vassilis Leventis, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u575	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great deal of evidence from the provisions of the plan, but also from its general philosophy and direction that the pre-election policy of the SYRIZA was intelligent. But his post-election practice has indeed been - let me say - HANPHESTA. I would therefore like to see, as a detailed debate has been held in committee, that you allow me to take a more political approach. It is therefore clear from the first multi-project by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL that you have managed to capture large popular masses and indeed to vote for you in the last elections. You do not need to be concerned about the fact that you have actually managed to hoard their vote. Because I want to remind you that in the January elections you promised to abolish HISPIA, a promise that gave you great political power. In the light of the September elections, you promised the rationalisation of the ENPIA. Neither did the other one. What happened? Its extension with the abolition of any exceptions were sensitive to the national economy and weak professional groups such as the room owners and individual hotel operators. It was, of course, before the increase in VAT in hotels. What are you doing? Beat one of the two main pillars, tourism, pillars that hide the key to exiting the labyrinth of the crisis. In the second phase of prerequisites, what are you going to do? You will bring the measures that eliminate the primary sector. In other words, you will also demolish the second pillar, that of primary production, from which we hope to get out of the crisis. But that's not all. You did not say electorally to pensioners that you will go to straight cuts, horizontal cuts in their pensions. You didn't tell the elderly uninsured that what you voted as a election present will be abolished post-electionally. If that is not the application of the vote of the citizens and even of sensitive economic and social groups? What is it? Remove the provision for relocation of insurance class for young scientists. Because they're the ones who can't pay their premiums, the new lawyers, the new doctors, the new engineers. And you enclaved them and guarded their vote, because you electorally gave them the hope that they would be able to pay their premiums. And you're going after school to remove that possibility. They're not the beat-up doctors, lawyers and engineers who can't pay their premiums. They are the young, self-employed scientists, those who fail to make their premiums today. You're removing this. And the worst, what was your second flag for the September elections? Wasn't the famous hundred-dose setting? Didn't you catch a million people in the hope that you could make a fresh start? You're coming now and you're boning this hundred-dollar setting and you're starting to get off. Tens of thousands of people are already benefiting. Some figures say that, while EUR 2.5 billion had been put into regulation for debts to the insurance funds, it is already EUR 1.5 billion that has been committed. Wasn't that a violation of the Greek people's vote? How do you manage to vote for your programme by the Greek people? What you were saying in the election vote rather than what you were doing post-electionally. I could mention many more and more of them for sensitive social groups. The question is that your policy, as it applies after the September elections, hits the two important pillars of the economy, namely tourism along with small and medium-sized entrepreneurship as a whole. For individual tourist and rented rooms do not have large-scale tourists, but have them - and live their families with them - fifty thousand Greek small businessmen. And you are now preparing for the new stage against the agricultural world and the primary sector. Should we not in this country at some point decide which areas we will support in order to get out of the tunnel of crisis? The measures are yours. You may say that the New Democracy has also voted for them, but, gentlemen, we remind you that you have invited us in the House to support the country's euro stay and we have come feeling our responsibilities and we have done so. In the famous negotiations of the seventeen hours of Mr. Tsipras I remember Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Sakellaridis and others accompanied him. It did not call for any national negotiating teams to deal with the content of this conspicuous agreement. This is about you. It's your child. After all, I wonder what SYRIZA Members are answering to their voters and in January and September, in the racing question: 'Comrades, where do they go from for Thessaloniki?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u576	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u577	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment on a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u578	The Minister has the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u579	In relation to tax matters for the hundreds, firstly, it has not come out of a hundred instalments for tax debts nor one citizen if he did not comply with the provisions of the hundreds of instalments. The number that sounded probably about another adjustment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u580	For the insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u581	‘For insurance funds’. Let's get this straight, so we don't have to make a wrong impression.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u582	It's the same painful thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u583	I say: it does not exist for tax debts. On the issue of HISPIA, everything that HISPIA paid for 2014 will also pay in 2015, not a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u584	The same?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u585	Hotels, rooms, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u587	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I was invited to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and a debate was held on the establishment of the Greek Financial Council. So there I saw the Ministerial Council propose Mr Corlira. I knew Mr Korlira as PASOK-appointed commander of the Ionian Bank twenty-five years ago, and I protested. Didn't I say that he's not remarkable, that he didn't meet the conditions, but because he has an age and because we know he was from the PASOK site, couldn't SYRIZA find another person? So, we're pulling out of naphthalene people and carrying them in 2015? This man served at the bank at the bad age of ruffles, seafood. I did not say that he committed illegal acts, but I certainly do not consider him the most appropriate for the era of Europe and the euro. So I believe that, in the era of the euro and Europe, people who come up with new morals and new behaviours are needed because, if we take the same ones, we are burned! That is what I believe, in my humble opinion. Is SYRIZA going back to PASOK executives? It's something that, if I see it going on, I'm going to point this out, because I've been expecting new behaviors and new faces. That's what I wanted to stress and they didn't let me ask him. I wanted to ask him: When did those spectacular recruitments take place, all that was done, what did he do? Did he ever object? I heard a Mr. Androylakis of PASOK on a channel that said "we didn't bring," he says, "The rushphetti, we found it, and it's just our fault that we didn't stop it." Listen to an excuse! Apology is, they're probably not to blame, they found it, and they're to blame for continuing it. Here - must the Minister agree - has he become any self-critic about how we went bankrupt? Because the parties succeeded and survived. They managed all parties and survived. The New Democracy survived, SYRIZA survived and survived with him the old PASOK and there is a small PASOK - ruin, the ruins of the old PASOK, the monumental piece. The whole PASOK has moved, if I'm not mistaken, to SYRIZA. The fans at least all, but also the executives. If we take one to one of the ministers, one to one of the bank governors and the trade unions, etc., we'll find the old PASOK. Has it become any self-critic about how we went bankrupt? Because we are waiting to relaunch the economy with the same parties and about the same people, and that is a paradox. You know, if we go out and say 'children, the same parties that went bankrupt, they're trying to save us', they'll take us for crazy people in Europe. I think so. Anyway. The Prime Minister insists that he should apologise, because for five years he said that he has other solutions. I like him as a person, and if I can help him in the future, I will. Politics to help him, I mean. If he accepts the proposals I have made to him, I am willing to help, as would Mr Meimarakis. Whoever went out to the first party I said in an election that I would help him. I do not see myself as also responsible for both the New Democracy and SYRIZA, because the status of recruitment, waste, scandals, and so on, I think it is both.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u588	For the country's debt?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u589	For everything, sir. Is the only debt that's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u590	For everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u591	And for the debt, I'll tell you right after. In any case, I would ask that an apology be given to youth. He told her of the youth five years the Prime Minister had other solutions, that he had allies in the South to fight against the North, that he would rip memos and delete debts. Did he do anything about it? On the contrary, he signed a heaviest memorandum. Varoufakis dragged him by saying that Merkel would retreat. I know that throughout SYRIZA's first governance was the case: there was a Varoufakis who said Tsipras that there is a lot of 130 billion of them in the European Central Bank, the bonds, and you will see that Merkel will in the end retreat. And instead of Merkel retreating, she spent all the time in the quarter, we went off schedule, and then we downloaded our pants. About that was because the 50 billion pledge was added, which was new. And that was added because there were voices in Greece that debt is shameful, burdensome, we do not recognize it. And the strangers heard it and said: Do you not recognize the debt? Take 50 billion mortgage, one thing that first came in and what does it mean? It means that if we do not show consistency with the programme, with the agreements made by Mr Tsipras, we will be taken by airports, fields, plots, etc. That's where our real estate is. The New Democracy showed in the first period - in the period before these elections - that it had a sense of responsibility and voted for some things. It is now coming to say 'we are not voting for anything'. What's that? It was, in other words, a parentheses of seriousness and returned to its self-destructiveness. I don't understand. They don't explain why they were voting on. They say they were voting so we wouldn't leave the euro. Why, now is it certain we're staying? Now the problem is solved, so the New Democracy can be harder? These are incoherences and show that the right side remains unrepentant. It is only parentheses, that is, to show maturity and soundness. And I am very sorry, because I believe that all parties in Greece, even the JRC with blind 'no', have to grow and improve over time. I think so. Mr Tsipras, a Minister for the Government of Mr. Tsipras, speaking incidentally with one of my own people, said that 'the area of the Centre is difficult' - because he understood that he belonged to the Central Association of the people with whom he spoke - 'because you have the PASOK, you have the River that also declares that you are central and you will be eaten'. You should know that the center space was always through difficult points and traps. I'm not scared. If they're central, they'll look. If they just declared centers and they're callers, they'll still show up. The battle is in Parliament and in society, and that is where I am not afraid. I am one of the people I have not been afraid of thirty years of this kind of battle, and I believe that the Centro Association will win these battles and it will appear who is the center. Centro is not whoever states as such. Why did Mr. Kambourakis at the MEGA fail to understand what we are and he said: 'What are you finally doing? Are you left? Because we were asking for the many pensions to be stopped. "You guys are left? What are you?’ He asked us. The word centre has always been, since George Papandreou, the place that has been able to borrow everything that is positive anywhere. That's why it's called a center, the balance. So, if we have to cut off some pensions, double and triple, if we have to put a ceiling on pensions, at EUR 1,500, and that is to help the poor people, the unemployed, the completely deprived, we will not do it? Some people are being tampered with in terms of "But they have paid contributions!" But I didn't say they illegally get the many pensions. I did not say that they were illegally taken, but if the possessors and possessors do not now make a sacrifice in favour of the poor, when will they? If in the crisis there is intransigence now and everyone is being tampered with by having paid contributions, what will happen? I don't doubt they take them legally, but three, four jobs, who had them? Who could in a 24-hour be doing four eight hours? I don't understand who these Greeks are. So they were served by a system that allowed them this thing. Instead of inconvenience with the wise men who are not wise, the Sage Committee, I would ask the Minister to pass on to the Prime Minister that the right position and position in which the Greek state will definitely go - whatever the Prime Minister - is that every Greek should have a pension and no pension should be more than EUR 1,500. In today's data, that's enough money. We also need to cut the pensions of the rich. Those who have income - income, no property, it is wrong to regard it as property, because you may have two large houses and a big field and be without revenue - over 3,000 euros a month must be deprived of their pension. He'll only be given medicine and hospitals. We are doing this to support the poorest people again and to return the balance to the insurance system. Because the Committee on Wise Men takes the property as a criterion, and it's a mistake. There's a fortune that doesn't pay for anything. How will the other man live? Will he start to sell or cut bits to sell from a field? That's not the stuff. I think that's where we're going, no matter how bad the government is, no matter how daren't say it. We need to speak frankly, because very quickly there will be a time when no one will be retired, absolutely no one in this place. For growth, of course, the bill does not speak. I don't have to, because I saw it. I believe that growth is two kinds: the money that some have made in the last five years abroad must return without tax at all and they must have half of them invested in Greece. This will be the benefit of the Greek public. But they should return the money so that every prosecution can stop. That money that's been made over the last five years must be returned. It's a lot of basic money, because they also need the solidity of the banking system. No recapitalisations, we'd need nothing more if they returned that money. Furthermore, as far as foreigners are concerned, foreigners must retreat and I think they will do so: the first five years' obligations to transfer them further, at a zero rate, so as to allow us this money, which is the obligations of the country of the immediate five years, to invest in Greece to create investment. If we do these two things, i.e. returning foreign money and accepting foreigners not to pay the bonds and bonds and liabilities of five years, I think that is a good start and will give an incentive for foreigners to come. Don't expect investment while there's psychology, we leave or we stay in the euro. If we wait for investment in time when we play whether we stay or leave, we wait hard, we wait for free. Nobody's coming. Olad will be here with businessmen. Nothing will happen. Tsipras went to Obama. Nothing happened. A reporter asked me: Will Obama bring money from Tsipras? I say: Samaras had gone four or five times to Obama and you saw what he had brought. On the debt issue, SYRIZA makes another crime and does it for the MPs to convince them that we are going through these tough measures, but we will have success in debt, we will be cut off. I've told you from now on they won't cut anything off. All they'll accept is that his payback, the escalation will go further. Mr. Tsipras is using this, maybe to mock you to his MPs and convince you to vote for these heavy measures. Keep this as a note for those who are present. I say it kindly. The Union of Centres is obliged not to vote. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Union of Centres is ringing.]] Time's up? I was in the mood of coming to Parliament to vote, but I cannot vote crazy for plastic money, that is to say that we have to pay him with cards, pay him for the card coup - if we were to talk about plastic money up to 200 euros, it would be a little reasonable - or retired people not to pay them at all and give them only 150 euros. These are absurd things that, if the government implements them, will be disliked. So what am I afraid of? I fear that a 30% -40% - will be consolidated - I said yesterday to some channel - that the government will not pay, and so the government will collapse. And then, the solutions around February will be two: Or again elections or the formation of a universal government. And you should know that I, as Vassilis Leventis, have been in favour of forming a universal government since 2009. And I said to George Papandreou: "Don't form a government, because you'll get to the point that you can't get out of your house." The country needs a universal government, because the measures are too hard and you, the SYRIZA Members, no matter how important you are, will not be able to raise the burden of these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u592	Thank you, Mr Vassili Leventis. Mr Christos Dimas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like, with all due respect and appreciation to the person of the President of the Central Association, to respond to something about New Democracy and, in particular, about the way in which the opposition is exercised. With great interest, Mr President, I have heard that you will vote against today's bill. Let me remind you that some of the provisions we consider to be in the right direction will be supported. For we believe, not in his sterile opposition, 'not in all'. And we have proved that over time. We are going to vote on some provisions which are not even a step forward. However, the taxes and overtaxation of the Greek citizens will not be supported. As I would remind you - and you said in your speech - that in the past seven months we have voted in favour of some of the bills which are today, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, we will not vote against. I should also like to remind you, Mr President, that the New Democracy has been responsible for Critical Opposition when it is in opposition. Even in 2009, 2010 and 2011, when we were in the opposition, many reforms in public administration voted in favour of them. And that is good to remind the Greek citizens. Today, however, it turns out that hard negotiation was a myth. Today it turns out that Mr. Tsipras was either systematically lying to us or not conscious of reality. Today, unfortunately, we are landing on the effects of the policy of creative ambiguity. But now, the lies are over, and now is the time of the truth. And the truth, unfortunately, is unbearable - not for SYRIZA, but for Greek citizens. Ten months later, looking at things with coolness and objectivity, I want you all to wonder if the country was in a better state in December 2014 than it is today. But let us see what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has already done. You've increased VAT to 23%. You've increased taxes on hotels. You have again increased the solidarity levy by 30%. You have reduced the incentives for farmers, increased their taxation, increased them and excise duty on oil. You have increased the advance payment of income tax to everyone and especially to free professionals. You reduce pensions by 11%, both mains and subsidiary. You reduce from EUR 1,500 to EUR 1,000 the threshold of the ineligible wages, pensions, insurance benefits from deposits. These are only some of the results of the ‘superior’ and ‘reliable negotiation’. With today's bill, however, overtaxes go beyond anything. In fact, a pan-European investigation of PWC grants Mr Tsipras the gold medal of overtaxation of businesses, natural persons and VAT. You cut insurance and pension rights and reduce pensions, even retroactively. You're increasing insurance contributions. You are obliged by small and medium-sized enterprises to pay insurance contributions, depending on the squares of the building in which the company is housed, that is to say, for employees who do not have it. Initially, you promised to abolish the ENVY, then to reduce the ENVY. Then you promised to change the objective values. Eventually, you didn't do any of this. On the contrary, you extended the ENPIA. You change the amount of instalments for the loan debtors, which you brought to the House just a few months ago. In other words, you vote in March and you are now voting in October. Well, you don't call that responsible governance! We are struggling to find any bits of development in the bill, which is full of material measures. When all countries in Europe are making great efforts to reduce tax rates, employers' contributions, insurance contributions, as in Greece in 2014, in order to stimulate the private sector, free traders, micro-enterprises, farmers, export businesses, the SYRIZA Government - Independent Greeks are following the opposite course and increasing taxes everywhere for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u594	A motive to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u595	I understand your anxiety. But you'll let me finish. The programme which has the signature of Tsipras - Kammenos, instead of relying on the structural changes needed by the operation of the economy and legislation, rather than relying on the least but most efficient state, rather than on the reduction of state waste, is based on overtaxation. Unfortunately, it is unthinkable to invest in Greece with the political instability that prevails and the limitations of capital, the famous capital control. At the same time, unemployment is increasing again. In fact, unemployment is much higher than last year, as is shown by the figures published yesterday in the 'ERGAN'. So it's necessary that the government change the question. The concepts of economic competitiveness and attracting your investment are completely unknown. At the same time, you're mocking whole categories of people. Shortly before the elections, in July you introduced a law - Mr. Skourletis, I am sure he will remember - to restore the pension of uninsured over-aged expatriates with effect from 1 October 2015. Today, you are abolishing this arrangement. In other words, you promised and voted for the election and you vote for the post-elections. You disguise in record time, not only yourself, but also those who believed you and voted for you. The "superior" trading account comes in heavy instalments. First instalment is today: New taxes. More taxes. Even more unfair taxes. Therefore, do not expect us to contribute in this direction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The over-taxation and lack of development program is your work, like your work it is the recession that you have regained the economy. We are not voting for measures that you bring, especially taxes. But we support reforms in public administration, despite the fact that they are few and cowardly. We invite you, even now, to implement policies to stimulate competitiveness, measures to restore confidence in the Greek economy and bring it back to a path of growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u596	Thank you, Mr. Christos Dimas from the New Democracy. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Association. Then the Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, will speak. Ladies and gentlemen, we will end at 12 o'clock. Tomorrow the meeting will begin at 10 a.m. and we will continue with the speakers who are on the list and follow. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u597	I would like to say to the President-in-Office, Mr Leventis, and to say to him that I am a Member of this 'little PASOK' which you said, Mr President, and I am truly honoured to be a Member of this party, because it was this party that kept the country up. It is this party that really gave you the right today to be free home and to be a MP. Ladies and gentlemen, in revolutionary gymnastics, the government of the first time presented Greek society. You were in the opposition and you said that you would abolish the memorandum. You became government and you went through the tough negotiation. You were talking about german germans, merckelists, Cholakoglou, national brokers, and in the summer you asked Antipolis to vote for the first Memorandum of Left. Only that was the third memorial to the country, an inappropriate memorial. Of course, that is what you have led it to be Anti-Politicism and, unfortunately, today you are also applying it as a government. Ladies and gentlemen, other countries have faced the same problems faced by Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Cyprus. They, however, managed, beyond party strangles with compassion, conscientiousness, understanding and wiseness to face the crisis and to rectify. And here's the question: why was Greece caught in a third tougher memorandum? Have you ever wondered, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how disastrous and demagogic your attitude was as Opposition? How bad did the division in memorial and antimony? So now, where do you rank yourself, now that, instead of an agreement of 1.6 or 1.8 billion, you have brought a heavy, difficult, hard memorandum of 14.5 billion? The tough negotiation, therefore, proved unconditional. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not live in the country of the Lottery. We still have strong memory. I would remind you that you were saying that you were going to give the thirteenth pension. Today's no reason! You said you would delete the debt with an article and a law. If you saw it, tell me. You said you wouldn't make pension cuts. Paul Michael, your former Minister, signed a pension of EUR 396. Rainbow barbarism for the popularly weaker classes, which are overwhelmed by the abolition of the provisions concerning our weakest fellow citizens, the uninsured elderly of 360 euros! Insert national poverty pension! You said you would bring a minimum wage of EUR 751. Today's not a word! You said you were going to abolish HISBIA. Now legislate on his stay and even abolish favorable arrangements, such as for rent rooms. Let the Minister tell us here whether this abolition will, of course, also apply to the owners of the agricultural parcels. You made a referendum, gentlemen of the government, on the pretext of bringing a better deal. You have, of course, transformed the "no" of the Greek people into "yes" as "yes" of indulgence and extinction. All Europe was talking about Grexit and you were whistling. So you have created a political ambiguity. At that crucial moment for the country, PASOK was responsible, once again, with its President, Ms. Genemas, for energising our allies, the European social and social democrats and in practice for supporting the Greek effort to stay upright, to remain in the euro and in Europe. You signed your signature, Prime Minister you are missing, in an unbearable and imprudent agreement for all Greeks. You have reached the account of the memorandum, along with the recapitalisation, at 40 billion and, if we add all 9.8 billion to the mechanism of the preventive credit line, the amount is being launched at 50 billion. So the fund has been closed to 50 billion. Finally, it was too expensive for the tuition to learn from the government the first time on the left. You have proclaimed elections to solve your inner-party issue. You wanted the ANELs to enter the House to cooperate, and they came in. Go, go, go, go, go, go! That's what you promised the Greek people. You'll answer to him. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which we have been discussing these three days, is a bill that is far from your pre-election commitment, both from the Thessaloniki programme in January and from your election commitments in September. It reveals the greatness of your election demagogy and cancels your election commitments. 'Koufia words', they say in my village, 'full candles'. Adopt today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, everything that you have been denounced until yesterday. We therefore welcome you on the path of realism and reality. Where's your moral advantage? The relationship between your political speech and the truth is seriously suffering. The story of the "first time left" falls apart. What you legislate today is what you called neoliberal yesterday. So what is the old and what's the new? The conclusions are yours. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against the bill in principle. We shall, of course, vote on provisions that we consider to be useful for the country and for the citizens. We will not vote for the increase in the retirement age because they are cancelled and guaranteed pension rights. Nor can we agree to abolish the pensions of over-age insurers. The Government abolishes the possibility of offsetting debts with the right to pension for the selfemployed. In tax regulations it asks the taxpayer to pay tax even from rents which he has not collected. Micro-ownership is essentially in the middle of it. We're not going to vote for the pension sentences you're pointing out. The government has made most of the arrangements for the hundreds of doses available. Now it's changing everything, no matter what. The worst thing is that it does not give the administration the right to the subjective crisis to decide on what is necessary. There are no criteria or nothing. These, of course, apply to the people, because, for economic elites, they have a weakness and are keeping the act of legislation in force for debtors over one million, which we have repeatedly asked for and did not bring their names to Parliament. In the field of medicine, as an opposition, you did not vote for any provision, because, as you said, the Greek industry would be destroyed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We guided the way in which we have always reduced the pharmaceutical expenditure, without the destruction of the Greek pharmaceutical industry and we have done so. You know that your arrangements degrade the Greek industry, creating thousands of unemployed. Do you, then, bear in mind what impact your arrangements have on you? Ladies and gentlemen, you are asking us today to withdraw by our vote what we voted in March. In other words, you are asking us to clear up the provisions that you have brought to Parliament. However, I would also like to dwell on two points.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u598	Mr. Comrade, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u599	It is unacceptable to abolish the possibility of new EFF members subject to a lower insurance category and, in fact, retroactively. New insured people, young lawyers, engineers and doctors will be charged, who are now severely affected by the crisis. You're pushing them out of the country. You're taking them out, Prime Minister, the ticket to foreign today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Bring him in with the n. 43312015 a positive arrangement. We voted to enable professional sports authors, who were, until then, insecure, to be insured in the Journalists' Fund. You're abolishing them today. What financial benefit, then, are you served by this arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u600	Mr Colleague, please complete your thoughts. It's already late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u601	I'm done. We have therefore tabled the objection of unconstitutionalism, supported by our Parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos, a moment ago to abolish the self-determination of public bodies, because the arrangements that bring about opens Halos to Ottas, universities, hospitals. You're tied to the corrections and we're waiting for them. The Minister for Finance cannot handle their cash and have a parade of the institutions from the House again. Ladies and gentlemen, the legalisation of corruption is Article 13. It cannot be promoted within the Greek Parliament the discharge of the concessionaires of the public sector, of the OTAs and of the TIAD from all the compensation fees. You brought Law 43312015. The organizations in the insurance sector were given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u602	Mr. Comrade, thank you. You're closing, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u603	Convert their funds to self-managers, and now you're abolishing it. For example, ETAPAS has taken all steps in the short term and now you are retroactively abolishing them. Other victims of your unilateral legislative actions. The conclusions are yours. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, but the Minister, but the Secretary-General, on equivalents, says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u604	Mr. Comrade, please! Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u605	So tell us what these equivalents are. I'm closing, Mr. President. You abolished the special VAT arrangements for the islands. You've raised 10% of tickets to urban transportation. You abolished the institution councils for higher education. A law that was voted for by two hundred and fifty five MPs was abolished by one’s decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u606	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes. Unfortunately, we have reduced the time to the ministers as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u607	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take the floor again today because there has indeed been a very great debate on this regulation, which is in the bill, Article 15. What's Article 15 doing? It specializes an element of the n. 4336, an arrangement which was a central element of the Agreement with lenders. What was that arrangement saying? He said it was time to implement the forecast already in existence since 2013 for the invoice of off-patent and therefore generic. It is wrong to say that this approach only affects generics. There are also offshore patents for multinationals and not just domestic industry. So what did this arrangement say? He said that the resolution adopted by Mr von Wogau was being implemented. 4213/2013, lifting a protective barrier then, that this provision does not concern invoiced, approved medicines before 2012. That was the demand of the lenders. And, indeed, lenders continue to press for a policy of lowering prices per product, which, in our view, is deadlocked and, while public pharmaceutical expenditure has been reduced by 54%, it has only led to a 5% reduction in the volume of prescriptions and no reduction in the volume of food. It has led to the same period moving a large part of the cost of drug spending to citizens. In other words, when public pharmaceutical expenditure was drastically reduced - and rightly so, in our view - the citizens did not have any relief, they were barely able to increase their share and as a percentage and as an absolute number per medicinal product. And, of course, there was no increased penetration of generics, which was supposed to be the target of the central policing medicine. Currently the drugs produced in the country are 13.5% of the market, the packed are 12% and the imported are 75%. That's the picture. It is therefore a dead-end pharmaceutical policy, because the feeling here is that we have had an excellent pharmaceutical policy, which comes to cancel and overthrow this draft law. What is the basis of the troika's insistence on this? It is based, ladies and gentlemen, on the fact that this system had been distorted. We have a high level of generic prices - perhaps of the highest in Europe - we have generic prices that are more expensive than off-tent and we also have a fairer sale in our country than in other countries where there are exports. So there are distortions and there is, ladies and gentlemen, the persistence of the troika. Mr Salmas wondered why they insist so much, since the budgetary objective has been taken. Indeed, having a closed budget ensures that no more than 1,945 billion will be paid. However, the aim is not to have an uncontrolled expenditure which will be cut to this limit. The aim is, at some point, to rationalise the whole system and not to have a clawback and rebate, which is an unfair system, it is horizontal and, in our view, as long as it is maintained and maintained, it reduces the possibilities of the domestic industry to absorb it. Multiethnics have a much greater potential, even to lose in our country, but to keep prices that make them competitive on other markets. So the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are actually paying for the decade 2000 party. That is the political substance of the matter. This party at the drug scene has a political name. We know very well when the expenditure explosion occurred, when it more than doubled and reached 5.3 billion...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u608	When did it happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u609	Between 2004 and 2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u610	...how the drugs were invoiced, with which opaque procedures at the Ministry of Trade, without any control mechanisms in full political coverage of this party. That's what we're paying now. This unreliableness of our country is paying us to Europe. The previous governments have come and, in our view, have abused the concept of generosity, because they have used it as a tool for cutting down and implementing austerity policy in the field of health. What do we have to do? In our view, we must do everything we can at the level of negotiation with the institutions, in order to maintain a critical protectionist barrier that exists today. I referred yesterday to him. This concerns 2/3 of the generics and 50% of the off-patents, which as long as this cut remains, are not affected by this change in the law. However, because the price field is not privileged to fight, in our view, the battle must be given to the development plan of the national, the Greek domestic pharmaceutical industry. We must support innovation with development incentives, support investment in research, penetration into foreign markets, facilitate transnational and trade agreements with other countries. There are such invitations. So we think that the Greek pharmaceutical industry can be sustainable and not just by focusing on the price field and, of course, through a serious intervention to increase the reliability of the quality generic medicine produced in the country. This is where the medical community is responsible. We also need to strengthen the credibility of medicines by upgrading the control mechanisms, such as the EEO, to set up a serious system of evaluation of medicine and technology in the country, so that medicines and medical services, which we import into our country, are invoiced and approved. There must be a serious negotiating committee, which has never existed. The large buyer, EOPY, was supposed to not be able to exploit his monopsychological position on the market and achieve better prices on expensive innovative medicines currently imported. Within the period of crisis and expenditure reduction, high-cost medicines, from 423 million went to 726 million. We need to create an integrated and upgraded electronic prescribing system, which will interfere with the provocative demand, where costs are generated and not when the compensation is being paid, where we will come with horizontal interventions to get behind the dues. There must be, of course, an organised primary care system with family doctors, who will not just be prescribers, but will have the overall care and responsibility of managing the patient's problems. Another public pharmaceutical policy therefore needs, with a register of patients with registries, to upgrade all these services. These are the structural measures which they need and which have not taken place in the previous Memorandum. So the question is who has the credibility of going ahead with these changes so that we can actually use the comparative advantage that the country has in the field of medicine, because there is a comparative advantage and it must be supported. There is both a productive basis and an innovation and research and a skilled human resource, and this thing needs to be supported, but through such an overall intervention. This is our view and we believe that with a symphony of healthy forces that has the health system, with clear relationships and explanations, with open papers, we can move forward in the next period, making it manageable to reduce prices, which will result from this arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u611	Mr President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u612	Mr. Loverdo, for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u613	As a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u614	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u615	Enough of what the Minister said is in line with me. And I would like to say to him that in everything, on the basis of his speech and his contributions, he brings us to the Committee on Social Affairs, we will be sick in the context I mentioned. However, there is one point, Mr President. The draft law has been brought to the committee and the provision concerning generics has been added. There were discussions with operators yesterday and the Minister came here this evening and said that some objections were correct and tabled an amendment. The amendment was, in other words, precisely the same regulation that had been adopted this morning. In other words, it brought an amendment that changed the wording, but the meaning remained the same - we said that - and we, and many majority Members, considered that there has been a mistake and will fix it. Instead of making a reference to this tonight, the Minister made his speech and it is his right. However, it is our right to ask for clarification. Firstly, Minister, what you said last night did not go through the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u616	Come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u617	He didn't come in. Look at the device. Unless something's wrong with me. The values of generic drugs, regardless of their date of adoption, are reduced to 32.5% of the price of the corresponding prototypes - yes, it has passed - as defined above and not to 65%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u618	Did he come in or didn't he come in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u619	Come in, yeah. I'm making it right. The first wording was said, Mr Minister: '65% of the value of off-patent'. You are now saying 32.5% of the price of the originals. Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u620	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u621	There must be a very clear explanation here from your side, because it will be judged by what you say exactly what Members of the parties will do. Our opinion is that it is wrong to regulate. And as I said this morning in terms of the subject, there is a limit, Mr Minister, on invoicing. You are also told by the Scientific Service of Parliament that you have the discretionary discretion to invoke three rules. In the final analysis, your intervention, the invoicing of medicines, ceases to be absolutely in your discretion, in so far as you violate the rule of cost of production and sale that leaves room for a small profit even.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u622	Let the Minister answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u623	If you do not serve this objective - read a little about what the Scientific Studies Directorate says, there is a firm case law on this - you are in danger of bringing a regulation that, by a majority, you will pass, create problems and lose the regulation in the Council of State. Take care of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u624	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u625	Indeed, I have failed to answer what you have put to today's speech, Mr Loverdos. I think it is quite clear. The original provision, the second paragraph, said that generic values, irrespective of the date of their approval, are reduced to 32.5% of the price of the corresponding prototypes, as defined above. What's defined above? How off patents are invoiced, those that lose their patent. There was, therefore, the possibility of this being misunderstood, and this has emerged from the industry, which said that there is a possibility that it might be misunderstood and considered that 32.5% is about 50% of the above paragraph, because this is described in the above paragraph, that off-patent would be invoiced to 50% of the original and that is, that is, 16.25% of the off-patent. That is why we considered it appropriate to re-establish the right balance. You know very well from n. 4213/2013 that explicitly states that genericity is a monitoring of the value of off-patent, is 65% of the value of off-patent and that is the point of getting this thing into it. This means that if off-patent falls below 50%, as the agreement regulates, with the three lower off-patent prices, respectively, the price of generics will be reduced. Otherwise, if we did not do that, there would be this paradox, that off-tents should be reduced, that the three lower prices and generics remain stable, because they would only be mentioned in the original. Do you understand the difference?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u626	Very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u627	That's the whole point. So the logic is that it requires. That is why these factors have also come out so that there is exactly a matching of the value of generic with off-patent and that there is no distortion that exists today. There are prazzols that their generosity is more expensive than off patent. This is a distortion, Mr Loverdo and, unfortunately, at this level, we cannot have a credible negotiation within Europe. Let me say a few words on the issue you raised in relation to unconstitutionalism. I think there is no such matter as the Scientific Committee of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u628	We didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u629	Good. Watch out. I said that this regulation and to the extent that the protective barrier of 12/7 is maintained, two thirds of the generic and 50% of the off-patent are protected. So no dramatic price reduction is immediately apparent. We shall see this, after all, and I believe in the price sheet, which will be issued soon and indeed, is right, Mr Salmas, who said he was late. There was the general difficulty of this year, there was negotiation, summer developments. While he was going out at the beginning of the summer, with all this, say, liquidity, he's relocated. It'll come out. We will insist on this, and we also call on the industry to bring us serious studies demonstrating what the Commission is putting as a risk, namely that there is no business profit in the operation of a business. We therefore believe that the political response to this whole system is the whole set of measures that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u630	Mr President, just one word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u631	Here, just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u632	We're making an effort to reach agreement. We don't have a barren confrontation. It doesn't make any sense. Because you were not a Minister with full responsibility, nor in my speech today, nor in the previous days, nor tomorrow, will I lie with the Ministry, because many of what you said did not take place in the nine months before. You are now and we will respect you. However, we want a clear policy on the pricing criteria and the invoicing itself. If you see it again - perhaps you did it as far as I am concerned at the moment - your first arrangement with the latter is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u633	I've explained it to you, Mr. Loverdo. It's very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u634	I insist you see it again. I'll look into it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u635	Look at it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u636	But there is a limit, Mr President. I am the man who was hit most by the pharmaceutical industry, Minister, and I have an absolute conscience about what effort and trouble it takes to make a policy that reverses the terms of the 2004-2009 party. We had as much consumption as the European average until 2004 and then they got worse. There was no point in investing in equipment. It was a sign of playing with the drug. This is what happened in Greece. And corrections were made. There's been a fight. Now, here, if you are wrong - I stress and I stop - and you are not right and the regulation is voted on, first it will cause disastrous consequences to the Greek industry...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u637	Where does that come from, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u638	Secondly, after you have caused turmoil and negative consequences, you will lose the Council of State and the provision. To keep this from happening, we look too good and we see it again - a word. If you're here tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u639	I'll be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u640	As we are going to discuss an article, we would like to have the opportunity of a second dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u641	All right, we'll see it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u642	Take note, meanwhile, of your choice, whether you say 50% of off-patent or of the three lowest prices in the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u643	Whoever's smaller.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u644	Whoever it is. Whether or not your choice to talk about countries in the European Union and not in the Eurozone is conscious and has a positive effect, we believe the opposite. Look at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u645	I think there's no question anymore. Whatever else is there, we see it tomorrow. I would remind the House that the roll-call vote tabled by Members of the Communist Party of Greece will take place at 12 noon. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-15-S1-commons.u646	With the agreement of the House at 0.02 p.m. the sitting is closed for today Friday, October 16, 2015, at 10.00 p.m. on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and adoption of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Measures for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement.
