ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first question under number 203/24-11-2015 will be discussed in the context of the first cycle of Piraeus, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Helen Stamatakis, Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the housing of the Piraeus Court. Mrs Stamaki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you too, Minister, for being here to answer my question about the Piraeus Court. Minister, a permanent request of over 50 years of the legal world of the Municipality of Piraeus and all the institutions of the city is the housing of the judicial services - or most of them - in a modern and dignified building worthy of the history of the city. The solution proposed and chosen in the 1980s for the housing of the Court of First Instance, the Prosecutor's and the Appeals Court of Piraeus to be purchased by the Greek public seven-storey office building at the junction of Skuze and Philos was rough, without planning and was an emergency solution. The housing of the rest of the judicial services remained in public, old and completely inappropriate, office buildings - to many employees are private and private - for which EUR 1.134.00 per annum is paid by the State - that is, the State pays it - while they do not comply with minimum standards for courts in a modern Member State of the European Union. At times there have been many preconditions for the housing of Piraeus courts and among them the only Naval courts in Greece, most recently in 2013, the proposal to convert these buildings to the buildings, to the old kerani sanitariums in the Municipality of Nice. However, this building was considered inappropriate for the housing of the courts by decision of the Council of State. In addition to the above, this building was included in the twenty-eight public buildings sold by the GOI and re-paid by the State, for which it had been prosecuted against the members of the GOI and its advisers. Since from February 2015, the will of the Ministry of Justice has been transparent to solve the problem of the housing of the courts of Piraeus, which are currently owned by the Municipality of Piraeus in a very short time, at which point you propose, will have reached the metro and tram next to the historic Municipal Theatre, namely the incomplete mansion of the former schools of Ralion, which are today the property of the Municipality of Piraeus and for which the Municipality has accepted its use for courts, because there has been a discomfort with the citizens, the legal world and the institutions of Piraeus that the Ministry of Justice is late to deal with this burning issue, I ask you, Minister: Why do you not incorporate the task of completing the semi-finished complex into the public budget that his discussion begins tomorrow? What is the precise timetable for the implementation of the project for which a commitment has been made? And what does the Ministry intend to do so that the chronic problem will soon find its final solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mrs Stamatakis for the question. The problem has exactly as it has been stated. I have visited the building in which the Court of Piraeus operates today. It is really inappropriate, it has no emergency exit, it has only one exit, and that makes it particularly problematic in terms of its functioning, and it also causes great operational difficulties in the court. It's an old problem for Piraeus. The attempt to find emblematic solutions has not given rise to the creation, for example, of an exit of danger to the building and after some adventures in the search for another site, in the end all the bodies responsible, all the actors, all the actors and the Piraeus society, as it seems, and the Ministry of Justice agree that the most suitable area is the Rallios School, which has agreed to grant to use for this purpose the Municipal Council, belongs to the Municipality of Piraeus, in order for the courts to settle there. I have to tell you that there have been discussions with the Mayor of Piraeus and with the president of the Bar Association and with the judiciary and everyone agrees with that choice. So the only issues that remain, which are thorny, of course, are the issues of implementation. As far as the time is concerned, which will be judged once the work is started, as Mrs Stamatakis asks, I can say that it is estimated that intensive work since the start of the building can suffice two years, but this will be the minimum, which will be needed for the work in question and, of course, the main problem is the financing of the building. We have contacted both the finance ministers responsible, both with Mr Stathakis and Mr Spirtzis, because in his ministry the building infrastructure is now the public sector, which is involved in public infrastructure. They have promised that they will look into this matter very quickly. Perhaps within days I will have their answer. One option is to integrate the building into the ordinary budget. Another option is to join the PPP, i.e. public-private partnerships to finance buildings. Within the days I will have their answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Stamaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you have already mentioned the reasons why today's building is completely inappropriate to house the Piraeus courts. We must stress that every day from seven hundred to a thousand people, workers and citizens, they visit this building. So it is totally inappropriate, as there is no emergency exit and can no longer house the Piraeus courts. Indeed, there is a very good cooperation of the Ministry and the Secretary General of the Ministry of Justice has recently come down in the city of Piraeus last month and has spoken with the mayor, with the actors of the city, the district chief and the Bar Association. So some things have happened. I think you, too, have at some point visited the area of the new building in Piraeus. Going there the courts will help the city a lot, and once the tram and metro come there will also be decongestion in the city's traffic. In my view, therefore, the work should also be incorporated into the new budget with these interventions which you have also told us in the two other ministries. And we expect a first agreement to be signed between the Ministry of Justice, the Municipality of Piraeus and the rest of the institutions to launch the project. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u8	I will only need a half-minute, Mr President, to answer that there is no choice and no doubt about it. The building of Rallyio is what is appropriate and I hope that within the week that is running now, we can have some newer financial support for the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. We are going to the second with No 223/25-11-2015 top-level question of the first-round question of the Member of the Istanbul Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Karagounis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the rationalisation and operation of the country's unpaid mortgages. Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all, thank you for being here again. You have been honouring us since you came and answered Members' questions and that is very positive. You know that very well. I also had the opportunity to handle it when I was at the Ministry of Justice and in fact it is about ensuring workers in the unpaid mortgages. You know there's already a peculiar regime. The totalitarian map of the mortgages includes, as you know, three hundred ninety-four mortgages, of which seventeen are unpaid, the two hundred thirty-nine are especially unpaid and thirty-eight are not specially unpaid mortgages. There can be a lot of talk about how all these mortgages were created. But the question is that we have this objective reality. And since there has been a dramatic decline in the written acts in recent years - this is one side and means that revenue has been very much reduced - there is no guarantee that these workers in unpaid mortgages will be paid. The worst thing, of course, which we will analyse in dentistry, is that there is no legal status to ensure both their money and their jobs. Because that's the point. You know they're seven hundred sixty employees in the unpaid mortgages. I must inform you, Minister, although you are well aware of that, that 90% are also unpaid at the moment, they are also unpaid, but mainly work on part-time work. This is the general reality. It is worth mentioning that there is KHS 3748/2012, which confirms that employees in unpaid mortgages will be full-time, and at the moment, as I said before, 90% in fact works part-time anymore. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And there is a recent decision by the Council of State, number 2573/2015, which actually validates the previous joint ministerial decision and states that mortgages are public services and workers must be full-time in order to serve the public interest. As you can see, Minister, we have a certain reality. Right now, the workers are on the air. We have to see - and this is what I expect to hear from you, and of course we have a debate on this - how we can ensure jobs, but also people's employs, because they are now unpaid. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Karaguni, it is my honour to be here and answer your questions, much more that is documented and therefore difficult for me. I would like to say to you that I understand that I do not need to give you a account of the history of the country's unpaid mortgages, including by listing the legislation or legislation of the past. All of this is known to you. I think I should focus precisely on the points of the problems. Indeed, we have this problematic regime, where workers in unpaid mortgages are paid through paper and paper costs of the documents produced by the unpaid mortgages and have a serious problem, if the sums required cannot be covered because of a reduction in the number of contracts. I think that the attempt to deal with the problem, which has these great dimensions, can only be done in two phases. In a first phase, we will attempt to make some corrective moves, which will not leave aside nor the possibility of a merger of unpaid mortgages. Indeed, the working cycle has shrinked. There is, of course, an attempt to prepare the National Stock Exchange, which means that things will be different from the year 2020. It is a large number of mortgages and the operations, which are registered there, have been reduced. As of 2 June 2015, the Ministry decided by 44452 to set up a Special Committee to examine mergers of certain mortgages and property offices in the country. In addition, the bill, which was posted for consultation on the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, currently provides for the possibility of mergers of mortgages within the same primary district, in order to deal with the concerns and in the first instance to deal with the problem. Of course these are some of the first and the second responses. We need a radical reorganization. The Ministry of Justice proceeds with the setting up of a Special Legislative Committee that will see matters of the organization of the courts and of the mortgages and hopes in the coming months that the product of their work will have to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u14	Minister, with what you have said, I would like to say that you may have soared a little more the anxiety and concern for the workers, because you know that by the merger, not only will there be nothing, but I do not know if the revenues will actually come to cover the money, the salaries of officials. I think that's understandable. Minister, let me say that we need to look at finding a common reference. There are solutions. I would like to give you a little more details of the legal status, and what exactly is the responsibility of the mortgage guard at the moment to the worker? The legal regime is so peculiar that it is in no way guaranteed by the official of the unpaid mortgage to claim his wages and be paid every month, because most of them are part-time, as I have told you, but above all, to ensure his employment relationship. You know that in recent times some of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, Minister, have already been to the courts and have become judges. It is clear that the employees of these unpaid mortgages are, quasi, public servants under private law contracts of indefinite duration. This is the legal regime up - down. Minister, you will probably have the opportunity to discuss both the representatives of the workers and the mortgages in the common interest. I think that a solution could have been the movement of workers. The legal regime exists. It has happened in the past if I remember well with the officials of the "TRAM SA" who went to the courts, they took the positions of the judicial officers without actually having a legal problem. There are currently so many shortcomings in the courts. I think, because I know the workers in the mortgages, they're doing an excellent job. We could therefore, through this legal possibility of the law passed by the Ministry of Administrative Reform, transfer these officials to the courts so that a large gap can also be filled at the moment. To my previous question, if you remember, you have answered me about the application of the Code of Civil Procedure. So there are shortcomings and we could be able to transfer employees to another piece, so that we can have a better, I would say, service function, but also save a very important human resource that has special information. Without in any way wanting to judge the workers' cleaners from the Ministry of Finance, there is a specialization here. So why don't we look at an immediate solution likely? Because I am afraid, I have the impression that with what you are talking about in a merger and once the register is operational, until then, workers will continue unpaid in the unpaid mortgages and, above all, that they will have no guarantee of their employment relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Karagunis, it goes without saying that we will try to exploit all existing institutional opportunities so that we can solve the problem and, in particular, the payment of these people's employees. Of course, there is also a solution to mobility on the horizon. Here we appealed from the Ministry of Justice to the solution you mentioned, concerning the case of... I do not want to say 'clean', because a man does not get an ID for his whole life from the fact that in a short period of time his career he is going through a place. They were workers, who had all the legal qualifications, they had degrees, they were evaluated, they were successful and joined, as one could join with a first intake without having a previous experience of this workplace. We will not hesitate to see this institution, and in any case in the regulation we are preparing, we will also have the guarantee of the participation of interested parties, in order to expose, present their issues and help to form the text, but in any case to provide transitional arrangements for the outstanding issues that already exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. A Communication to Parliament: The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2016". The third with No 200/23-11-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, on the problem of the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to the Minister's obstruction and deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u19	Here you go, Mrs. Zarulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u20	I am unpleasant to denounce the practice of certain ministers in SYRIZA - ANEL. The point which was to raise today to the relevant ministers for health, Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis, concerns the dangerous practices in the dismantling of cytostatic medicines in public hospitals. In particular, it concerns the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki. While the Greek people believed that "the hope is coming", we are faced with a policy of leniently unacceptable that excludes a large portion of the Greek people, because ministers of your government refuse, he says, to discuss with offenders. Well, of course, you, as your Minister, Mr Panosis, has testified, are only talking with condemned terrorists and at the same time abolishing the presumption of innocence. They therefore need to respond to the parliamentary scrutiny of members of the People's League - Golden Dawn on the grounds that our party is under the responsibility of the criminal organisation. For this reason, I shall submit to the Minutes a letter from Mr Xanthos who has sent us in the past. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Eleni Zaroulia, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At this point, I should like to stress that we are wrongly and misleadingly saying that we are being accused of setting up a criminal organisation. This is not mentioned anywhere in the indictment. So your particular ministers are violating the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, they are illegal and unlucky at the expense of the Greek people, because we, the Members of the Golden Dawn, who have been elected by legal procedures...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u21	Who are you telling? The second pluralist person to address?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u22	Excuse me, I'm making a complaint right now. It's about a health issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u23	Yeah, where is the second pluralist person?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u24	I say that your ministers are violating Parliament's Rules of Procedure and illegally illegally, the particular ministers who are not coming to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u25	So you're addressing the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u26	I'm talking about these ministers. I've submitted the relevant...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u27	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u28	Wait a minute, I'll be done. My question is a matter of health. And it is an issue on which no one has the right, because of ideology or micropolitical, to ignore and refuse to respond to such a crucial issue. A government must be the government of all Greeks and must not promote dissatisfaction. Those who violate their duty, I leave them in the Greek people's judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. We are going through Mr Theochari's question. Where's Mr. Theocharis? He's not here? Mr. Theocharis was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u30	The Minister is here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u31	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u32	Wait, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u33	We continue with the second with No 224/25-11-2015 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolidas of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister of Health, on problems in the health structures of the Prefecture of Argolida. Mr. Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister who is in the Chamber today for his reply. It shows that it honors parliamentary control, honors parliamentarians. The timely question we are discussing today, Minister, comes after five previous questions and a report from me on the same subject to you, which so far have been unanswered. I would not have tabled this timely question if the previous ones had been answered. Even unanswered for you the demand that has been put together by the Municipal Council of Nafpliers and the institutions of the entire Argolida, a request I have made to you myself from the Step of the Parliament to hold a meeting with the participation of local community actors on flaming health issues in Argolida. I would therefore ask you, on this occasion, to respond positively to the meeting date as soon as possible, because, in addition to gathering a protest and highlighting all these problems, they were present from all the parties and representatives of the operators and the Municipality of Nafplies. Because, as I told you in plenary session, health does not have a color or rather only one color, the white one, the one on the doctor's shirt. As a doctor, you have served her, and I think that your sensitivity will also show her about the problems that exist in health structures and are facing the Hospital of Nafplio and Argos and the Health Centres of Kranidios, Lygurios and regional rural hospitals. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm ending. Besides, a minute of time you gave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u35	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. In my time - and I hope you will give it to me, because the bell is still ringing - I shall refer to some of these problems. As far as Argolida General Hospital is concerned, there are gaps in staff, for example cardiologists in the Nafplio Nursing Unit, which do not allow for the uninterrupted operation and regular planning of newspapers. These gaps are about to be increased by the planned retirement of doctors. In fact, in a relevant document the Medical Association of Argolidas identifies the needs that are as follows. At the Nafplio Nursing Unit at least one cardiologist - vacuum for which the Ministry has been informed since the end of August - an orthopedic, biopathologist, an anesthesiologist and two microbiologists. In the Nursing Unit of Argons two radiologists, a surgeon, a cardiologist, a gynaecologist, an obstetrician and a pathologist, while pensions are expected to be retired with that of the manager of CT, who in two months will withdraw, than I have been informed, because of retirement. As far as nursing and paramedical staff are concerned, they need at least twenty people in total for the General Hospital of Argolida. I would point out here that there is no single position, Mr Minister, on Argolida. As things stand today, doctors and nurses move from health centers and from hospital to other, often in cities outside Argolida, such as Corinth or Sparta, to cover gaps, while the MAC has left without doctors and neither the pediatric clinic is working, resulting in newborns and older children going to other prefectures for health problems that could be dealt with on the ground. I would also like to point out the extremely urgent document from the competent director of the Nafplio Nursing Unit, which mentions the insufficient appropriations available to many OEMs of major importance for the operation of the hospital. I am very pleased to say that the appropriations are down by 19% compared with last year. The grants came in July, resulting in increased due amount, which created problems in material supplies and in the provision of services.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Andriane, you'll have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u38	Of course, I will conclude, Mr President. In my dentistry, I'm going to point out the rest. So I ask you, Minister, because the problems are huge and immediate, and the health of the Argolides and the visitors of Argolida are at risk of life, what are you going to do? I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u39	Minister, many years for your nominal holiday. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u40	My dear colleague, I think that at this time public health services and their problems really are reasonable to be discussed and controlled by parliamentarians and it is encouraging that they are also very active in local communities and citizens' representations, self-government actors, mayors, regional managers, etc. I think that this is a sign that society realises that it needs a coexistence to defend the functioning of the public health system, at a time when society has more than ever needed it. The image of the health system is not good, and we know it. Corresponding problems with what you set out in your question concerning the region of Argolida exist throughout the country. There are particularities in each area, and there are even more acute needs, which we are trying to deal with by design and, above all, by recruitment of permanent staff. You know very well that for the first time after six years we have promoted a first set of recruitments of nine hundred and eighty-five permanent staff. It is the 4K/2015 notice via SAEP. We hope that at the beginning of next year the selection process will be completed and that these people will be able to place themselves and fill a very small part, obviously, of the huge gaps that exist in the system. There is also a second set of two thousand four hundred forty-forty workers, including doctors - in the first notice there are no doctors - and these doctors who are about six hundred and another ninety - that is six hundred ninety, some seven hundred doctors' seats - we believe that we can slowly make a first, let us say, urgent coverage of the gaps. In your area, the image I have from the service is that they have been asked for the medium-term, that is to say, until the posts of permanent staff are filled. There are two cardiologist locations for Argos Hospital. They have committed credits from the hospital and we have also promoted their rapid coverage from the lists available per specialty and per U.S... I therefore believe that we will soon be able to cover these two positions in order to address this important gap, which exists. As far as Nafplio Hospital is concerned, a position of pathologist or general doctor and a position of radiologist for the Nafplio PAR has also been requested. In addition, two posts, one Pharmacopoeia Pharmacopoeia and one PD for the Nafplio Hospital have been announced in this notice. Furthermore, the appointment of permanent doctors of the ESS is pending from old crises of the previous four-five years and we have instructed to speed up this period in order to proceed with the appointment of two doctors for Nafplio, one cardiologist and one surgeon and three doctors for Argos, a pathologist, a nephelogue and a psychiatrist. These positions have been unresolved for many years. We are therefore working at this difficult time, with the limited human resources available to the system - and this is the mandate we have given to the administrations of the Ministry - to make the best possible and rational distribution of this human resource. We have ensured an increase in the country's spending limit for hospitals this year. The hospitals in your region were given an increase of EUR 500,000 in the current 2015 budget, which was reduced by approximately 30% compared with last year, than I have been informed. An increase of 250,000 euros was also provided for the Nafplio Hospital and another 250,000 euros for the Argos Hospital. A corresponding adjustment will also be made to the 2016 budget. We hope that this will be a year of stabilisation of the public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you can continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u42	I conclude by saying that what is important today is that there should be a reversal of the downward course for the health system. Then, what needs to be done is a serious design based on a critical tool that is missing, which is the health map, in order to see again how we will make better use of the infrastructure and the human resources available today, by disseminating them best into the health system. I have contacted the Management of the 6th HR, which is planning an open debate with the social, political and self-government actors in the region on this matter. The commitment is that in the next period this meeting will be organised. With regard to the mid-term, and so that there is obviously no criticism that the Ministry is deaf or refuseing to come into contact with the demands and needs of the institutions, we can schedule a meeting, if you like, of this most official meeting that the Ministry will do in order to listen to the people working in the hospital, the medical service, the unions of the workers, have a first imprint of the immediate needs and then see how we can gradually meet them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Andriane, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will start with a positive event. I would point out that it is indeed necessary for this meeting which you said to be held immediately, and I see that there is an intention since you officially say so from the Stephen of this House. I therefore believe that you, your Office, should immediately inform everyone who has expressed interest and all the Members of all three parties in Argolida, but also the bodies, mayors, hospital administration and workers who are really making superhuman efforts to cover all these gaps and needs. I also want to say that there are failures. I asked you one question, which was answered by another ministry as a co-rapporteur. Nafplio's nursing unit lost 1.340,000 euros, a sum from the NSRF for modernization and medical equipment. In other words, it provided for a surgical room, laparoscopic endoscopics, surgical tools and, unfortunately, the end date of July 31, 2015, expired. I would also like to point out to you the huge problems that exist in the EAW. Right now, usually at noon and afternoon, there's an ambulance, a crew for the entire prefecture. You understand that when you need to go to an event, there is no second one and often asked for another county, but often there is not even a border county. In other words, the need is enormous. There are deficiencies in staff and drivers. So the Lyurium doesn't have any drivers. The skull has cars, but it doesn't have any drivers. In fact, the Skunk also serves Spetses. It is a big problem, due to the distance from Nafplion. So I think you should take all these facts into account. There's on-calls, there's overtime for the EKP workers who haven't been paid yet. In other words, they remain offshore for three months of 2014 and for the whole of 2015, as far as I'm concerned. I invite you to see it. I therefore believe that you intend to help resolve these problems, and I would point out to you the urgency of the problem. They must be solved immediately, as the life and health of the local people and also of the numerous visitors, particularly during the tourist season, are endangered. I therefore call on you to take appropriate action and, as you have said, work together with the actors in local society. After all, health is an issue on which we can and must unite forces, regardless of our individual political differences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to submit to you for the Minutes, in order to help you in your work, the letter from the Medical Association of Argolidas that highlights the needs, the letter of the Mayor of Nafplios on the situation in the Hospital of Nafplio, which you know, the letter of the Mayor of Kranidios about the problems that exist at the Health Center of Kranidios. I will also present an excerpt of practices from the meeting of 28 September 2015 of the City Council of Epidaurus, where there is the doctor of the Health Center reports that “courts or workers from their pocket money for bandages, whiteplasts, syringes and others”.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u45	Check it out, Mr. Andriane.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u46	I think that all of this is not honoring any of us. I believe, Minister, that with your presence here you also indicate your interest in Argolida, as in all of Greece. You need to take the necessary measures to solve these urgent problems, because here we are dealing with lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u48	I don't want to say a lot of things. I agree with the need for this period to be given particular importance to dealing with the problems of the public health system. The government is a crucial political priority. It will also be reflected in the budget, which we will be discussing in the next few days, that is, in indicators and in the estimates. There will be a significant increase in the expenditure limit for the public health system within 2016. I believe that this will normalise the supply of hospitals, which were indeed problematic during this year, and that hospitals will also be able to increase the transfers from the EEA to the public health system to cover gaps with subsidiary staff, but at the same time move on to these packages that I have told you of recruitment with permanent staff. We believe that, after a difficult year that was in 2015 for public care in our country, in 2016 there will be a significant improvement in the everyday life of both workers in the system and above all citizens - that is what we are most interested in - in public hospitals, but also in the area of primary care, where we will be able very soon to announce a plan for the reorganisation of current public primary care structures and a plan for reorganisation and reform in this area, which has been pending for many years. We are open to dialogue with local communities, and above all with the workers, who are really at this time with an excess of soul, under adverse conditions, under very important and labour pressure wage cuts, I think they are really exaggerating themselves and keeping the health system up. We want to be okay with the state's obligations towards them. We have made a great deal of progress in the repayment of debts for accrued debts. There are differences from SG&A to SG&A. However, the money from the Ministry has been given to cover the first nine months of 2015 and in December we will also seek to pay the next two months, i.e. October and November. We believe that there will be a normality in the next period for the health system and for public care in our country, just as we have said before, which is what society needs, which is in need of health and humanitarian crisis, which is borne by the health system of people and the insurers, which will facilitate their access to it and also by the strong refugee current.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, just a minute. I would like to make a point which will help, because I see the good will of the Minister. You should also bear in mind - I have not had time to deal with this because of the short time available to me - that the ambulances - and I think other colleagues have taken it to you - are in a bad state. They have over one million or seven hundred - eight hundred thousand kilometers and it's their condition...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u50	That's all at the meeting, Mr. Andriane, so that the meeting can have something as an object.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u51	Wait a minute, Mr President, this is very important. Many times hospital cleaning contractors, health centers, do not pay and leave feminine workers. Look at that, Minister, and this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u52	I'll answer you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth question under number 209/24-11-2015, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of ergonomic cleaners at the Children's Hospital "Sacred Sunday" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the relevant Ministers and deleted. The first under number 204/24-11-2015, a topical question by Dramas Christos Karagiannidis, about the hostage of hundreds of thousands of insured insurance companies "SPAIN AEGA" and "COMMERCIAL VALUE SA" will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. Also, the fourth question under number 210/24-11-2015, the second question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the need to find a building for the housing of the Municipal School of Kontokali Corfu, will not be discussed due to lack of competence and deleted. The sixth will now be discussed under number 194/24-11-2015, a top-stage question by MP 2 Athens, Potamios Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, on increasing traffic charges and the financial burden of the taxpayers of the country. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President, and thank the Minister for coming to answer my question. If my memory doesn't cheat on me on 19 November when I made the proposal, he was present. Changes have been made in recent years, so that traffic charges are increased by around 13,000 euros. The Minister said that within this procedure he would also make a rationalisation of fees. Of course, what we have seen in practice is that many more are those who pay higher fees than they were last year than those who lighten up. In any case, I would like to focus on a specific issue - unless it also has the opportunity to tell me about the note I made about what is being released and their first release was in countries of the European Union - and if it was able to give a solution to this. The essence of my question is for Eurovignette, a system which can give a solution to the problem that the road hauliers of our country currently have. Minister, there are two thousand Turkish trucks in our country every week. They're using almost free all our roads. Egnatia Street didn't have a toll until a certain time, and now it has the minimum toll to reach Igoumenitsa. They pay nothing for using our own infrastructure. When they go to Switzerland, when they go to the Netherlands, when they go to Germany and France, when they go to most European countries, they pay with the Eurovignette European system. Thus, the Greek transporters are in an unfavourable situation compared with the Turks, who, with the help of German capital, have become the most powerful transport force in the European area. Secondly, there are two and a half thousand trucks entering ships every week. And these are foreign trucks that should pay something for the use of the Greek road network. Finally, there are sixty thousand trucks with Bulgarian and Romanian plates, which belong to Greek carriers. They win, they pay around 1350 to 1400 euros a year for everything, and the respective Greek carrier pays around 3000 to 3500 euros. In other words, the Greek transporter, who keeps the Greek signs from patriotism or stupidity - ultimately the Greek state tells him, "from stupid hold them" - is in a more unfavourable fate than the one who decides to carry and actually take the signs from another European country. We therefore believe that this tax - which one might say is also an increase in tax, but it is also a growth tax - can help through healthy competition the Greek transporter, the Greek patriot. Therefore, in view of the above, I would like to ask you: Have the services of the Ministry studied the existing in other European countries on Eurovignette? Are any relevant conclusions and comparative analysis of possible public revenues in relation to the current framework? Would you like to discuss, as the political leader of these services, the drafting of a conclusion, the presentation of proposals for the overall revision of the existing road charging framework, instead of the individual and case-by-case changes that have taken place so far concerning the planned traffic charges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u55	Minister Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, you do not need to thank our presence here, it is a self-evident obligation for the ministers - and that is what I do at any time with a question - to answer and inform the House within the framework of the functioning of the parliamentary system. It goes without saying, of course, that it is not what you have suggested in what you said, namely that there is a reasonable continuity and a reasonable function in what is being done in our tax system, because at the time of the traffic charge, as you know from your term of office in the Ministry of Finance, we unfortunately have a copy of this absurdity. There are cars of the same type, in which, because they were released on a different date, we have other traffic charges, or we have traffic charges in cars which correspond annually to 1/3 of their value. This general irrationality will be addressed, but not all can be done together. We're on our way, we've taken a first step with this year's. Now, as far as your question is concerned, first of all, what you said they pay nothing, the traffic charges for foreign trucks from 1-1 to 2012 amount to EUR 100 for each trip, unless otherwise specified by our country's special contracts with other states. But here, it is a competence that is not the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks is responsible for concluding transport agreements with relevant ministries of other States. So we're just taking over the cash process. On the basis of this agreement between Greece and other countries, licences shall be exchanged either incompletely or on payment of fees, or in specific cases, transfers shall be made without a licence form. Foreign trucks equipped with an incomplete transit permit shall not pay traffic charges. As regards passenger cars carrying a temporary driving licence of another country, the travel fees provided for by the provisions on travel as from the day on which they were placed under the temporary importation procedure shall be paid. For passenger vehicles carrying a valid driving licence for a normal series of other countries and at the end of the initial six-month period shall not be re-exported, the traffic fees provided for in the provisions for the period running beyond the original semester shall be paid. These are the provisions that apply. Of course, they are chaotic and so as not to delay this House and not to 'eat' my time, I have brought all the relevant suggestions and tabled them in the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned suggestions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In my dentistry, I will say the rest in relation to what you say your question. With regard to Directive 1999/62 on Eurovignette, you mentioned already the Greek legal system with Law No 3986/2011, it forms part of the national legal framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Xanthi High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm a little confused. I don't know. You've also confused Mr. Dane, I hear he's resigned from the ILO. Anyway, I'm a little confused. You put all the provisions in place, but I still don't understand what your intentions are. I ask you, in essence, the question, and I would like you to answer it in substance. Eurovignette may have been incorporated into Greek law, but has not been activated. So what matters is that it does not exist in practice, that it is embedded how much we care about it though it is a happy first step. It has to be activated, a study of eco-technics must be carried out, which says, for example, as I originally propose to give you first aid: put EUR 50 very little over a week, so that these two thousand trucks coming from Turkey give us EUR 50 each, so you will get EUR 100,000 a week and about EUR 6.5 million a year. But so much you will get from the ones that go a little further through the ships, so a total of 15 million. And if you put 2,000 euros a year in trucks with Bulgarian or Romanian plates and practically all year round, you'll practically get another 120 million. There are equivalents over there. There are equivalents that are not to destroy breweries, it is not to dismantle wine growers, it is not to get back, trying to correct my mistakes, VAT on education, and put 300 million into the gambling of the OPAP, without taking the tax on illegal gambling and finally "go for wool and get paid", because the OPAP will now come and can take us 1 billion. And from there, where they owed us, "we'll get the ox" and run along with the 4 billion we're looking for, equivalent to the pensions of the S.H.E., to find another billion to look for equivalents from the OPAP. So what I'm saying to you is this: you can make millions and you can at the same time stop the Bulgarian, who comes, sells free in the coastal economy of firewood across northern Greece, emptys and then sits down and scrubbs all over the ground and looks for fields to get chestnuts, watermelons or I don't know what else to fill and leave again illegal. And he's doing it for free. Or he'll sit down and pay, there's even a little stimulus to leave, get rid of where he came from, or if he sits, at least collect something as a state. So that's what we're asking, we're going to get a class, we're finally getting the country on its feet. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. If I understood well from what you said to me, the issue relating to the cars registered in the European Union, which had been solved and I think it was taken back, you have not solved it. Please look at it, if you will also find a solution to these Greeks, who took a car to the European Union, brought it five to ten years later, it is an old car, and because they brought it ten years later, it suddenly reborn and become a one-year car and counts the shortest from the start, so they pay great traffic charges. It is a particular category of our fellow human beings, however, who have a real problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u60	I fully understand your anxiety to try to prove that everything in the Ministry of Finance and all in the Greek state began to collapse and become barbaric, destructive and unfair since February 2015. Fortunately, however, beyond what we say in here, the Greek people have a crisis and a memory and they know. As far as I am concerned, and as far as you are concerned, I accept the invitation, but I think that the Bureau will object to extending all of this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u61	I talked about the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u62	With regard to the resignation of Mr Dankert, which you said, I will speak as soon as I receive it in my office because nothing has been reached in my office so far. You know, the Minister responsible on the basis of the Constitution and based on the programming statements is me for the ILO. Nothing's come to my office. And I'm being informed online. When the resignation comes, of course, to answer and see the reasons for the resignation to understand exactly what has happened. As far as your reference to the study and what we are planning is concerned, I do not want to repeat the same things all the time. At the Ministry of Finance at this time we are trying to meet the current obligations and thank God we are responding, as the figures show. We are trying to respond to the issues of the prerequisites and, as is apparent from the course of implementation, we are responding and going to overthrow the whole tax system and bring about a fair and proportionate tax system and a tax reform that responds to the problems of society. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u63	Do it, do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u64	...but say it every time in every question, in every bill? In this context we will also review the logic of car taxation, traffic charges, where we will have to deal with problems, excesses, imbalances and balance things in European countries' standards. There we will see all these issues, as I have told you in the past about the issues of copyright in imported cars and on a number of other issues. Now, with regard to lorries from Turkey, I told you before - you will see it too - that the Directorate-General for Customs, which comes under the independent Secretariat-General for Public Income, says: 'In accordance with Article 35 of the Act. 3986 the traffic charges of foreign trucks from 1-1-2012 shall be EUR 100 for each trip, unless otherwise specified in the special contracts.’ And as I said, it is not the Ministry of Finance that is responsible for these agreements, it is the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. I would like to reply to all the questions, but it will also be a little ironic and disrespectful to other ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u65	Ask the Minister next to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u66	I have no problem answering for everything, we just have to respect here the roles that the state has given us. With regard to what you said, and to your question: E, we did not put traffic charges first in 2015. We had traffic charges and previous years in the Ministry of Finance, and we cannot say that their distribution is more fair, because as we have explained and said, for cars by 2006, which are supposedly the mass of the Greek people, and those that have supposedly not been able to change and cannot take new cars, the evidence we have provided shows that the number of cars that have been reduced by the cars that have been increased is greater. What is certain is that medium-sized cars - and this is a major category - have no reductions or any increase. It's the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u67	How much do they have and how much do they have to increase?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u68	In cars after 2006, which are on the basis of emissions of pollutants from 1-11-2010, there is, of course, increases - not to the very small ones, from a limit and above - and you of course have a political disagreement. And we didn't hide anything. The rapporteur's report shows exactly what will happen. Be sure, however, and do not worry, the Ministry of Finance is anxious and has the effect of responding to the current problems and planning for the major changes that are coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We now go to the third number 186/20-11-2015 topical question of the second question of the MEP of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the timetable for the implementation of the work of the "Patra - Tower" motorway at the, Elias Law. Please, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. The Patras - Tower motorway, Mr President, since we are from the same region, does not concern the Ilias county, it is all about western Greece and it is part of a large axis, which we aspire to provide development in a degraded area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u71	And then what about the bridge?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u72	Unfortunately, the government, Mr President, just before the closing date for the submission of tenders, on 31 March, cancelled this tender. We then denounced this criminal act and attempted by the government, through Mr Spirtzi, here in the House, to give us answers, but which were illusory and misleading. And Mr Spirtzis, in his attempt to blunt the reactions, pledged here that he would re-publish parts of the project, i.e. go to partition - you know what partition - at the end of June, early July. He has said it here, I have the Minutes. We are now at the end of the year and not just having auctioned anything, but it has led us to point zero. What did the government do? Reintroduced the project, with the same amount and number that we had written in October 2014, when the tender decision came up. I mean, he turned us back a year. And with his decision, a few days ago, on November 11, he hired a consultant and gave him a five-month deadline to bring studies, when there was a contractual obligation for the concessionaire to deliver the studies, when there have been expropriations, when much of the work, the technical, 30% has been done. So we now demand that Mr Spirtzi, to the extent that he can be trustworthy, give us a commitment when the work will be auctioned and if we finally have a motorway. Why do you realise, ladies and gentlemen, that the auctioning of various sections of the project is not a highway, it is part of the streets, which I do not know will ever be connected to and become a motorway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u74	I, Mr President, take the best opportunity to say that the Members of the House of Commons are concerned about whether it will become a highway. We're committed to making the highway. Politics, for all the rest, said by Mr Koutsoukos, we disagree and have repeatedly explained to Parliament and public opinion to the actors in the region, not only in Elias but in general in the region, what our policy is. Obviously, once again, we are not talking about partitioning the project, but about partial tendering. We do not understand why 80% and over the projects of the Ministry and the supervised entities only have six contractors. So this has nothing to do with partition. Others took part in the past, and it's where it's supposed to be. We are talking about a partial auction, so that there are no misunderstandings and impressions. The second is that the timeframe set by the previous government, which also made the revision of the concession, which was reduced, i.e. that it took out this piece of work from the concession of the Olympian road, provided that this part would end at the end of 2016. In other words, he gave fictional timelines, such as the fictitious timetable for Corinth - Patras, the Olympian road, for the main part of the project, which had to complete its work this year in December. I am saying this because, obviously, Mr Koutsoukos knows that on 12 October, by decision of the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, we had amended the special provision of the CSCE 071 and had to come out for the competitions to proceed. I have a reply from the Service. I'll give it to you, Mr. MEP, to be in everyone's knowledge. The first part of the project and what we are looking after is not to be out of time in what we are committed to, will come out on the first fortnight of December. What we are pressing the services is for two competitions to come out, two of the sections of the Patras to Tower project, within December. For Parliament's information, I would like to mention that the first section is a budget of EUR 67,200,000 with VAT and includes the construction from the kilometre position plus 66, is 360 to 74 plus 500, a length of 8,14 km... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will be a minute. I'm saying this so that Mr. Koutsoukos knows what's going to be auctioned. ...formed by new engraving, with a section of a total width of 21,30 meters. It is planned to build an unequal node - tower. It is planned to build new and upgraded sideways and vertical roads of approximately 11 km overall length and accompanying river drainage, drainage, marking works, insurance, convoys, large and small roads such as bridges, upper and lower roads, walls, etc., environmental projects, roads, telephony, irrigation networks, fire extinguishing, etc. and green labour. Temporary road variations and traffic regulations during construction of the works. Inside the optional projects we are all set and will be included in the declaration as optional to carry out rebuilding work on the existing new Patras-Tyrgos National Road, about eight kilometres long from the Pyrgos node to Ancient Olympia, a budget of 3,400,000 euros with VAT. And for the evolution of the tendering books - so that you do not have a question for the consultant who was taken - it is that the declaration, the detailed budget - which we did not have a detailed budget with the previous system - the study invoice and the technical description - has been completed. It is under way that the specific conditions and technical specifications, which will be completed this week, can normally be opened in the first fortnight of December, the first or even the second part of which we want to prevent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you should be aware that here, in this Chamber, at the end of 2013, there was a great political battle when Mr Chrysochide brought the revised conventions of the motorways, where the Patras - Tower - Chacona was disqualified for unfortunate manipulations made by the previous political leadership. And we fought politically - and I put my head on the dorva, and I said 'I do not vote on the motorways' and other colleagues from Elias and from Messinia - and Mr Chrysochoidis included in the n. 4219 Article 5, which provides for the development of the Patras - Tower - Tsakona motorway and provided for a schedule for the auctioning of the Patras - Tower road, provided for the improvement of the tower road - Good Water - because Kaiaphas mediated - and how the rest of the work will be carried out to the Chacona. Also, in his honor he did the road, and you came and canceled it with these excuses that I said were lame. And while in this Chamber you were committed to proclaiming a department in June, at the end of July, you are coming and now tell us that you are ready to proclaim a department now, in a few days' time. Let's believe you! And here we come well - don't leave a peak again - because this is the work of the MP, and much more when he has connected his route to this road, which never knows what will happen to him when he's been spent so many times a week. In order to be fully informed. So I say, Minister, that you will be auctioned to go from one village to another village. What should we do with it? Roads to go to the villages we have. Perspective of implementing the Patras - Tower motorway can you give us it? Because you also made a reference to the wrong timetables. The timetables are provided for in the contracts and you are the Minister responsible for keeping the timetables. And if there's a breach of time schedules, you can take action. So don't look for any excuses. Take your responsibilities, but above all say here to the House, so that the citizens of Elijah and Western Greece can hear if they ever have a motorway. And if you want, tell us what will happen with the rest of the road, so that we don't have a blind road that will reach the Tower and have no prospects. That is the question we want concrete answers and if you have them to give us, I repeat, in the good faith that this tender will proceed. Because as I read the decision to hire a consultant, I'm very afraid that you're retreating the auctions into dashing procedures that can be taken to the bells. And because we have very bitter experience of partitioning - because partition is, do not play with words - works that did not lead to complete works, we fear and express these fears. You can entertain them and give them very clear assurances, because the citizens of Elijah will be there, Minister. You, like 10 other ministers who have been through since 2007 living in this region, somewhere else you will be - I mean political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Kutsuko, I kindly answered you. I didn't leave any peaks. I personally have been informed of what has happened in the previous negotiations and I accept them. I am not in any way questioning the struggle you have given for the completion of this project. I doubt, however, that what was provided for in the previous conventions and in the review of the motorway were things that could be implemented and were not just declarations by the previous government. That's what I'm questioning with regard to the timetables. Because if the timetables were to be honest, it would mean that the total of the five motorways which took place and were to be revised would be completed in December. And there are a lot of projects from these highways, which are not able to be completed, that takes about two years to complete them. One is that. The second is that a project and I am talking about this Patras tower, in which there are no implementation studies, there are no elements and budgets, I really do not understand how this work would be auctioned. You are aware of the competitive procedure that the previous government, Mr Samaras' government, had invoked, for these reasons, because not all the tenderers had these figures, not all the measurements for all the quantities for the whole project, there were no studies received from the auction. So that's right, we've got a consultant to have the same right to information about the project, a detailed budget, a technical description of all the departments of the project all the contestants. And with regard to whether we have been delayed, as you remember, even if the tender was made in July, September, October, as we were committed, because I refuse what I had committed - firstly, it could not have been done if the decision of the Ministry of Economy did not come out, you know it - but even if it had come out earlier, the tender would have been completed again at the beginning of the new year, where we would have the final accession and not the temporary one we have done, of the new projects in the ETUC, in the new ESDP. And you know that. Because otherwise the previous government would have taken out the project in 2014. It could not come out because we had over-covered the resources from the NRP in road projects and we had over-covered, as you remember, I had answered you back then - and in the new NRP, in the ETRP, for road projects. We therefore have no delay in the competitive process. What I want to commit is that the work will be done in its entirety. The first part of the project starts from the Tower to Patras and is not a way to connect the villages, it is the first part of the Patras - Tower project, i.e. the continuation of the motorway that will be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. We go to the fourth with No. 182/20-11-2015 timely question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the lifting of the distance of twenty kilometers for the free transfer of students of the day-to-day and seasonal PAALs. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister, for coming. My timely question has gone through many streets. Even the Patras tower road to get here! He took a month and went to the Minister of Education, then he couldn't have been the minister responsible. Thank you really, although it could have been much faster to answer this timely question. Either way, it is a matter which I think is central to your interest and interest in everyone and concerns the students of the PSAs, the dailys and the summers of high school. These people have a limitation - and you know it very well - the limitation of twenty kilometers to go from their area where there is an ESA. You know again that in the province especially this restriction has a problem, because in most regions the ESDPs are in the centre of the prefecture and there are long distances. In fact, there is a special category of those people who go to both daily and evenings. For music schools there was care in September and there was a lift for twenty kilometers, probably because they would count - and well count - to the Ministry of Finance that these students are not the great mass of students going to music schools. However, it is apparent from the research that has been carried out and from the effort we have made with several children across Greece that this figure does not change the budget too much, and it actually gives an opportunity to a special category of people who work, who have enough problems to go to the PES and especially to the sparsely populated areas, so that at least this route can be subsidized over 20 km. We are now talking, Minister, for very short distances, not to exceed four to five kilometres, because as the ESAs are distributed to every county, I do not think they will go beyond these distances. I believe and hope that if you have done a good record with the help of secondary education across Greece and the services of the Ministry of Education, you will have come to the conclusion that the funds are too small and we could help and support this category of students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u81	Come on, Minister. On the straight road!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, there is no doubt that the issue you raise, the issue of transport and the pupils of the ESDP, without restrictions on their schools, is particularly important. At the same time, how these students are treated to date is an injustice against them. In fact, I would say that the important dimension of the issue is that it is being done within a very short period of time by a Member of the Arcadia Parliament with the same subject, which means that, in particular, the region - not so much urban centres - and in particular regions and counties such as that of Arcadia, are facing very sharply this important issue you are saying, namely that there is an unfair exception for PES students from being able to move. Their transport to their school must be covered in any case, whether it is more than twenty kilometres, or by public service, rather than otherwise. I would therefore say to you that we are very sensitive and careful in this matter in order to bring about rationalisation in addition to everything else and to apply the same to these children as to other pupils. Nowadays, there has been an approach and debate with the Ministry of Education to give us the information, talking to the pan-Hellenic dimension, to see the economic side, although it is not the only or the main side that we have to face. I assure you that in any case I think that very soon - I have this hope and expectation, and that is what we are trying to do, it is our priority - that the opportunity be given for the transfer of both ESDP students.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u84	I told you at the beginning of my question that this question was passed by Patras - Tower. I really believe that all my fellow Members - and there is nothing wrong with what I am about to say - want to deal with the problems that exist in every county, and quite rightly my colleagues are asking questions. I just wanted to tell you that I have tabled this question a month ago, Mr President. And it is right that it came to me, because the problem is not who will be asking the question first, but that the answer is correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u85	Slowly late than never!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u86	I agree! I want to tell you this, which I think is the essence: I understand that this is also an economic issue. That is why, from the positive response of these demands which we as 'transporters' have made to a request from people on a pan-Hellenic scale, unless the stimulus of this is from our region, I understand that it is not about too much people. From a consultation we have made and from the first samples we have - you will also have them in detail - we will be here again to ask you, we see that it is for a small number of students. And you know, although we say "students", you understand that at the PAAL, the summer high school, they are people of great age who work this morning and then try through this process to complete their studies. So we are waiting and I would only ask you for a timeline for these students to be informed, in which you think you could solve this problem with a KLA from what I understand - because there is no need for a legislative initiative - that problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u88	I think that the nature of today's exchange of views between us and the emphasis on the importance and political will to resolve the issue is seen by the debate and by the goodwill with which Mr Constantinople is dealing, because he is absolutely right in what he raises. What I can confirm, and I repeat, is this political will to move forward with the corresponding regulation. I would just like to say, because he hears us another world, that for the PSA students whose journey is up to 20 kilometers, the issue is broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u89	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u90	As the problem of their movements is solved by the same means.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u91	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u92	But in areas such as Arcadia, on the one hand, distances are longer and, on the other hand, transport by same means is difficult. Therefore, it needs to be done by means of a public contract. I understand that. We put the problem on its real dimension and you do well to touch it right now. In fact, I would say, in conclusion, in view of the mood and intention of dealing with the issue, that we could work together and see some concrete elements further on the case of the county, which you are addressing and then be able to generalise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. At this point, with your consent, we will interrupt the sitting and come back at 6 p.m. with legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you. The sitting is suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u94	Repeated adjournment. As I see the image and without counting, ladies and gentlemen, there is a quorum. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food 'Bossible lands of Greece and other provisions'. Depending on how many of you will sign up for the debate of today's bill, we will see and when we will end. I think, however, that by 12 this evening, the list could have been exhausted, if not earlier. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 26-11-2015 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. The articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed at tomorrow morning's sitting as one section and the vote will follow. According to the papers that have come from the parties, Parliamentary Representatives for the debate of today's bill are the following: From SYRIZA Mr. Socrates Famelos, from New Democracy Mr. Kasapidis, from the Golden Dawn Mr. Panagiotaros, from the Democratic Compact Mr. Theocharopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs. Diamanto Manolakos, from Potami Mr. Spyros Dannelis, from ANELs Mr. Thanasis Papachristopoulos and from the Union of Kentrons Mr. Rapporteurs are defined as follows: By SYRIZA Mr Stavros Arahovitis, from New Democracy, from the Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michos, from the Democratic Consortium Mr.Michalis Geflos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nicholaos Moraitis, from Potami, Mrs.Akaterini Markos, from the Golden Dawn Mr.Georgios Lazaridis and from the Association of Centres Mr. Anastasios Megalamoustakas. Minister, according to the above, do you want the rapporteurs and special speakers to speak first and then you or you want to speak first?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, of course we will listen first to the rapporteurs and then we will of course speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u96	Okay, thank you very much. So we shall begin with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Stavros Arahovitis, who has the floor for 15 minutes. If we keep up with the times, I think you'll all have spoken by 12. Now the system's going to be opened, so the recordings can start. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law 'Bossible land and other provisions' is now introduced in plenary session, after a creative consultation, in the Committee on Production and Trade, with the scientific community and stakeholders. A number of improvements have therefore been incorporated in order to better serve the aims of the draft law, to ensure the public interest and to render the spirit of the legislator, taking into account several of the objections, observations and suggestions raised during the drafting of the committee. The aims of this draft law may be as follows. The first objective is to support livestock farming and, above all, extensive farming. The second objective is the rational management, exploitation, distribution and protection of the grazing land available to the country. The third objective is clear and scientifically correct definition of the concept of grazing land. The fourth objective is to protect forest land, biodiversity and soil sustainability. The fifth objective is to avoid further fines and charges from the historically bad and fragmented distribution of pastures. The purpose of the sixth is to defend the public interest, including all the parameters surrounding the concept of a public interest. The purpose of the seventh - and last - is to rationalise a number of distortions and to resolve malfunctions, as included in Chapter II with other regulations. Starting with the debate in plenary, it is essential to make an approach to the existing situation in the livestock sector as it has been so far. Our country now produces only 65% of its meat requirements and about 70% of its domestic milk requirements. The country spends on importing meat of EUR 1,001 million, while the amount of EUR 841 million is being imported. The amount of EUR 401 million per year is also spent on importing feed. Another interesting element is the production of the main product of animal production, feta. According to the information available, the production of feta has collapsed to just seventy-five thousand tonnes when world demand exceeds, according to estimates, five hundred thousand tonnes. From 2009 to 2013, statistical data are available - there is a 11% reduction in livestock units. Employment exclusively amounts to over fifty-four thousand people, while mixed farms still employ over forty-four thousand. If, therefore, those involved in the production of feed and the processing of animal products are added, the size and importance of the industry is understood. Finally, the most important factor in the cost of production of livestock products is animal feeding, where in our country up to 60% of the total cost of production. It is clear from the above that livestock farming, despite the problems it faces, is one of the major pillars of the national economy and can be a factor in the development of the country. This draft law, therefore, is de facto fulfilling the first of its aims, which is to support livestock farming. From the beginning of my position, I would like to clarify a number of issues that concern stakeholders. The first issue is about the "philology" that has been developed in connection with the linking of this draft law with this year's grants, that is, there is no grazing area, so farmers may lose aid. This misconception is deliberately cultivated in the livestock world, and things must finally be put into place. You are well aware that this year is the first year of the implementation of the new CAP to be implemented by 2020, where significant changes have been introduced, particularly with regard to pillar 1 on direct payments. You are also aware that the current government is also called upon to implement the previous decisions, both at European level, with the December 2013 agreement and the national choices that the previous government has rushed to legislate a few days before the national elections on 25 January. Greece has therefore chosen to apply the basic aid scheme at regional level by allocating these appropriations to three regions, one of which is the IP1 of pastures, with 25% of the national ceiling on basic aid. Therefore, the money to be given to farmers each year is 25% of the national basic payment threshold, namely EUR 293 million. As much as the areas of pasture increase these are the money to be shared, based on the value of the rights held by a farmer in 2014. The option that has been made is the gradual convergence of the value of rights, that is to say, all individual rights have the same value within the same region and are close to the average of each region. And since the regional average is obtained by dividing the ceiling on the basic payment of the pasture area, i.e. EUR 293 million, by means of the total eligible area for all pastures, very simple, the smaller the area of eligible pasture area will be the region's average. This practically means that convergence will take place at a much lower value, if there were more available areas and always, since we have to talk about an average, some will be above it, so they will have to convene down and some will be below it, so they will have to convene up. Being all above or below the average is simply impossible and numerically and logically. Finally, it was conscious of the choice not to strengthen production, but the occupation of land, whether grazed or cultivated, because it was preferred not to collide with established interests in the rural area, but to perpetuate a situation that does not support young people who want to deal with primary production but also those who actually produce it. And, of course, no action has been taken to prepare for the implementation of the new CAP in good time, but there have been a number of loose ends which should have been resolved in a few months by the new government in order to smoothly develop the first year of implementation of the new CAP, which has an impact on farmers' subsidies by 2020. The second question concerns the allegation that there has already been a relevant legal framework, meaning that there is no question of it. Date of birth: 4 April 2014. Let us make this clear: on grazing land in this law there is only one article. Therefore, the legal framework in which reference is made is only an article in the law as a whole. The question, of course, is. Why is this legal framework not enough to solve the major problems facing the draft law? First of all, we must admit that this was a positive start after years of inertia and fines have been imposed. But his inadequacy and his partiality in dealing with the multi-faceted issues of grazing land have made it inadequate. The pressure under which this article was drawn up has also made it inappropriate and inappropriate. Another issue we have to clarify from the outset is that of the resources that will be needed in order to draw up the management plans for grazing. The resources will be found both by the participation of farmers as a contributory element for the use of grazing land and by the participation of the Agricultural and Cattle Fund as well as of the ESDP programmes. The participation of farmers in the municipalities for the use of pastures was institutionalised and through the n. 4264 the concept of 'efficiency', i.e. a fee for the protection and improvement of pastures and for the creation of support infrastructures. Ladies and gentlemen, the rational use and management of grazing land, which is the most important natural land resource in the country and a significant source of economic feed, can make a decisive contribution to reducing farming costs, thus reducing production costs. In addition to farming costs, direct grazing of natural pasture improves both animal hygiene and tasty characteristics of products produced, mainly milk. The feta as a product of protected designation of origin and all Greek cheeses of protected geographical indication are based on their claim of protection both in their way of production and in their breeding area, with the particular biodiversity of herbs and county. This is the main reason for increasing their added value and their positive response to the consumer. Animal genetic capital, intrinsically linked to local environmental and vegetation conditions, is an integral part of the ecosystem and should therefore not be seen in fragmentary or competitive manner. The long history of shepherding extensive ovine and caprine animals and the meat-producing free grazing are a link to the Mediterranean ecosystem, which includes the natural grazing land of the definition of this draft law. Many of the problems that this ecosystem is facing today are due to poor, irresponsible management and exploitation of grazing land. Both overcrowding and subsistence, however, have created serious issues of damage to land, as regards biodiversity and sustainability. The ineffective use of the country's grazing land so far is mainly due to the lack of mapping, demarcation and evaluation and to the diversity of the property regime characterising these areas. The above factors lead to ineffective management and incomplete exploitation, since it is difficult - if not impossible - to manage and exploit areas that are not mapped and delimited. Moreover, as a result of the lack of management plans there is a serious lack of infrastructure such as access routes, water facilities and sedimentation. Thus, the implementation of the grazing management plans is fulfilled and the second objective of this draft law. The first article clearly defines the concept of 'casing land', taking into account both scientific views and the specificities of the Mediterranean ecosystem and local traditional grazing practices. The requirements of European regulations, as established by the new definition for pasture, are also taken into account. The third objective of this draft law is thus fulfilled. The fourth objective of the draft law is to protect forest land, biodiversity and soil sustainability. The use of grazing within these areas protected by forestry legislation may be authorised provided that the natural equilibrium, sustainability and the productive, protective and other functions whose protection and management is governed by the provisions of this Law and forestry legislation are not adversely affected. In the proposed draft law, therefore, they are codified in a single text and the provisions of Article 103 dd are improved. 86/69 and other articles and legislation, dealing with single problems and ambiguities observed in the past. From the management and disposal of grazings during the previous period, fines and charges amount to more than 400 million for the years 2010 to 2014 only. The fines come because the areas of pasture that were attributed to farmers were ‘parkled’ picturesque on the maps many kilometres away from the real pastures used by farmers. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Comrade, a warning was the bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. This mismatch has been identified by the Community's controls and fines have been imposed and the charges that the Greek people are now required to pay. The mapping introduced through the National Geographical Database now corresponds to the areas actually used by farmers with the mapping background, thus eliminating the risk of new fines. That is the fifth purpose of the draft law. Except for the purpose, it is the protection of the public interest. The public interest has many aspects and parameters. The public interest is to strengthen and protect livestock as an important sector of the national economy. It is the protection of forests and forest land. It is to preserve the sustainability and biodiversity of ecosystems. The public interest is also the protection of soil and water, surface and groundwater. In the public interest, it is also anti-nuclear protection by removing fuel produced in a potential grazing earth, but subjected to it. Of course, the public interest is to protect areas that have been burned or destroyed by any reason and are explicitly protected by the laws and the Constitution. Finally, with Chapter II, a number of issues and malfunctions arising from previous legislation are dealt with. But for the changes included in Chapter 2, I will speak in detail in my denology. Ladies and gentlemen, the final version of the draft law, I think it is falling all the initial reservations and I think that this can be accepted and accepted by this House. We are voting in favour of this bill and we call on all parties to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u100	Please come to Step by Mrs. Fotini Arabatzis. Until Mrs Arabatzi comes, I would like to say that after the end of the special speakers and the rapporteurs, since the Minister did not wish to speak at first, four - five colleagues will follow and then, if he wishes, the Minister. From now on I want to make an agreement with the parliamentary representatives that everyone will not come in bloc. Starting in turn, SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman will first speak with the New Democracy. After four colleagues a parliamentary representative will speak. Without asking you, I have your agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u101	We'll hear the Minister first, and then we'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u102	I said the Minister will speak first, Mrs Manolakou. You didn't hear me. I said that four colleagues will speak, then the Minister and then the Parliamentary Minister, but not the en bloc. After four colleagues have spoken, a parliamentary will follow. So Mrs Manolakou agrees. My proposal was therefore unanimously accepted. Here, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, if you have goodness in relation to the series of amendments, I would like to ask you. Will they show up?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u104	The amendments will be discussed tomorrow in the debate on the articles. I said it at first, you weren't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u105	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u106	You have the floor, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the truth is that you had prepared us during the meetings of the committee that we were going to see many ministerial amendments in this bill but such a 'project - raven' or imagined. Fourteen ministerial amendments, many of which are late, Minister! What can I say? Fortunately - for you! - that Mr Lafazanis and Mrs Konstantopoulou are no longer on the table to develop the well-known theories of a parliamentary coup. Amendment to ERT, an amendment to radio stations, an amendment to VAT, an amendment to language certificates! One honestly loses the account! We had to get there, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of November 2015 - the truths always bother - to "fake", finally, with the "second time left" government, the first bill that, after nine months of governance, brought to Parliament for the crucial sector of primary production. It is a bill ready, it is assumed, since May 2015, that it has been well-advertised and well-expected and that Mr. Apostle is visible and innovative, a bill, supposedly, a product of consultation. Unfortunately, however, as the CEDEFOP notes, in a memorandum submitted at the hearing of the bodies, the bill was submitted to the committee, without any relevant provisions to be discussed with it, while the President of the CEDEFOP said attributes: "We had discussed them and reached the Committee on Pilgrimages but we did not find them within the bill". I am presenting for the minutes the memorandum and the extract from the committee's minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And irony! You are trying to present this bill, as a rationalisation and householdation of our primary sector, driving it, is supposed to be in the new era of growth when you are sending farmers and farmers to the extract, with the exterior tax-paying and tax-paying measures that you have been preparing them since the new year. Instead of manna, bile, then, Minister. The Greek farmer will come in confrontation with overtaxation of agricultural income from 13% to 26%, the increase in the advance tax from 55% to 100%, which I think just nowadays, we of evils, were 27.5%, faced with the tripling of his insurance contributions to the OGA. That is to say, Minister, that in your statement in June 2015, you described as a graveyard for the primary sector, following the error of the equivalents that were never naturally found, following the taxation of agricultural subsidies, which for the first time in your time you voted - and, in May 2015, after the first non-payment of the advance payment of Community subsidies one and a half months after their fixed payment. At the same time, of course, you have tripled the excise duty on oil from 1 October, the abolition of time in October, at an annual cost of EUR 130 to 160 million. Your anti-development mania and the primary sector, of course, did not stop there. You have unsuccessfully attempted - you have been 'emptied' at the last moment by your government partner - to tax Greek micro-breedings, leaving the large foreign monopolies of beer intact. Who? You, the Left Government! And the beer may have escaped but the wine, unfortunately, did not make it. Finally, the excise duty on wine was set at 0.20 out of 0.40 which you were preparing, decommissioning a Community directive of 1992 on the competitiveness of our Greek wines, while the other European countries, of course, keep them as an eyewitness. And then comes your supposed visionary and innovative bill. Carbons the treasure, Minister! In fact, the much-advertised bill is nothing but a quick and fragmented string of the laws of our own government, the laws 4264 and 4315 of 2014 for which you are even convicted, accusing the New Democracy of what you should thank. And why should you thank us, Minister and colleagues? Why obviously forget that when we in April 2014 with an amendment of fourteen New Democracy MPs fought in parliament to introduce these definitions for the designation of pastures that your own government now copys and uses self-confidence, your party was fighting, ironing and voting against this enormous effort with the then MP and current Minister of Economy, Mr Stathakis, humiliating and saying "we also call a poet to decide who is the pastor and what consequences he has". I would ask the relevant bills and amendments for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] One post, on May 7, 2014, from the flagship of your parade type, "AGEY", is enough to unravel your political inconsistency. So "AGEY" said: "The amendment of fourteen MPs declassify forests and baptize them pastures. The amendment to unwritten voters comes without the grazing areas being determined in advance." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Then, of course, it was your beautiful opposition years, his years "not everything", his years "yes" to everyone. Then, Minister, for every opportunity you have sedated the effort of our Government, we, with the amendment that has been made to law, have created the conditions for the first time in order to increase impressively and above all Community-widely the eligible areas of our country. We have achieved an important national negotiation, which, from 1-1-2015, would have relieved our country of the axe of the fines. And because of the reason why the fines were made, why were we eating fines, Minister? Just because the European definition of pastures, which only recognized as such the huge grasslands of Northern and Central Europe, was tossing away the rich, woody and tossynchronous areas of specific Greek geography, the ones that our farmers had to use and the practice of their livestock farms, in order to feed their animals, that is to say, to match them to rights, in order to pay subsidies. It was a legislative void, which harmed our country unnecessarily, and which we were able to negotiate and finally change, when you, the opposition on the left, accused us of declaring the forests and baptizing them. Result? By 2020, Greek farmers have received 26% of rights-increased funds compared to the previous programming period. So, this valuable deposit has given you, with your own obligation, within the nine months that you are urging you, to draw up the management plans for grazing, which would undo on paper a multitude of new eligible areas, better and more rational distribution, finalising the rights for this period 2014-2020. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, this CFP train is gone. And it is your responsibility, gentlemen of the government, because this year's rights will follow farmers until 2020. Unbelievable governmental uncertainty, which has the effect not of course - what claims are these? - nor the temporary plans to have drawn up, with the sad consequence that you have not issued any rights, and therefore one and a half months after the fixed payment of the advance has not been granted to Greek farmers and farmers. To remind you that today is 30 November 2015, the last date for payment of the advance payment of subsidies, which this year - and of importance - is, exceptionally, because of the crisis on the market in European products, on the basis of Community Regulation 1748/2015, provided an advance payment of 70% instead of 50% planned to date. Unfortunately, of course, the Greek producers have not taken the euro, despite the fact, Minister, that from here you committed yourself to me and other colleagues, on 12-11-2015, to paying up to 70% to date. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Now you're telling us you'll pay 90% on 4 December. I heard today at the ERT, if I'm not cheating, that the date is switching to 15. I wish, amen. I'll say. But how, Minister? In just a few days, will you have obtained temporary and final rights? And, on the occasion of the payment, I would like to inform you, Minister, because twice you challenged me in committee, saying that no country in the European Union has paid - that Austria pays in December 50% and Italy 70% of final rights and not temporarily. Let me inform you that the Eastern countries - Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Poland, Hungary - have already paid an advance. I will not get tired of saying this - I know it is bothering you - that if nine months were not to come from committee to committee and you were able to implement your only obligation to record the new eligible areas, the ones that emerged from our definition, the Greek farmers would have been paid nicely and householded. Instead of the anticipated households, however, you are finally applying the May ministerial decision. So, what decision? The one who raised up saliva when it was made public, for quite simply separated unjustly, arbitraryly and undoubtedly the farmers of all the country in the first, second and third classes according to the beam. So, a KYA, a joint ministerial decision, all of which you hid from us and all in front of us, appeared. You sent her to the district managers to sign her on a virtual and early date, now in November for 15/06. We revealed it, but you refused it. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When you saw that some regional managers did not accept it - and how to accept it, since their farmers were wronged? - You made a ministerial decision on 20/11, taking the right to sign for you. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, you brought it as a legislative improvement, saying, in fact, that by the end of 2019, when the plans will be made - if they are made, of course - you will apply such technical solutions to your feet. So what need, then, do we have a bill, Minister, when with such foot solutions by 2019 you will pay farmers and farmers? Finally, in this respect, proof of your failure, is that this year you will share the same number of past year's past year with the same number of past year, so nothing in the clay. We gave you ready "on the plate" a solution for their legal multiplication and you threw it in the can of the unused, after you left 190,000 euros for the "ELGO DIMITRA" to draw up the projects from the ETHE. I'm asking again. Did you even put an eligible area above? No, of course not. The President of OPEKEPE, Mr Mousides, revealed this by mistake at the hearing of the bodies. Last year we gave 14 million compared to the 12.5 million that were in existence, and that was our definition of 14.5 million this year. And then you talk about thirty million acres that you joined? Unfortunately, in a few days' time, when farmers see their rights, they will see that you share their poverty unequivocally, while they should share their new wealth equally. We are therefore vertically and legally opposed to Article 4, specifying a period of completion of these plans by January 2019, what should be done by January 2017, so that we do not lose the huge national advantage of this CFP. We urge you, therefore, even now, Minister, to abolish Article 4. You were called by PASPEGIES, the regions, GEOTEE, all livestock organisations at the hearing of operators. Run and get lost time. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, two more minutes from my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u108	You have a minute more regular and one extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u109	Before I close my reference in principle to the chapter in the draft law on pastures, you should explain to the municipalities throughout the country to remove the resources that constituted significant revenues from particularly small regional and mountainous municipalities, which thus supported local development and livestock farming, as described in their memorandum. You should also commit to the minimum grazing fee in Article 7, so that farmers do not find themselves before unpleasant surprises with excessive prices. As far as Chapter II and other regulations are concerned, you are in many of the proposals of a law that we and you of course voted against. Proof not only of your political conversion - welcome this - but again of the insolence index. A characteristic example in terms of the bill is Article 14 with which you are prolonging the operation of the professional schools for which you have shown inadmissible indifference. Today, you come and adopt our own law, Law 4235/2014, which you were voting against at the time. It is worth noting that, as a result of this delay, the professional school in Nemea has not yet begun its operation. You shall also extend the period of authorisation of an establishment for livestock establishment. With regard to the legal provisions of Article 13 concerning changes to the ELGA, it is clear that this is not a substantial change, but a codification of existing practices and in no case an optimisation of the insurance issue. You have to explain why the term 'per county' has been eliminated in Article 13(3) because, as we have said several times in committee, it creates disparities between farmers with higher and lower productions. As far as the Dead Animal Collection and Management Programme is concerned, you are now updating it, with the difference that you are caring for the farmers, while we have secured the money from the Rural Development Programme. As for these particularly important Articles 16 and 18 on propagating material and on finished pesticides, which are still giving rise to intense concerns and concerns, I shall refer in detail to my position on the articles. I would stress that at the moment, fortunately, at the last moment, it has been prevented from being converted due to curious formalities in Article 18, the country in a warehouse of finished pesticides. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, the enormous delay you have shown in the distribution of pastures reflects the more generally reluctant government activity that you have been displaying for ten months. I walk slowly, I earn life, as our people say. Unfortunately, however, the political pleasure that your government has learned to enjoy, loaded on its shoulders - and especially in its pockets - the Greek citizen. So instead of lifting the nose now that you ask for consensus, finally raise your sleeves up, Minister, and rule as long as you have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u110	To come the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Nikolaos Michos. Warm request to complete your time, because you have fifteen minutes each speaker. Colleagues will have seven minutes. If we eat them two minutes - because I want not to blame one guy and the other I did not - you realize that this is not right. Here, Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Greece's entry into the European Union marked the dissolution of the primary sector of our economy and the total destruction of Greek agricultural production. Greece is a rich country, and even though over the last three decades our national production has been destroyed and dissolved literally, our primary sector, agriculture and livestock have been dissolved, it can again begin to produce. But, in order to do this, it should function as an independent state and not as a sad protectorate of the foreign powers of the European Union and all our friends. This bill, under no circumstances does it contribute to the productive reconstruction of livestock farming and by extension of the primary sector of Greece. In practice, this legislation will facilitate the collection of subsidies by the European Union, following the same background of past practices as previous governments. The target is double. It is the service of interests and the pool of voters. What I have noticed is that there is nowhere to be said - as I said in the committee - about national self-sufficiency, national production, national interest and national independence. On the other hand, there are relevant provisions on the need to comply with Community legislation in fear of being convicted by the European Court of Justice and the imposition of new fines. As we all know, since the 1980s the European Union has only forced us to reduce, reduce, reduce and not produce. The current government follows the traces of its predecessors and while it is given the opportunity to do something good for the Greek people and the real economy, it creates new customer relations between self-government and farmers. He serves through rushfets and keeps the Greek farms, hostages of domestic and foreign interests that do not want Greece self-sufficient. The position of the Golden Dawn is fixed. The Greek stockfarming and the primary sector in general are the main starting point for the country's exit from the crisis that created the political establishment and foreign loan sharks. Agriculture and livestock are not only about food but also about the countryside and its valuable natural resources. Farmers keep the countryside alive and maintain the rural way of life, which has been true since antiquity. As we all know, farmers in ancient times were a sacred profession. Today you want to wipe them out. This draft law therefore does not improve animal welfare conditions and does not guarantee the sustainability of rural communities. It does not improve agricultural reality for the benefit of consumers and it does not guarantee a decent living for farmers and farmers. The subsidies mentioned will not result in the country's real economy and this has been demonstrated in the recent past. Effective productive infrastructure will not be created nor will a national development framework be developed because there is no coordinated national policy. We have with your own government, as it turns out, the continuity of PASOK and the New Democracy. How will you manage, Minister, to help farmers and farmers with additional tax on subsidies, with extra taxes, with uncontrolled imports of milk and meat, with what you have done with oil? You're talking about pasture. I have here from "AgroNews" people from the Animal Association of Vineyards who will resort to justice for the previous government and the measures it had taken. We don't talk about that. On the other hand, Mr Balaskas, who is the President of the Federation of Animals, made a complaint about the way in which the distribution took place and unjusted areas such as Thessaly, Central and Western Macedonia, eastern Macedonia, Thrace, Central Greece and on average there are areas such as the Peloponnese and Western Greece, and a little more advantageous they certainly come out of Epirus and the Aegean islands. It says that according to the distribution of KYA, a producer from central Macedonia with a hundred sheep, for example, takes forty-eight acres of pasture, while in Crete one hundred thirteen acres of pasture. Do you think that's fair? I also mentioned to the committee yesterday what happened in Karysia, where you took the rights from there. You have no right - not only you, but no one - to take the land of these people who are private. What those who have the forest do to one another and are private with two hundred - year contracts with farmers are their own business. But you don't have the right to take them. Of course you must give others rights. The law of Mr. Karasmanis became this and the rights were given elsewhere, in northern Greece, and they received their subsidies, the "exotic", the farmers, who had to take them but not by taking the rights from elsewhere. So you must do something to make the sharing - which they say - fair to agricultural land, forest land and grazing land. On that occasion, however, Mr Karasmanis' decision also opened up another "brick" to get the TIAD private forests, pass them under its jurisdiction and be sold to great interests. Soon we'll also take out the names and who's behind them and who's behind them. I would like to move on to the proposal made by Mr Kahrimanis, the Regional Commissioner of Epirus, who seems to know very much what livestock and livestock life are like. I doubt if most of them here know how to separate the sprout from the ewe - it's very difficult, you know very well - not even if they can get up at 05.00 in the morning to "get bored", which we say. They were all here with a paper and a pencil, just like those who enforce and order you and the previous governments from Europe for what you will do here, how Greek farmers and Greek farmers will work. Well, we'll agree that it should be done and licensed in the clipboard facilities, as requested by Mr. Kahrimanis. You must, if you really want to help, give licences to the existing mantles whether they are from stone or they are from branches so that farmers can move forward, because from now on, as we know, on the basis of the European Union's laws, there should be permits, milkings in a few years' time in all regions, and this is a very difficult thing. So you have to help them either take generators to put them in the mountain ranges or in some other way. From there, from studies carried out by the Livadian Ecology Laboratory of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in the province of Lagada it emerged that about two hundred and fifty thousand acres were lost over the period 1960-93, thirty-two thousand acres of pasture, that is, about a thousand acres a year. Since the 1980s, therefore, national policy, which is similar to the provisions of the common agricultural policy and the programmes for rural development of the European Union, has been giving us a clear income orientation. I have before me the ERIC inventories of agriculture and livestock for the years '70, '80, '90 and 2000. In 1970, there were some 2.5 million acres of grazing land. In 1980 about the same and a little lower. In 1992, it was 52 million acres. In 2000, 14.5 million, we are talking about 72.30% reduction. And that's not what I'm saying, it's from the U.S.S.S.A. Inventories. How did that happen? On the other hand, as I said yesterday, Mr Alexandropoulos says that we need 14.8 million acres for grazing land to rise to 30 million acres. How's that gonna happen? From the burned, illegal logging, since within a plot that was cultivated and grazing, they grow three pine trees or a pork and they characterize it as a forest and do not allow them? You get them the grazing land. And why where are the purples not to become pastures? It barely drops and the oak and eats the animal better. Even the goats eat them and do no harm. You said - from what you heard - about the national parks. I do not think it is wrong for the national parks to go and graz the animals, even though, since spring, the grass dryes, the shepherds keep their areas and at the same time lubricate the forest. But on the other hand, on our border with Albania, no one has spoken of the illegal crossing of herds from Albania, which pass through the national parks from Valia Calda and other places. That's why no one's talking. And they come together and bring sick animals. A proposal is the mobile slaughterhouses to reduce the financial burden on difficult mountain areas and on the islands. Because there are too many who find it difficult. You know too many people from our county the distances that a farmer has to take his animals to take them to the slaughterhouse, which, throughout Evia, are three slaughterhouses, in southern Evia, in Central Evia and one - two in northern Evia, so it is too much cost. On the other hand, 14 million euros have been lodged with ELGA by farmers and 6 million has been taken back. The rest of what's happened? Have they been distributed on the street, have they been gifts somewhere, have they been mistreated? Shouldn't you look at these? In Ireland, from what I read a few days ago, animal nutrition is 95% of grazing. Here we have the highest percentage of feedstuffs. Why shouldn't it be here - and I'm not telling you about 95%, I'm telling you about 60% - of grazing, and the farmers' pockets too? You know very well how accurate feed is right now. I mentioned it the other day. At the moment, a ball of twenty to twenty pounds of clover in Crete will arrive to buy it through a feed shop of 10 to 11 euros, which rubyl is a basic food that should eat the animal, has seven different vitamins, helps growth and dairy production. If you want to help the farmers on the other hand, you need to take the feed out of the stock. And I don't understand why Monsanto forbids Greece from putting soybeans. What kind of deals are these? Last year a small test was carried out in Kopaid with soybean soybeans that sprinkled and had too much growth and was very good. But unfortunately you are not looking at these things, you are simply carrying out orders that are given to you by Europeans and nothing else. That's what I had to tell you. If you want to help the Greek farmer, you can do too much but so far we don't see anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Micho. We won for three minutes. To come to Stepma, Mr. Michael Jeleighs, a special speaker from the Democratic Association. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill we are discussing today on the 'Sustainable land and other provisions' came to the committees of the Parliament to discuss on 18 November, notebook day, on the day farmers pan-German mobilised, they sent the first message of their reaction to the policies implemented by the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. Did they protest why? To abolish the tax on subsidies, to charge input costs with an increase in VAT from 13% to 23%, to abolish the excise duty on oil, to increase the advance tax from 27.5% to 55% and, lastly, to wine. Was there a dialogue? Since the second time there have been tear gas, there has been an authoritarian and no dialogue. And then all the time. But that alone is enough today to say that we are then continuing, since we are discussing this draft law on livestock farming, Greek livestock farming, where it has been heard here how important it is today for the economy of our country, how important it is to strengthen our food capacity when we import 80% of beef and 70% of pigs. It follows on from the increase in taxation, which has already been included in the budget from 13% to 20% with the increase in insurance contributions, which has already been included in the budget of more than 100 million. So we should be seriously concerned where the primary sector is going. What should we do? Do we need it? Is it necessary today, since we are all talking about 'you know, one of the key pillars that the economy needs to support today and go forward, perhaps the only one that can produce in a year and give object to the secondary and tertiary sector, is the primary one'? What do we do? It was heard that you yourself, Minister, said on 30 June - and you said that these measures were tombstones. I do not believe that you are claiming the role of the gravest of the agricultural sector in a sector of the economy that we really need to make a national reconstruction plan. I would like now, before entering the bill, Minister, to refer to something else. We have repeatedly asked you - and also the speakers and other rapporteurs in Parliament's committees - whether this bill had anything to do with the advance payment of aid, subsidies to Greek farmers if the joint ministerial decision of May 2015 applies and you intend to implement it. You yourself have repeatedly said that this bill has nothing to do with how the subsidies are to be granted, how the pastures are to be distributed. I ask you from the Step by the House of Parliament. In Article 19(5), where you say ‘until the adoption of the management grazing plans referred to in Article 3, the allocation of eligible pasture to farmers in the country will be carried out in accordance with the joint Ministerial Decision of May 2015’, do you want to make us consent by voting in principle in this Ministerial Decision, which divides Greek farmers into various categories? And I challenge you from the Step of the House on this matter to inform the Plenary Assembly that by the Ministerial Decision you will make the distribution, what is the average of aid per animal unit, per species of animal in each county, in each region of the country. And be careful to see, with regard to this distribution and the rights assigned ten to twelve days ago, the Minister sent them by cd to the district managers to sign them. We have asked that you inform us, Minister, of the criteria for this allocation. There wasn't an update. The Ministry of Rural Development cannot share the rights of Greek farmers at the beginning of the implementation of the new common agricultural policy, where the rights of Greek farmers will be followed for six years, by procedures which are opaque, by procedures which are not in the knowledge of the Greek Parliament, by procedures which are not in the knowledge of the institutions of farmers and which you want to see in this process. As good as we can have, if this point is not clarified, we cannot go on with the bill. It is a major issue for Greek farmers, because you know very well, Minister, although you have said on many occasions that you did not need the rough management plans to make the allocation of rights, that the pastures are more than enough in line with the plans you have drawn up. I'm asking you. Why have you not so far attributed the amounts allocated to Greek farmers from organic farming from 2013 onwards? What you have now notified for 2012 and 2013 has cuts of over 50% and 60% to farmers. Since there are the pastures. If it is not possible in the knowledge of the Greek Parliament how you make such distributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Jelloney, I'll cut you off for a few seconds and add them to you later. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-seven students and schoolchildren and two attendants of the Greek College of Thessaloniki. We welcome you to Athens and Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u115	Before entering the bill, ladies and gentlemen of the League, I will say: is it possible to have a bill of twenty articles and to have fourteen amendments, including the Ministry of Education, in a draft law on pastures? Mercy. Finally, you should respect parliamentary procedures, if anything. I won't say what you were saying, but this tactic cannot go on. Will the amendments be monitored or the bill to be discussed in detail in both the committees and the plenary? Irrelevant amendments, irreversible. I would also like to remind you, where the voices and objections you had, gentlemen of the conflict, went, when in May 2014 the amendment, which for the first time laid down what were the pastures, and then you had all fallen to eat this Minister, Mr Tsataris, so that Mr Tsataris would not be voted on. 4064, this law that, for the first time, defined what was meant by pasture. You come today and what do you bring, Minister? What is the new, innovative, when Greek stockfarming wants areas today, wants policies, wants a national production reconstruction plan? Is there a positive proposal in all this bill? Prolongations on extensions and copying and resumption of n. Date of birth: 4 April 2014. All you do is that you change the term "caskland" by the term "casing earth". I am not going to add anything to that, apart from what the Scientific Committee of Parliament says, it is firstly noted that this definition is identical with the definition of forests and forests. Consequently, land that will be characterised as grazing land will coincide with forest or forest land or parts thereof. I do not have to say anything else about this change. This change in name will create problems tomorrow with the European Union. Regulation 13 and Article 7 of the European Union clearly stipulates that the terminology and designation which the European Community accepts in official documents is only the word pasture. But you want to show that you're bringing something new. The essential thing is not the change of words, the christenings you make in words. Politics is what should be in the bills. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, has come to Parliament's plenary because of the frugality of the SYRIZA - ANEL 10 months of the SYRIZA conflict. It is also important that the European Parliament should be involved in the legislative process in order to ensure that the European Parliament's role in the legislative process is taken into account in the legislative process. This is where we're working on the daisy. Minister, on a timely question that I asked you two weeks ago, you replied from this one step forward that on 30-11-2015 you would have shared the single payment to Greek farmers and farmers. Today we hear about Friday 4 of the month, rumors in the media say about 10-15 of the month. So, are you ready to pay, Minister? I ask you: Before paying, should Greek farmers and farmers not today be aware of the amounts of rights which the new common agricultural policy deserve? When are you gonna send these? And don't tell me that you'll send them electronically and that every farmer will enter every village to see his rights. These procedures have been concealed. At the same time, I would like to stress that, from you, the first time on the left, which you very much respect the institutions, workers, for the first time, we have a draft law to draw up the management plans. While in the previous law, in the n. 4264, it was foreseen that the management plans of pastures would also be made with the presence of the institutions of farmers and, if they could not, then from the respective regions, you, Minister, in this law that you are now bringing, exempting those who are responsible, excluding farmers and their institutions from drawing up the management plans. At the same time, under pressure from the committees and from the debate, you agreed to put them into the management committee only, in the committee for the distribution of pastures. But there is another question about the grazing fee. With the previous law, he went to the municipalities. You come now and say that the grazing fee that Greek farmers will pay will go to the regions. I ask, Minister: When with the previous law there was a commitment that this fee would only go to infrastructure projects, rural roads and inland waterways, what knowledge of the needs of each municipality's infrastructure and what services will they evaluate? Therefore, remove an income from the resources that are responsible for maintaining pastures and making infrastructures. Why did that happen? Why do you want the regional authorities to sign in terms of distribution? In addition, we do not know the conditions you are doing it. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out in detail that there is also an article in the bill, where at first there was a genuinely European originality, which said that agricultural medicinal products would be able to renew their date of expiry, without any condition, since they could not be sold and would have expired. That's why I said that this bill came in and it's written on the knee and it's pretty rough. Under the pressure you have received from the committees, you have made legislative improvements. And what are these? If a trader of agricultural medicines has uninterrupted agricultural drugs over 30% of what he ordered, he will call his supplier and tell him: "Take them, they were well stored, take them and change the date." Are we serious? Where have we seen this before? Who are you going to protect? And not to say anything else, I think you have good intentions, which is why I propose that this article should definitely leave the bill. There's no guarantee...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Jelloney, please, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would just like to say that, if it is high the cost of withdrawing these medicines, the four sisters of multinational companies producing and exporting agricultural medicinal products to our country should make them responsible for the cost of destroying the missing agricultural medicinal products and not giving them up without knowing whether they are effective, effective in their use or whether they are poisons for farmers and farmers themselves who will use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u118	Mr Moraitis, ladies and gentlemen, all the first five colleagues to speak after the speaker, should come to Stepma. It is Mr. Konstantinos Barkas, Mr. Andrianos, Mr. Barbarousis, Mr. Kegeroglu and Mr. Ilhan Ahmet. Then the Minister talks. You have the floor, Mr Moraite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, starting with this, we denounce the unacceptable practice of tabling late amendments. The most serious thing is that these amendments have nothing to do with the bill we are discussing. You have denounced this practice, Minister, in the past, and now you are zealously implementing it. You establish it on a permanent basis as the previous ones. You even overrun them in the suppression of fights with tear gas and MATs. Vulcanizers in the past look like playgrounds. In a tragic situation farmers are in the whole country. They experience the effects and dead ends of the anti-agricultural, anti-animal policy of the European Union, of co-government, of the Euro-mono street parties, which co-decide and implement the guidelines of the common agricultural policy. The effects of these policies are expressed over time by reducing Greek livestock production, increasing the imports of livestock products and the deficit in the agricultural trade balance, mainly resulting from the importation of livestock products. The livestock sector is of particular importance for the production of high nutritional value food and can contribute to the nutritional independence of our people. We have all the conditions for the development of all the livestock sectors, for modern folk needs to be met with safe and cheap food. Animal husbandry can make a real contribution to regional rural development and to maintaining the social fabric of rural areas, to exploit mountain winter areas which are impossible to exploit, to combat unemployment in rural areas. However, such a perspective stumbles in the capitalist way of production and in the implementation of the common agricultural policy. That is why, following the accession of the country to the EEC at that time - and in particular in recent years - we have had a decline in the livestock sector. Our country is a deficit in the main livestock products. Cow milk, beef and pigmeat, whose importation burdens the commercial balance and which would be much higher if the capitalist crisis did not bring much down to internal consumption. People's families live in poverty, in poverty, cannot consume even the essentials, such as milk and meat. Let's see some evidence on the livestock farm. All these years in heaven, in the 'golden spoons' of the European Union, which you all support in 1980, we imported only 20% into beef and we were self-sufficient in cow's milk. Today we import 90% of beef and 65% of cow milk we consume. In other livestock farming, the situation is similar. This draft law we are debating does not respond to the main demands of small and medium-sized farmers. Our opinion is that you are trying to create false impressions that today the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict is not indifferent to the acute problems of livestock farming. You are concerned about the growing discontent in the countryside, in the villages, which are 'cooked pot'. You want to prevent reactions to the anti-agricultural storm that comes and the one that has been in the previous period with the prerequisites of the left memorial. We say you're doing well and you're worried. You will find the poor farmer, the workers, the poor popular layers of cities and the countryside. The struggles will bounce as long as your anti-Flemish policy breaks the people's families. We invite farmers to join the strike on Thursday 3 of December at the gatherings of the class forces of the Pan-Attagonistic Front across Greece. Now I come to the bill we're talking about. The purpose of the merger is to legislate to speed up the adaptation of the grazing system to the new CAP and the scheme for granting aid on the basis of area eligibility. All of this under Regulations 1307 of 2013 and 6039 of 2014 of the European Union. The poor farmers were hit by the procedure governing the selection of eligible grazing land. Thousands are the ones who have been unpaid or have received well-paid subsidies, compensatory allowances. On this basis, it also changes the management of forests and forest land that can be landed, seeking to convince the Government that there can be a rational management of land for the benefit of small and medium-sized farmers, in the context of the sovereignty of the profitability of the monopolies and guidelines of the common agricultural policy. Your direction is to speed up the process of concentration and concentration of extensive livestock farming, which the European Union does not promote. The large dairy industries seek to increase profitability, low milk prices and stable production. This will release significant areas from livestock activity to ensure cheap land for new profitable investments in all sectors of the capitalist economy. The Greek governments and today are literally following this strategy, despite the tears they occasionally shed for farmers who are being disowned. The argument of both the previous and the current conflict proved to be foolish that the European Union must accept the fact that in Greece ovine and caprine animals were traditionally grazing in woodland and that the problem should be solved, but the definition of permanent pasture has been extended by the European Union, but that does not mean that this also means ensuring eligibility for the granting of the aid for grazing land. Here, Minister, I would like to refer to the question I asked you and to the committee. Last week, you sent five hundred VVR to Iato-Carnania for farmers who have joined organic farming. Yesterday afternoon or this morning you sent them a new document saying that they should sign responsible declarations to get the compensation for organic livestock for 2012 and that they would not have any requirement of any effect they would have on pastures. That is unacceptable. We ask you: does this apply only to 2012 or to the next three years that have joined? I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You must answer, Minister. It is an important issue and it is a result that proves the great problems of poor medium-sized farmers due to declassification. The cause, however, that exacerbates the problems of small and medium-sized farmers, is the competition of the profitability of the capitalist development path, with the instrument of the Common Agricultural Policy, in which, as we said, the bill on grazing land in Greece is also included. Furthermore, this bill essentially opens the way for a change of character and destination of millions of acres of forest and grassland and we will have abolished the presumption of the State's ownership of them. The ownership status of pastures is not solved against the state. The government is trying to avoid the unresolved proprietary issue of grassland and forest land. That is why it does not mention anywhere the word "private", knowing that there is a question for hundreds of thousands of acres of state land, which are claimed by natural, mainly persons, with false or void or non-existent contracts, which do not demonstrate ownership, while the state operates on the presumption of ownership, since they are forests and forest land. The bill does not provide for the demarcation of grazing land, but it will result in the eclipse of the management plan. I would remind you that the provisions for demarcation of pastures, by n. 1734/1987, in accordance with Regulation No 370/1997 and with the decision of the Council of State, are contrary to Articles 24(1) and 117 of the Constitution. In most rural areas of the country, there is landlock, with areas that are grazing and have been granted to local administrations only the right to allocate and collect rights but do not own them by ownership. Any management plan can be called into question and placed under sect, when areas which, in combination with nature and with forest disputes, should not be included in it. Finally, there is no provision for any procedure to ensure scientific excellence in the examination of objections. With regard to the impact we will have, you say that by 2019 the break-up plans will be finalised. Poor farmers will suffer new blows, having increased the rental price, will be charged by the planned improvement and infrastructure projects and will perpetuate the disposal of agricultural grazing land to farmers, which, on the basis of European Union regulations and the plan implemented by OPEKEPE, will have high prices and will be ineligible. Minister, we believe that this policy of yours towards farmers does not only solve problems, but rather creates huge problems which farmers will face in more escalated form in the next few years. The Communist Party of Greece is radically opposed to the policy of declining livestock farming and the extinction of small and medium-sized producers. Without rotation, it clearly says to small- and medium-sized farmers that there are two paths to the development of livestock and the rural economy as a whole. The first route is the one implemented by the governments of capital over time either self-powered or co-operation within the European Union and has the well-known results for livestock, consumers and small and medium-sized farmers. The second road is the one that believes that livestock can and must be recovered, with the main aim of meeting the nutritional needs of our people with safe and good food, taking advantage of all the productive potential of the country, ensuring sustainable income to small and medium-sized farmers, protecting public health, livestock and the environment. On the basis of these objectives, all livestock sectors may be developed for the purpose of self-sufficiency in all livestock products within a shorter or longer period of time. The development of livestock proposed by the JRC requires a radical restructuring of plant production with a view to the development of livestock crops for the production of domestic plant feed to ensure safe food. To develop livestock farming, however, there is a need for a radical change in the price and subsidy system for all agricultural products. In other words, we need a conflict with the common agricultural policy, the World Trade Organization, with the policy of the governments of capital. The development of livestock proposed by the JRC in order to benefit small and medium-sized farmers, people's layers and not the few entrepreneurs, should be based on the productive cooperatives of small and medium-sized farmers. This is because the productive cooperatives can solve the great structural problem of Greek livestock farming, which is small, scattered livestock holdings. They can combine planting with animal production, substantially reduce production costs. They can ensure sustainable income to small- and medium-sized farmers, increase economic, social, cultural, rural and particularly mountain areas that have devastated. However, the productive cooperatives cannot survive within the European Union and the anti-agricultural policies of the Greek governments. They can be developed within the context of popular power and the people's economy, where the main means of production will be popular property and small and medium-sized farmers along with other people's strata, will be essentially involved in the design of production on the basis of popular needs. In the context of the people's economy, producer cooperatives will be multi-faceted by the state. The production and movement of the most important agricultural supplies, machinery and the processing of livestock products will be carried out by state-owned enterprises so that cooperatives have cheap supplies and consumers secure food. In order to implement such a policy based on producer cooperatives, however, it requires mass decapitation of small- and medium-sized farmers by the policies and by the groups that inherit them. It is necessary to create political conditions for the implementation of a more comprehensive public economy in which small and medium-sized farmers can make a significant contribution. In conclusion, Minister, we hear you say where you stand and where you find yourself calling the Euromoney parties - and especially what they have in mind - in order to make legislation, in order to transfer the fines imposed by the European Union to the backs of farmers. In other words, we will have new raisins that will be added to the increase in VAT that you have all voted together from 13% to 23%, to the ETUC tax rate that the previous ones have voted against and the current government, which puts a tax on rural dwellings, mandarins and pastures, would be abolished. All this will come with the increase in taxation, with the quadrupling of the tax advance from 27.5% to 100%, with the tripling of insurance contributions to the OGA. All this tsunami coming, it's going to give the charismatic shot to the poor farmhouse. It won't last. After all, this is your purpose, to leave an hour before the big farmers, capitalist businesses. We have also told you in committee, and now we are telling you that the transfer of these fines to poor medium-sized farms is a cause of war. We are voting against this bill in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u120	The reason for this is the special speaker from the Potami, Mrs Catherine Marcos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of an integrated policy for the recording and management of areas that can be grazed is particularly critical, especially in the current difficult situation for Greek primary production. Firstly, to support livestock farming as a productive sector in the economy. Pilgrims contribute to lowering production costs as well as to the production of quality products with characteristics derived from animal feed, in line with international trends in the demand for animal products. Secondly, in order to preserve biodiversity in areas where it is applied in a scorched manner and in a design, it is now acceptable and scientifically proven that the contribution of grazing to the conservation and protection of natural ecosystems, the protection of species and habitats and the protection of fires by removing dry biomass is now acceptable. Thirdly, within the framework of the European Common Agricultural Policy, pastures are one of the three regions of the new CAP, while the linkage of grazing animals is a precondition for payment of the basic aid to farmers. These three benefits or objectives are not desirable to be promoted at the expense of one another. We cannot turn the whole country into a grazing area to get subsidies. We cannot completely abolish grazing to protect the natural environment. The main aim is - and it must be - the sustainable management of a valuable natural resource, perhaps the largest renewable resource available to our country. Unfortunately, the more traditional grazing is, the more traditional it is, it is the inability of the Greek state to lay terms and rules in this activity, so that grazing serves as a tool for farmers, while at the same time not creating unwanted consequences for the natural environment. It is also great that the governments are incapable of communicating to the competent institutions of the European Union the specificities of Greek pastures, so that we lead to solutions - ballasts and that the country pays fines, over EUR 1 billion for wrong handling and delays. The first and main problem is that we do not know where grazing is permitted. Even today we do not know the exact number of grazing land in our country nor have we been able to agree on how these are identified. The interpretation given by the Ministry of Rural Development differs from that of the Ministry of the Environment, so that we do not even have a clear picture of the extent of pastures today. Different approaches lead to different results. You are attempting to give the definition of grazing land in Article 1, which to some extent is identical to the definition of forests and forest land. We also told you in committee and confirmed by the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. At the same time, provisions and legislation on pastures remain in force, as are European legislation. Then you tell us that the destination of the land is not changed by the definition. Then, in Article 2, you record - you say - grazing land but recording does not affect printing, protection and management. In Article 8, you are talking about imprinting, but you are telling us what areas are excluded. All this regulation kit - obviously not to show that you are trying to declassify forest land or harm rights - will surely create problems in implementation. You cannot hide behind ambiguous formalities to avoid the conflicts that will cause greater problems tomorrow when they come to implement what you have set out in the bill. Pilgrimage is clearly a management tool for sustainability. The controversy between environment and livestock is to some extent artificial. It is necessary that you proceed directly with the management. To cooperate with the Ministry of the Environment, to complete both the forest maps and to relieve farmers of this conflict between the two ministries that don't concern them. You are also not talking at all about the major issue of the ownership status of grazing land, especially as regards church land, where many areas remain questionable, creating difficulties for farmers. We are having a debate without completing the register, where it will also identify the uses of land, by region. A database is created which records the needs for the implementation of national and Union programmes and throws the ball in the regions to find each of its grazing areas - which belong to them - to manage them. In any case, a definition is underway that is the first step. The second is of course the management, i.e. the continuous monitoring, classification based on the grazing and loading of each area, the provision of guidance to farmers for the selection of animals on the basis of the area's vegetation, improvement of infrastructure and so on. Here the most important change from the previous import regime is the transfer of revenue from the renting of pastures from the municipalities to the regions. You have not yet clarified the reasons and the dysfunctions you have seen and led you to clear another resource from the municipalities with such a sluggishness and without prior to the elementary public consultation. The distribution of powers between regions, regional units, municipalities, decentralised is completely unclear, as the relationship between management plans between them and the other projects and special schemes in force in one region remains unclear. Of course, this is not just about transferring competences from one another to another, but about how we will actually improve our grazing process. In the meantime, they have a point and the farmers who say that the bill is excluded from the management and allocation procedures, at the same time when they are charged with the costs of the procedure. They also lose their rights if it does not ensure that the administration plan is drawn up in good time. The farmer is neither an enemy of the pasture nor of the state. On the contrary, he must be the guardian of his pasture, to be a central person in any management. For example. The common system of grazing with animals from different holdings to grazing in the same area in combination with the change of pasture every year or every three years, acts as an incentive for the farmer to invest in his area, to build some works, to take care of over-population. That is why I proposed the long-term yield of pastures preferably around the farm and the separation in livestock zones with specific management and protection obligations for farmers, so that each farmer knows which part is. We were pleased to see that the Minister adopted our proposal to give priority to rare indigenous tribes in the distribution of pastures and we thank them for that. Apart from maintaining the genetic heritage of Greek livestock, which is in itself a worthwhile and important objective in the context of biodiversity, these breeds - unique in our country - are also a comparative advantage for Greek livestock farming. We are talking about animals that are adapted to the Greek environment, which requires very few interventions and which can take advantage of mountainous and remote areas. Here, then, is the importance of pasture, not only in the context of eligibility - which, as I said, is important and we want it and we support it - but also as a factor in strengthening the competitiveness of livestock farming and as a comparative advantage. Another point that needs improvements is the process of drawing up management plans. There could be a clear demand for public consultation on the projects or even a procedure of objections, so that there would also be proper social control. I would remind you that this procedure applies to all management plans. Furthermore, the bill does not guarantee at all the prospect of integration of new farmers into the rights or even broadening of existing farms with new animals. Finally, we also need to ensure through this draft law that the grassland yield is linked to the real presence and grazing of the region, and not to be faced with the paradoxes created by the artificial solution of May, which - I am passing away - you will continue to implement until the management plans are completed. You didn't tell us if you were going to fix the problems. You are simply asking us to validate your own mistakes, which you yourself have admitted under pressure from the allocation of subsidies. Unfortunately, the main concern behind the bill is eligibility under the new CAP, and indeed with a view to the payment of aid in December, perhaps to gold out the pill for the tough measures that are coming. Without overlooking the importance of subsidies to finance and support the livestock sector - in view of the important fines imposed in our country by the European institutions - it is not possible for the Ministry's vision to be exhausted to eligibility. This bill is primarily an opportunity to see the livestock sector as a sector of the economy that still has significant unrealistic potential. Animal husbandry continues to represent only 30% of total agricultural production. The number of animals reared has declined dramatically over the past few decades, thus reducing our country's adequacy in animal products. Within four years, from 2007 to 2010, the total labour force in livestock holdings decreased by 27%. This course may and must be reversed. The pasture policy must be part of a more general national plan for sustainable livestock activity, a plan which will provide guidance to farmers for the type of farm and livestock, a plan which will promote, for example, the cultivation of farmed pests, a plan which will take care of the rest of the pastures, but which will also address the issues of livestock education, the provision of scientific assistance to farmers and the better organization of production. Otherwise, we return to the seasons 'all the pounds, all the money'. So I want to ask you. What is your final intention? What is your plan for pastures, as reflected in this bill? Is it just to make a map of land and share them in general with farmers, equal to subsidies, and then does God have them? And after twelve months without legislative work, is this the ambition of the Ministry of Rural Development? Or is there a national strategy, a pasture plan, a strategy which will link all these temporary and definitive grazing plans across the territory and which will provide guidelines for active protection of the renewal and management of pastures? Overall, the need to cover the bill is imperative and present and your intentions are positive. However, we cannot ignore the fact that the intervention which is being made is limited in scope, in line with the real provisions of the problem and disappointing after so many months. Nor can we overlook the so many unnecessary amendments you have tabled so far for the bill and then others come. You are still worthy of the logic of the previous period and of the previous governments, adopting the unacceptable legislative practices that you have been accusing of for years. Let us at least hope that the ministers will come and support them. We will vote in favour of the bill at first, but with the warning that we are immediately waiting to see from you the timely completion of the plans, the settlement of all outstanding with the ministerial decisions and the immediate payment of aid to farmers and farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Marcus. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by making a very small historical regression. Let us remember that in 1990, where it is a station for Greek agriculture, agriculture was 11.5% to 12% of GDP. Then the late Athanasios Canelopoulos said that if agriculture falls below this point, it should strike an alarm. In December 2014, agriculture contracted to 3.5%. In these twenty-four years no SYRIZA government - Independent Greeks took part. Others ruled this place. In any case, this is not the time to look and to give responsibilities. It is time to empathize with agriculture, because the primary sector is the most important, it is this sector in which we have a huge advantage as a country. We must enthusiastically and by means of a fruitful dialogue we must take care to take care to promote agriculture. The bill "Bossible lands of Greece" makes use of fifty million acres, which were left unexploited. This bill gives a strong impetus to livestock farming. With the new lands the use of herbs is limited and is now exploited by the rich flora of the Greek land, the one that enriches Greek milk and makes it unique, the one that combined with the local breeds of ovine and caprine animals, gives Greek cheeses the excellent quality and taste, the one that combined with all the above, made the feta sought and flagged Greek cheese and just. In addition to the new pastures, the industry is becoming not only sustainable but is growing and becoming competitive, reducing production costs. How's that gonna happen? By reducing the use of sprouts in the first place and free grazing, therefore with new grazing areas whose use and management will be careful and in view of the interests of farmers and Greeks. The bill gives the possibility of grazing areas that may be of a forestry character at present, but it is certain that these areas will not only suffer damage, as some people claim, but rather benefit. With grazing we have the natural dilution, the removal of waste leaves and grass, the biomass we say, which, without grazing, would remain on the ground, thus becoming flammable but also creating a layer of waterproof that does not facilitate the infiltration of the rainwater into the ground, resulting in a flow of water without enriching the watercourse but, on the contrary, washing the soil out on the large slopes or stripping it. Let us not ignore the fertilization of the soils from which animals pass. Based on the bill, the development of grazing management plans is entrusted to the regions. At the same time, it is determined that the duration of the grazing plans is seven years. After seven years management plans for grazing shall be revised and re-approved. In the event of a natural disaster or any other cause, the projects shall be revised and approved within one year. Here, Minister, I would suggest that the seven years should be decades. It should be noted that the bill is intended to institutionalise the needs arising from the Community regulation on the new CAP, on the basis of which it is possible for our country to extend the scope for obtaining land rights in low vegetation areas or even in areas characterised as forests. Under the new law, the studies on the grazing of the respective areas will be carried out and the planned management plans for grazing in each region will then be established. Based on the data so far, the eligible areas are only close to the seventeen million acres, when the needs stemming from the allocated rights approach the twenty-six million acres. This means that with the data so far, a significant number of rights remain uncovered. This results in serious charges and fines on the one hand and, on the other, in great delays in the payment of the compensatory payments, for example, for 2013 and 2014 as well as in the 2014 single payment of many farmers. The legalisation and modernisation of livestock establishments are factors directly linked to the development and strengthening of Greek livestock farming, both in the primary sector and in the products of animal origin. Farming is currently only part of 30% of agricultural income. Imports of livestock products due to deficits in meat and milk form the agricultural balance at 2 billion, 80% of which comes from imports of livestock products. It is therefore necessary to increase significantly the participation of livestock. We propose that at the end of each year, checks should be carried out on the livestock of each farmer unit. In this way we will know the behaviour of each farmer and each unit respectively. The 10% coverage of livestock establishments is low. We are proposing an increase and even a escalation in the coverage rate. Where there is no need to derogate from the permits for livestock establishments, this must be done by rapid procedures to avoid the time-consuming procedures today. We really have cases in which it can take and a half and a half years to obtain permission. Finally - and I am closing with this, Minister - I would like to ask you to pay attention to Amendment No 61/4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Lazarides, see how thank you for saving us seven minutes! Be well. The special speaker of the Association of Centres, Mr Anastasios Megalamustakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u125	Hello, gentlemen. This bill on grazing land could have a very positive sign, as it is trying to solve a problem that is agitating our livestock. For so many years fines have been raining and grazing lands have been falling short. It is also trying to give a solution and reduce the cost of animal nutrition, which is about 60% of the total cost of livestock farming. Also, grazing is very important, because apart from cheap, it also gives a special character to Greek products, which gives them additional quality. We therefore need to provide a great basis for livestock farming and to increase the production of livestock products. First of all, before foreign markets, we must cover our own consumption in meat. Our production must be increased at least so and then with good moves to strengthen our extroversion, as foreign markets are ready and waiting for us for Greek products, which will pay for them precisely, because their character is special and their quality is excellent. We know - and we have also discussed it in the committees - that Greek yoghurt and Greek feta are not enough to meet the needs that exist. Therefore, it is absolutely our duty to strengthen and motivate, in order to create a new generation of livestock farmers, who with vision, design and plan, organised, increase livestock production and then put their stone in the development of the Greek economy as well. However, this bill, instead of giving solutions, is of a handfulness, and this is reflected in the fourteen amendments, which have been tabled and which only the Committee on Production and Trade, for example, did not deal with the issues of education. Also, the bill is provided by incomplete information on some issues. A very important issue, for which we did not have the right information from the Minister, while at the same time forming part of the draft legislation under discussion, for which Parliament must be informed, is whether it is moving forward, in accordance with the updated action plan, to upgrade and update the LPIS system. Greece in particular - and the competent OPEKEPE - is obliged to have an updated system for the identification of agricultural parcels for the annual submission of applications and the implementation of the necessary checks. LPIS is, in fact, a farm register, which pays great attention to the farmer who exploits parcels and pasture and who is the beneficiary of the aid. The European Commission has emphasised many times to us that the system for identifying farms does not operate on the basis of European conditions and standards, so that there are doubts as to whether Community subsidies result in real beneficiaries. It is what brings us fines to Greece. Therefore, if LPIS does not work as it should, then not only will Greece be charged with fines of several million, as has been the case so far, but there is also a risk that subsidies will be lost and neither the farmers nor the farmers will have any aid. To say this in other words, direct payments to farmers and farmers and at the same time the State budget is not charged with any unthinkable fines. According to the already drafted Action Plan of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - OPEKEPEPE, by the end of 2015, the supply of orthopaedics and their digitisation should be completed for the integration of 30% of the country and by the end of 2016, the other 40% of the country should be made. I would therefore like to ask you whether LPIS has moved forward in accordance with the timetable. It is very important to find out, because 2015 is over and the end of 2016 is coming. It may seem far away but it's only one more year left. If so, we must be given specific details of the exact progress of the timeframe. If not, why is this delay and what should we do, so that we do not be imposed on other financial corrections that may be imposed on our country and that subsidies to farmers and farmers are not lost? I would also like to stay on two points. Part of the background update is also the application of the PRO data methodology for the eligibility of permanent pastures, which should come to plenary for discussion. It is therefore a major question of protecting farmers and not just our farmers. In fact, it is particularly important that it be immediately updated. For me, that is, it should have become the background for the eligibility of parcels and permanent pasture. We need to define the grazing land, but we need to know which of them is eligible, because otherwise we will have a great problem for the application year and 2016 and 2015. In particular, where we expect a financial gain of EUR 60 million per year, we will have fines, financial charges. The responsibilities of the ANLL-SYRIZA Government are therefore enormous if the upgrading and updating of LPIS have not proceeded. I would stress this, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, because there is unfortunately no time or money to lose, as they have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Comrade, I'm sorry, I'm interrupting for a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEVERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall, an additional thirty-eight students and students and two teachers from - there was the "addition" - Hellenic College of Thessaloniki. We welcome you to Athens and the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u127	So, listening to the previous rapporteurs of the New Democracy and of PASOK, who rightly accuse SYRIZA of the delay and say that he should have come from the last time he was a government, I want to make a regression, to show the responsibilities of these - and of the New Democracy and of PASOK - in this area. I would remind you of the outstanding instalments of the EAGF implementing decisions and I refer to the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, which have already been imposed and included for regulation in three equal annual instalments for 2015-2017. Only for outstanding doses of executive decisions - EAGF - in 2016, apart from one, ad hoc 48, which I shall refer to separately, because it is very important, Greece has to pay more than EUR 220 million. What does that mean for the state budget? I do not want to think about it, when we are looking for equivalents, which affect the primary sector, such as tick, wines and beers. We need to set priorities. However, let me remind you, as we are before the gates of the debate in the House on the budget, that our ad hoc decision of 48/2015 requires a very important fine of EUR 321 million, which we will start to pay in five equal annual instalments. If we do the calculation, we will see that it is EUR 64 million per year, a sum that should not be paid as Greeks. Because, in other words, we were unable to set up a programme and complement Europe's rules, will we now pay EUR 164 million a year? These implementing decisions relate to the years of applications for 1999 until 2013, mainly due to the lack of the LPIS system, which our country did not have and only acquired in 2009. It's a big mistake what's been done. I repeat, these are the responsibilities of the New Democracy and PASOK, who well do and blame SYRIZA for his delay, but let them also consider their responsibilities. A system for the identification of parcels should have been in place before and not pay now. We hope that this suffering will become a lesson to you, Minister, and not allow us to say "the billion sinner not a man wise." However, the responsibility that exists now and the current leadership of the OSCE and the current government must not be overlooked. That is why I also ask this question: Everything within the European Union is the result of a political negotiation. What steps has the current government taken to resolve a political solution to the state budget burden with all these superfluous fines? We should not, of course, regard the European Commission's Implementing Regulation as a panacea to stop it. In particular, what does the government want to do? What plan does it have on the revision of this implementing regulation to have more stringent conditions for Greece, namely suspension of all implementing decisions, with a longer repayment period, with smaller instalments per year of repayment? And all this, of course, must be done in direct consultation with other countries - members of the European Union, such as Spain, Cyprus, Ireland, Hungary, etc. to achieve this by collective effort. Other such actions and such negotiations must be done, because the years between 2009 and 2012 still remain. There are proposals from the European Commission for financial corrections, i.e. other fines that have not yet matured, so that implementing decisions can be adopted. However, according to the calculations - and I hope we are wrong - the amount of the fines is EUR 200 million. We must act immediately for that too. Several Members, like myself, come from rural areas, such as Serres Prefecture, where agriculture and livestock are pillars of their economy. The development of the primary sector and the protection of farmers' incomes and farmers' incomes must be your first concern, as it is for us. We must take this matter seriously. Moreover, we see that in this bill many woodlands are characterised as grazing land. This is not bad, as this increases the number of acres, but it also helps forest areas. As previous speakers have said, forests are exempted from dry leaves by grazing herds, and so we avoid, among other things, the danger of fire. This must be done, with environmental protection as our first concern. There must therefore be proper and strict control. There must be cooperation between the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of the Environment. Environmental protection is directly linked to the sustainability of Greek livestock farming. As we have said before, the specificity of our agricultural products gives it our particular environment and our special climate. With regard to Article 18, which allows for the sale of finished pesticides, I would say that I do not think this is happening in another European country. It seems paradoxical to me, after the freshly-flavoured foods have our newly-flavoured medications. I am sure that no one can guarantee that these medicines are effective, because the factories and the companies that produce them have control bodies that control and set a expiry date. Now we, with our own committees, can fix this? I'm not sure. I am also not sure that we can know for sure how drastic this medicine can be, but also how dangerous, both for the environment and for farmers and farmers. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The other very important issue raised in this bill is grazing fees, where we take them from the municipalities and give them to the regions. With this decision - which I hope we do not take it - we do not take into account the municipalities, who have built up the economy very much and have eliminated many pathogens that existed in the previous municipalities, but we are removing them from them, while we have already reduced state funding. Many times we don't give them up, as the CTA has not been given all the municipalities for this year. There is no provision for extra resources as a replacement for what we get them. This was done without debate. How much more autocracy? We cannot discuss an issue which concerns them and affects them with the municipalities. Until now the municipalities have been responsible for the construction of infrastructure and for the preparation of grazing management plans. So, what do we do now? All the resources we give them to the region. I don't know if the district has the know-how to handle this. It had nothing to do with that until now. Why should we make this change? What purposes does it serve? We cannot understand that and we are in the process of doing this. Finally, I would like to talk about Article 12, which specifically concerns the continued operation of existing livestock establishments in or near residential areas. That, of course, is wrong. In particular, you say that ‘the maintenance permit shall not be transferred and not amended and shall be withdrawn when, for any reason, the operation of the livestock establishment is interrupted’. You therefore want to extend these licences so that you do not hit the farmers and tell them to align themselves with the rules of the European Union. Have you done an autopsy? Livestock establishments located in residential areas, the majority of which consist of wires, pallets and sheeting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little more time, Madam President. These, in order to come to a proper level, so that they do not pose a risk to public health and the environment, there is a need for investment. What are we telling them? To invest without actually being their own license? Or do you want these facilities to continue in the villages, next to schools, next to taverns, to go home, to pass, especially when it rains, through lakes, from urine - forgive me for the expression - and manure? Do you think we should go to what was going on fifty and sixty years ago, which underneath the basement had the animals and they were picking up the stings to get the upper house warmed up? What you must do is set a livestock zone just outside, within a radius of three or five kilometres, to give them incentives and tax relief to invest there. From there on, they can manage the facilities, as they want them, transfer their license and make a proper and long-term investment. Don't look short-sighted. The people did not vote for us to do - in introductory words -'something'. He voted for us to change the scenery. We are not here to give incomplete solutions, but to solve the problems and diseases of the past once and for all. We're not gonna do what the previous guys did. There is no excuse, which is so often used, 'the others did nothing, we do at least.' We're not here for that. The positions of the Member, the Minister, the Prime Minister are positions of high responsibility. When we do something, we have to do it right. This is the news people expected to see from us. We must respect the people who supported us, the people who elected us by their vote, and also respect the fact that we do not have time for further delays. We must regain hope in the world that has been lost. If you walk in our society, you'll see. We must change Greece's current bad situation. Only in this way will we overthrow the abhorrence and indulgence that people show in our faces. We must exalt modern Greece. We cannot continue to take measures which do not give definitive solutions that will help growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. Now we're entering the list of speakers. Mr. Barkas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill all the parties to Parliament have to agree on one thing, that we are resolving a chronic problem facing livestock farming, grazing land and subsidies on a pro rata basis received by farmers. This problem solves this bill, because we all know very well that in previous years and with the policies pursued by previous governments, particularly by PASOK and New Democracy, the situation of grazing land and by extension of subsidies to farmers and farmers was in black happily, and even at the expense of small farmers, as the money only went to the farmers, namely those who had a direct relationship with the political system and the parliamentarians of their province, who could have a direct relationship with the Ministry of Rural Development. So, in this thing, we all have to agree. In the rest, we'll disagree. There have been expressions on this bill here, such as the 'draft bill' and the 'parliamentary coup'. It is a bill, ladies and gentlemen, which gives a solution to the chronic problem of farmers. And that's what we tried and we're trying to do. Because when in the name of productive reconstruction we all throw away various ideas, we do not look at the real core. We will also disagree with the fact that this bill speaks of taxation, the increase in the advance payment, and all that has been mentioned by the rapporteurs of the New Democracy and PASOK. These, ladies and gentlemen, will be discussed in a next bill and it would be good if we did not pre-empt the world about what will happen, because too often in the past ten months you have been frustrated by reality. We also heard that this bill is "cutting" of previous draft laws or amendments tabled by the New Democracy. This is where we've really lost the booze. It was the New Democracy that cut grazing land from farmers, in cooperation with the European Union. I come from an area that is mostly mountainous. So the definition of grazing land was the picture of the European countries, which we can all see, namely green grassland which has no trace of trees in it. So I'll let you know that the continent is 70% stone. This is not defined as a grazing cat, when historically the farmers and their livestock farmers were grazing there? Do you know these areas were cut off? With this bill, isn't that a problem solved? We therefore give the opportunity to create that core of areas that can be used, not only those who have 'Barba in Koroni', but indeed all the farmers who have animals and want to graz them. The criticism is evident in the logic that we did not do things that help the social groups, which help farmers. We cannot, however, hear criticism from you who sold the milk-industrial 'DON' within one night. You signed your signature to sell the dairy industry "DOODONI", which was the only possible company to support livestock farming. What do you have to say about that? Was the gift of Dodonis, or the fact that you closed down the Agricultural Bank and gave it to Mr Salas, who was a bank helping farmers, as he was helping? Is that your logic of how we can help agricultural production and how we are going to make the debate on the country's production reconstruction? This is how you understand, Mr Kyriazidis, the logic of the rationalisation of farmers? Your signature is on sale of the "DDONIS". Is that why you're going to say a word when the price of milk has gone to 0.80 euros? Do you know these things? Do you know them? The owners pour milk on the farmers because they are asked for various types of fat. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u130	And what are they doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u131	So you are voting against a bill, which gives rise to the possibility of increasing fat. You know that very well, because the Greek sheep rabies is the ones that feed in semi-urban and mountainous areas, where there is also tree vegetation, and therefore the milk is also growing. You know that. Are you going to vote against this? Is that what you're gonna get into?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u132	We didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u133	That is why we are telling you this: we are entering the process of helping the country's production process. This bill sets a line in the rationalisation of grazing land, which you have destroyed and brought into decomposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u134	In 2002 it was signed. Another show.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u135	So the crocodile tears are not for you. We're not looting in this room. We weren't born yesterday. We know what you have done to help the country's production process. We know who you are defending, because from your mouth only for PASPEGES we hear and not for small cooperatives. We do not hear about the small poor farmer, who gives his battle every day, as he wakes up at 04 noon to go grazing his animals. The only thing you care about is yours. Because we put our hands on and on PASPEGES, that's what's stinging you, that's what's bothering you. We've given a contract with the people. The people supported the SYRIZA government, because it had signed a contract, that is to say to strike down the corruption that you have made for so many years. Corruption, ladies and gentlemen, is also in livestock farming, and you know that very well. Thousands of people have made money using small farmers. That is why we are fighting this process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One second, Madam President. As far as the scenarios you are working on for a fall in government and global governments are concerned, in order to restore the old political system, which society has kicked out of the door and you want to bring it out of the window, forget them. The government's majority is possible. It defends a political project for which the world has voted for us and the world supports us. So I invite you to change your mind and support this bill. I invite you to join the process of genuinely considering the small farmer and those who daily give the battle for productive reconstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Andrian has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u137	Obviously, my colleague has implemented the strategy that says that the best defence is the attack. But this tactic is not always a peculiar one. So I think it is good not to misinform Parliament and the world. We are voting for it as positive as we are. We are not applying the opposition tactics you have applied, Mr Colleague, to being in opposition. You know very well that, in principle, the New Democracy is voting for this bill. So, you didn't get it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u138	Mrs. Arabatzis didn't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u139	And that's why you've made a criticism, which isn't right, and it's wrong for us, Mr. Famele. You're wrong with us and you've got such regular samples of your anti-Policy. It is good at least sometimes to be more modest and not to display this kind of arrogance. So we are talking today about this bill on grazing land in the middle of an extremely difficult and critical treaty for Greek farmers and farmers and in total for our primary production. The mobilisations of farmers and farmers, which have recently arrived out of Parliament, underline the unequal struggle for daily survival, a struggle which, unfortunately, involves the high production costs and low production prices, the delay in payment of aid and compensation, institutional insecurity and bureaucratic turbulence, which make it even more difficult, rather than facilitating the work of farmers. It is these unequal conditions that have taken place in recent years, as the President of the Association of Greek Animals stressed at the meeting of the Commission, to leave the livestock sector of twenty-five thousand Greeks and to leave mainly mountainous areas. I would point out, for example, that the charge on fuel, the burden on the change in taxation with higher rates than the first euro, the increase in VAT on primary products, and the delays, for example, in the payment of compensatory compensation, aid for organic livestock, organic crops, the reimbursement of excise duty. Let me remind you that the New Democracy has always paid compensation and single payment to farmers in time. I would also mention, on the government's side, the increase in premium contributions, where total income is almost half the corresponding ELGA expenditure on the compensation of livestock. But also the valuable resources for the project "Alexandros Baltatzis", a work of breath for the primary production of the Greek region, are at risk of being lost today. I hope, Minister, that the work of the Ascension in Argolida will continue and be completed. I remain in the assurances you have given me in the written answers to the questions I have put to you, that this development project in Argolida will be completed, because it is really necessary for the entire Argolida. We must therefore realise, regardless of political and ideological differences, that support for agriculture and livestock must be seen as a national objective. We must support, therefore, rather than put any further obstacles to the people of production who are fighting for the region not to devastate, to fight, at multiple personal costs, to stay in mountainous and disadvantaged areas and to turn them into valleys of development, promotion and creation. I say this because, in fact, the quality products of Greek livestock, like our agricultural products, can make a decisive contribution, with good policy, to the overall effort for the recovery of the country. The example of the global echo of Greek feta and Greek yoghurt show the way and the prospects. A substantial step in this direction would be to take into account, for example, the draft law, the integrated plan for the implementation of the grazing management plans submitted by the livestock organisations since January 2015. Unfortunately, however, the government did not cooperate, as it had to, with the institutions. I would also like to point out that the pilgrimage fee by the municipalities now goes to the regions, thus depriving the municipalities of an income. Even so, there are points which need to be improved, which have been detailed, both in the processing of the committee and in the placement of colleagues. Of course - I want to point out - some improvements have been made, but it is not possible, for example, to transfer the cost of the draft law from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to farmers at this economic juncture. As also, it must be ensured that farmers do not lose their rights if, for any reason, they have not become the grazing management plans, which is not their responsibility. It is also particularly important to define the specifications of clipboard installations, the permitted works on pastures to meet the requirements of quality production. In any case, we must stress that grazing is not competitive with the protection of the environment, vegetation and biodiversity. International practice shows that, with the right institutional framework, which promotes good practices, grazing can make a significant contribution to protecting and revitalising the natural environment while ensuring that these areas are not deserted by residents. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We must therefore, ladies and gentlemen, address these issues with due responsibility and in the light of collective good, beyond ideology and prejudice. The example of the n. 4235/2014, which if it were applied in time today we would not have the deadlock on the payment of aid, is a characteristic of the need for the State to continue and consistently in terms of its obligations to citizens. It is our duty, therefore, to support effectively the Greek farmer, by removing obstacles and contingencies and by offering him the institutional framework necessary to produce them in conditions of security and sustainability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr Adriane, and respect for the time. Mr. Barbarousis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u141	First of all, Minister, before entering the bill, I would like to tell you that on Friday I asked you a question on farmers' subsidies. You should know that you didn't cover me either in your protology or in your denology. You told me a lot of things, but what I asked you didn't answer me. I specifically asked you whether you think it is right for every farmer, ELGA, OGA, ‘alpha’, ‘beet’, to be able to enter the booklet of each farmer, and to take away the sums of money he wants, because we have the phenomenon, the subsidies should come from the United Europe for farmers and not go into farmers' pockets. You have invented a lot of contributions and subsidies in most cases are not even enough to get what you ask. People will hear again that the farmers shared the "h" astronomical amount, but the reality is that the money comes into the IRS, ELGA and OGA funds. In the farmer's pocket, there's no money coming in. And I repeat that I consider it unacceptable for every service to have access to the account of every citizen. And ultimately, why should the farmer not have the right to make any adjustments and give the payments due in instalments? I want you to tell me, Minister, how you would like to know if he had access to your account any service. I'm coming to the bill now. We believe that this bill does not address the real problems of livestock farming. For example, Article 7 states that farmers will pay a price on behalf of the region for the purpose, as you say, of making this money available for the maintenance and construction of grazing land infrastructure, in accordance with the management plan. Do not laugh, the real purpose is another: it is to put another contribution - as if the ones that have are few - to grab them some more money. I am sure that this money will not be used for the purpose you say, but once again, as is customary for all these years and for the rest of the funds. It is characteristic that fishermen are exempted from ELGA insurance, while other beneficiaries are late to receive compensation and in many cases do not receive any compensation. The ELGA manages, with various terminology, to avoid payment of compensation, for example with bluetongue. A prerequisite, Minister, for ELGA correspondents to come in, to make an autopsy of dead animals, except for the 70 euros they were asking for, if I recall correctly, was that six animals were dead. How could this be done when the blue fever lasted for several months and animals were gradually dying? For example, half of the animals died in my father’s herd within three months. But they never died six the same day. One died one day, after three days, two more died, etc. So what were we supposed to do? Shall we shed the animals to gather six, so that the ELGA correspondents can come? On the other hand, Article 14 states that the concession of the use of agricultural property up to 31-10-2016 is to be extended. However, the obligation to pay tax and HISPIA is maintained instead of exempting farmers from all forms of taxation. Now let's go to Article 18, where we're talking about pesticides. The possession of plant protection products, in addition to the expiry date indicated or derived from the packaging or label, shall cease to be punished and may be authorised under the responsibility of the holder of a copy of a new expiry date. This, Minister, is extremely dangerous to public health, as most pesticides are already extremely carcinogenic, even though they are even expired. You also say you will increase the pastures. How will this happen when you've signed up to lower them? How is that going to be? Explain it because we can't understand it. They have been cut off and farmers' subsidies have been cut on the pasture issue. This, of course, does not happen at random. The dissolution of the country's primary production has been under way for years. They have signed them in the past, and it seems that yours will be heading in the same direction, judging by what he has done so far. I wish you'd disprove us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr Barbarousis, for the time. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Madam President. The bill we are discussing following the inclusion in the provision that says 'do not apply what we say above - at least for a number of years - but a ministerial decision of May will apply' becomes only a legal vehicle to pass amendments, other inappropriate, a few which give a solution to urgent issues that the government should have dealt with much more ahead of them, of course, which conceal solutions, not just customer relations, but also interoperable. For example, the amendment that came back for VAT of about 12 million to a company, on which we voted on a provision in the TV bill, but it was incomplete, says, it was not normal, it was now back to be perfect and that this sum has been allocated to the company, which has stopped the projects, because it has no liquidity, because it is, it says, closed banks and cannot be financed by the banks, because of capital controls, in order to carry out the work. I would say - as I said to Mr Spirtzi when we discussed the bill - that the House is legislating and has to legislate on the whole. He can't make selective legislation. If the Government decides to lift the 2014 provision for non-payment of VAT, when we have works carried out and the entity carrying out them has no VAT collection to offset, then if you want to change this provision to change it for everyone, for small and large contractors, for small and large public entities, who implement projects, but not selective for one case. In fact, I asked the Minister - he is not here today, he must come and tell us why the earlier provision was tripped and brought new ones - that particular reason why he is doing so, what his motive is. We didn't get an answer. We will be waiting until tomorrow for an answer to this issue, otherwise we will talk more about this interlocutory act. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not now catch what you said about certain persons, certain anti-politics, before Genaris, for this way of legislating, because that is not right. Can't you make a clean-up of what's urgent and bring them and those who are irrelevant and not urgent to keep them further in another bill? I think you can. I do not think it is a matter of the Minister of Law, but it is a general question of the government. It is the Secretary-General of the Ministerial Council who accepts it. We had agreed in the previous House to up to three ministerial amendments outside of the text, after the mess that had also been done several times in previous years, and that had been established and I hoped that this restriction would continue to exist at least. Here it was overturned, all three became thirteen and last night two more were tabled. The introduction to higher education was also submitted to the bill on pastures. It is very important, because tomorrow the Minister of Friends announces the dialogue on education and since he has brought to various irrelevant bills and a draft law on grazing issues that regulate education, then he will start the dialogue. It has therefore brought in the other regulations governing the election to higher education institutions. It has been arranged to arrange the representation of the services councils, etc. He is now bringing the arrangement for evaluation and then he will have a dialogue. Who are you addressing? Do you think you're addressing chickens? What are these things? Now I don't know if what you're saying about hay is true. It is widely circulated. I don't want to extend to that any more. I come to the bill, which has to do with the general lack of politics on the part of the Ministry, which has the same political leadership from January until today. So ten to eleven months did not bring the law on grazing land or pasture. He made a ministerial decision in May on the same subject and then realized that he had to bring a bill. But when the bill brought it, it realized that it cannot be implemented and run plans and says that the ministerial decision of May is now in force. Monsters and signs. There's no plan. That's indicative. While invoking productive reconstruction, while invoking the need to strengthen the agricultural sector, it takes tax measures, it destroys the agricultural sector, its competitiveness, it breaks it up by increasing all the taxes and the rates involved. Did he miss a product? Tsakalotos banged it. Wine. He's got another runaway? Now they're about to bring something for the tick and the tick. Everything that escapes one minister, the other - that is the government - but always taxly, burdening the agricultural sector and reducing its competitiveness. So, where are we going with that logic? Can we, Minister, continue this situation? Let me conclude: it is not enough that it has no plan, it is not enough to make payments from subsidies to compensation, it is not enough that the rural development programme - a long delay - leaves farmers without liquidity, at the same time does not pursue any policy to support them. On the contrary - we discussed this on Friday in the question, Minister - with your announcements there is a climate of prices falling too. Unfortunately, you are not handling matters properly. I think you saw your announcement with your signature underneath, responding to SYRIZA Members. I wondered on Friday. Did you mean undermining the SYRIZA Members who asked you the question, why did I not ask you any questions? The SYRIZA Members have made it to you, you have responded to them, and you have made the matter public as a decision and as a suggestion. So all this creates a bad climate, create bad conditions for farmers and the agricultural sector, and you should see these issues again. Mr Barkas comes out and "hells" PASPEGES as an institution. We criticised PASPEGIES, but for its policy many times, not the institution. Five-year-old, who's vice president, isn't he SYRIZA? What is it? He's not your C.E.? Most of you haven't voted for you? Do you deny it? And then you come and you're burdening the institution. We have criticised policy and we will continue to do so, because we must all, cooperative movement, political leadership, political parties and social partners, in the field of agriculture to agree on a national plan for productive reconstruction for the sector, to see how the country is coming out of the crisis now, with a basic pillar in rural development. That can't be a level of understanding? But after you get the tax-springs, you'll come back and ask us for our opinion again. Thank you, Madam President, for tolerance and time. I really didn't understand how it went. As much as we have to say about what is going on with this, which unfortunately is not enough. Now the Minister takes the 1% grazing fee and takes it to the regions. He asked one of the rapporteurs: 'You take it and give it to the regions to consent to the pasture plans?' I see an amendment - I am finishing with this - which refers to the extension of the secondment of the district secretaries, from two years to five. It wasn't enough for the 1% grazing fee that he gave them and made them the extension of the secretaries to consent to them. I'm saying this to show that it's not serious. The CEDEFOP, the Committee on Mountain Municipalities, has protested strongly. If you want to give the regions as well, give them to them too. But it is the municipalities that make the livestock roads, those that contribute to them. Give the regions as well as their responsibilities. Administrative costs, possibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u144	Come on, Mr. Ilhan Ahmet, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. After Mr. Kegeroglu, of course, what do we say? Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed discussing a very important draft law on the agricultural world today. Animal husbandry is a very important part, especially in the mountainous volume that we live on in Thrace, but I think it is for the whole of Greece. All the speakers here referred to the importance of the primary sector. They said livestock is what's going to get us out of the crisis. They pointed out the differences. I would like to refer to some more important points, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say that this bill is on the right track, Minister. In other words, I believe that the bill as a general bill is a good one. But it creates some reasonable questions for which I too as a Member of the region, but I think many of my fellow Members, in good faith, ask for an explanation from you. First of all, if this bill really solves the problem of grazing, if our farmers do, they will be paid with subsidies if there is transparency. This record, this count, all these management committees, all this management authority - whether it was old in the municipality or now it's a little bad - I think it's about local communities, but the farmer doesn't care so much. I want you to make it clear here, Minister, if, in this bill, people will be able to get their subsidies. Who are they going to get the subsidies? Who are these pastures? What are the terms? Is this clear? We as a river, but also as people who have worked out the bill, have seen that livestock organisations are excluded. Of course, after an amendment you have put the committees in. You made some improvements. But we see that there are still large gaps. But I would like, Mr Minister, to refer to Articles 13 and 12, but first of all to Article 13 as far as the ELGA is concerned. First of all, the issue of ELGA I think you should have brought it in with another bill, finally see if the ELGA regulation currently serves the needs of farmers. This is such an important issue you brought with this bill. In a recent reply Mr Bollaris said: 'Unfortunately, only EUR 33 million have been available and we cannot finance our farmers more than any of the damages resulting'. Since the plaque - the Memorandum of Understanding - is specific, I want to see a little bit of this arrangement that you bring, what is finally serving. You say here, Minister, that on olive, let's say, because the insurance contributions are too high in relation to the compensation paid, you are down to 1.5%. That's good, I'm not saying! Should you not do the same, but should you not do the same for other agricultural products? Tobacco, for example, which is a national product and must be protected - and indeed in Thrace where 80% of the basma production in Greece is cultivated - has the highest insurance contribution. The tobacco per acre today has a contribution of twenty-two euros, when cotton has six euros and the wheat has four euros. What's that excuse? In the same sense, should tobacco not be included in this reduction? Should we not support the tobacco grower and this monoculture in the region? It's a matter that I want to know, people want to know. Another issue is this: you say that these insurance contributions will now be calculated on the average. In other words, you're telling us that we won't count per county, but we're going to get an average of all of Greece. Here, too, I think there is a great injustice, Minister. In other words, if you do not take into account the quality of each product - for example in tobacco if it is bass or in other agricultural products - if you do not take account of the soil measurements, how can a single insurance contribution be created from the average? Some will be wronged, some might be favored, I'm not saying. I would like to give an example. In smoke, for example, the area yield in our area is a hundred and twenty pounds per acre, while in other areas with a lower quality, it is four hundred pounds. Now, that is, it is not enough to pay EUR twenty-two per kilograms per acre, but perhaps we should be called upon to pay with this regulation and EUR thirty and forty euros. We say that since the ELGA with these high social security contributions and with all this injustice is not included in exceptions, then as you give the fishermen the right to an exception, to give the farmers a potential option. Or you will give full insurance - full compensation, no insurance - no compensation. Let us come to reform and legislate and make this courageous decision and say: Any farmer who wants to be insured, no compensation for any insurance. With these contributions, with this storm, there are no today in Thrace or in the wider region of the region of farmers who want to be insured, Minister. They say 'we do not want to pay insurance contributions'. Let it be possible, not to be excluded and to come up with an amendment or legislation that enables the farmer if he wants to, to pay, if he does not want to, not to pay. In other words, it is not compulsory for you to be subject to these injustices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. For the amendments I will say tomorrow. I believe that this bill, if it had been out of hand and had worked even better - you will certainly tell me, as the previous speaker said, you have had eleven months - if we had more chance of intervening, I believe that the results would be even better. And they expect from you, from the Ministry, a comprehensive plan for the ELGA in order for people to know what they will receive if they are really damaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ahmet. The Minister has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, many questions have been raised particularly with regard to parliamentary control. I'll have the time tomorrow to answer. But I really want to devote my speech to the bill, of course, stressing that today is an important day for the Ministry of Rural Development. In the morning, as you all know, we announced the final timetable for payments of basic aid. Here we go. On Wednesday, the rights tables per VAT are posted. Payments start on Friday and end on Monday. We have chosen consciously, although we were ready in the last fortnight of November, to pay after December, because the Rules allow us to give 90% of the clearance and not 70% of the advance we could make in the previous period. So, without delay - I repeat - payments are made. At the same time, we have cleared and cleared loose ends starting in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012. It was all the trouble. So all this by the end of 2014 will be paid by 15 December. The next period, that is, EUR 1.2 billion, will invade the province and what that implies for an area that really needs it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is also an important day for the Ministry of Rural Development, because we are currently starting our parallel programme in the rural area with this legislative initiative - and I stress that a draft law is coming to the House after four years - and above all, of course, because, with the proposed draft law, we are implementing a national plan for a sector, the livestock sector, which is the sector that responds to two questions in the rural area. The first is called upon to cover our country's nutritional adequacy, to cover not only the inhabitants but also the visitors. You all know that over 2 billion is the deficit in the commercial balance of agricultural products, mainly due to animal products. The second is called - and should - to serve is the competitiveness of Greek agriculture through an added value that only the quality status of livestock products is the one that can be achieved. So this is why today is important. At the same time, of course, we want to serve, at least for those who embrace the country's European path, the uninterrupted absorption of Community aid. Of the 2.8 billion more than 500 million are coming for the livestock sector. Our country has not only used up aid in recent years correctly, but has also become a championship country in the European Union in fines and charges, which exceed EUR 2.5 billion, a large part of which is, of course, due to the management of pastures. We have, ladies and gentlemen, the highest percentage of wild land, 67%. In other words, forest land of 79 million acres, while it is roughly 52 million acres, could not have been convincing by the previous governments to the European Commission for its self-evidentness, that is, woody vegetation in our country. We have been stressing it for years. It became a successful end of 2014, taking responsibility as a country for the drafting of management plans and the commitment to start paying fines. From my first signatures, when I went to the Ministry of Rural Development in my first term of office in January, it was the first instalment of EUR 300 million from the state budget. I have to answer a question which has been raised both in the consultation and in the debate in the committee: it has not been possible to deal with the matter with a simple amendment, how much more so when there is a risk that these areas will lose their character. There is no question of any provision in the bill about changing the forest character of land which is part of the grazing land. Our commitment to use them for grazing even more ensures the ban on changing use. And since in most regions of the country, these areas are linked to the presumption of public ownership, there is a stronger presence of the rights of the public. What are we doing, ladies and gentlemen, on the legislative initiative? Firstly, we have been legally linked for many decades, at least a hundred years, to the state's legislation to demonstrate that the area concerned has been managed together with livestock farming and their use as grazing land. Secondly, we are creating, for the first time in our country, a national geographical base, given the necessary grazing land, without any one - I repeat - if we are to allow for a change in the character of forest land. This database will be updated and will be the container through which the areas eligible for grazing are collected. We therefore move on to the distinctly institutionalisation of our proposal, not only because the specificity of the database is necessary, but also because the terms'management plans' are introduced for the first time in the legal arsenal of our country. Of course, it would have been better if the National Land register had been completed, that forest maps had been ratified, that all uses of land had gone ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot wait any longer. We are aware of the problems we will have in implementing this law, but we will deal with them. At this point we have already completed the provisional management plans and our aim was to record the grazing areas, their existing status and their use status on a pan-Hellenic scale, with modern technologies, in order to make their precise surfaces known, their pasture, their Libyan situation. Generally, with the completion of the temporary plans, we will have taken stock of their nature. Of course, these plans will be made public by the law vote. There has been a lot of talk about the rights of farmers. It's all set up. There will be no problem in their payments. It is certain that more money will be given this year, at least, than what has been given to them last year. But I'll take you further. Even in the slightest case, if there is a problem with the patenting of their rights, individual cases, then we will use evidence from the provisional plans. This has been discussed and agreed with the European Union. So there is no problem. It's from there and beyond what we're doing. What are we doing with the definitive plans, which are really serving our visionary approach to livestock farming and in particular to the sheep and goat sector. These will be drawn up at regional level. We did a lot of procedures, consultations. Finally, we have come to the conclusion that this is the right solution. Because with regionalisation, throughout Greece, we have had problems like what we have experienced in previous years. We must have farmers from Laconia and take the land to Epirus. And farmers from Epirus are in Evros and the charges are constantly coming. We had to deal with this, and we dealt with it by aiming at regional units. In addition, the management plans will define the interventions and improvements to vegetation which are considered necessary to increase grazing capacity. For the first time, grazing is the measure for the sustainable management of these areas. Upon completion of the final study, the grassland is divided. One thing came up: Why grazing land and why pasture? The grazing land is the potential areas that can be grazed. Boscots are those areas which are considered eligible, in particular by the European Union Regulation. We will therefore allocate these areas to individual libadic units, which will then be allocated to farmers in order to personalise their use and to stop the present status of grassland sharing, which is the main cause of their degradation. Each livestock holding will have its own Lithuanian unit. The multifunctionality of natural meadows will also be recognised in the management plans. Their basic function, which is grazing agricultural animals, will not ignore any potential for simultaneous production of more than one product, for example aromatic, apiculture products, seedlings, etc. It has been said by many: "But is it possible to coexist with aromatic plants with goon sheep or mushrooms?" Cocoa sheep do not eat either aromatic plants or mushrooms. Of course, we are also aiming at ensuring through these meadows and other services. For example, soil protection against erosion, high aesthetic landscapes. And of course, we must bear in mind that these are also habitats for the wildlife of our country. All this will coexist. That multifunctionality will exist. At the same time, however, we should bear in mind that it will offer farmers a green and tender grazing matter for most of the year in order to limit the use of ready-to-eat feed, which means quite simply that there will be a parallel reduction in production costs. Over 500 million euros a year - for those who know - are paying for the introduction of soybeans. The natural grasslands are also valuable for their cultural environment and livestock products, which are linked to specific locations and traditional production processes, which are related to the cultural heritage of our country's country. Ladies and gentlemen, in all countries, and in particular in the European Union, the natural conditions prevailed were those which had an essential role in shaping the practices applied in agriculture. On this basis, particularly in the northern countries - where they had natural grassland - grazing had been linked to these grasslands. Our livestock, however, - especially livestock in the Mediterranean countries, in the mountainous disadvantaged regions - also had what we call wood vegetation. The fact that the majority of grazing lands are forest lands, which are covered by a small or a large part of woody plants, explains why they are reared in our country and animals from ancient times. These farm animals are characterised as a branch of herds because they can feed with vinegar, bushes or trees, unlike sheep as vegetarians and which are fed with herbs, herbs. It is no accident that gauzes and sheep together created mixed herds, which aim to exploit both cases of grazing material. And, of course, this grazing matter is the product of our own sheep and goatmeat, and it was the coexistence of these herds, which were finally trying to meet the requirements of curdling the production of milk of all the ovine and caprine animals, which led them to feta with that composition and which finally became a product that has now come to be considered as the flag of the European Union's geographical indications. And there, ladies and gentlemen, you know that we have not given the battle we should. We are fighting right now, this monograph that has been entered into the agreement with Canada to use the term feta, to overthrow it. It's a tough fight. And the worst of all is that other countries which come to sign agreements with the European Union consider this to be a given one. So you realize that this is where a great battle is needed. And it takes a great deal of battle, because today, ladies and gentlemen, particularly for the products of sheep and goatmeat, it opens up a great deal of their promotion, their demand for the world market. Already calf milk is a milk which is being demanded very much in the Nordic countries. You all know, already with the feta, the yoghurt demand is too great. That is why we think it is time for the sheep and goatmeat that is, at least for our country, the main livestock sector to have its own pasture. After all, this was also institutionalised by the recent regionalisation of the country as part of the new CAP, defining as one of the three regions to be financed that of pastureland. [[At this point the time bell ends the Minister's time is ringing.]] Two more minutes, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not fragmented - I repeat - the forest area with the management plans. On the other hand, since there will be the livestock area, farmers will be confined to their area, defended as such and effectively linked to their survival in the countryside with this area. I would like to put another paragraph for half a minute, since today is a day of climate change. In a recent debate we had on this issue of linking climate change to rural space, I tabled a proposal, that of the need to highlight a new natural ecosystem, the agro-foodstuff, which can make a significant contribution to tackling the effects of climate change, and this is the natural ecosystem that emerges from the management plans that we are discussing. Ladies and gentlemen, since grazing land, as I have told you before, can be calculated, and then the number of animals - grazing - we say so - which can be grazed on a case-by-case basis. Only in this way can we control grazing over a period of time - and tension - the number of animals that will grazing - and as long as it is time to save this huge legal resource of the country. So I would ask you to vote for the legislative initiative in Greece after minding the future image of the sheep and goatmeat sector within five thousand to ten thousand libraries. Livestock and the forest need it. And I am really glad that this regulation seems to be being found defenders in a very large part of the political world. Do not deprive the joy - I would say - of your self to stand in a space through a real arrangement that will solve problems and above all ensure a great future for the space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u148	We are now entering the circle of Members' speeches. Mr Kasapidis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u149	That was the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u150	What was it? They will be altered with MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u151	Miss, you interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u152	Miss? When?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u153	You interrupted at four, and then you violated the deal...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. We have heard the speech by the honourable Minister, who has been so zealous and well-meaning that he has shown a future reality, which has nothing to do with the present draft law that we are discussing and which we are called upon to vote on. And it is clear from the outset that we as a New Democracy: for a draft law which most of the provisions come from our own processing - which, the SYRIZA side then, as an opposition, stirred up and did not vote for - we come and support it simply because it solves some - unaware of course, it has been late - management and only accounting problems, mostly and some management issues related to them in the same way as the distributions of pastures. Alas, Minister, if this is where your vision of the primary sector is contained. If your vision is just this management intervention, and even in the eyes of legislation, while it could be in three ministerial decisions, then the madness of today for farmers is not right. We recognise good intentions, but we are also obliged to highlight the lack of political and strategic and productive reconstruction plan today, ten months after the country's governance by the Left. For two years now, we have heard SYRIZA promise, among other things, the positive message of the existence of a second plan, of the production reconstruction plan, but today, when it is a critical moment, we have all waited for us to listen and put forward proposals, to help with what the country needs today, we have heard a report of ideas. Yeah, it starts what started already - probably continuing - the establishment of these pilgrimage management plans with a four-year horizon. We therefore need to wait four years for what was said by the Minister. It has not described anything that has been described in practical terms and in particular in relation to the primary sector policy and in particular in relation to livestock farming, on serious problems of production rather than management. Yes, the country was paying fines. Clearly, they should have been arranged. It's accounting, it's management. It is not entirely political, as the Minister tried to show it. As is also not the responsibility and it is not the duty of the Minister to announce from this step forward that subsidies will be paid, which is within the accounting planning of the Second Directorate of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the Ministry of Economy. If we produce as a political news from the Minister from this Step that subsidies will be paid. We're looking for the substance. Minister,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u156	But then he managed to put them, Mr. Casapid, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u157	This is critical. We can do this in the accounting review. Mr Kegeroglu, we are all interested in this, I believe, in political criticism. That is why, Minister, we say again: take the initiative - you are the government - to start the debate on the opening of the debate on the establishment of the productive reconstruction plan for the country. It is an opportunity now, which the Prime Minister has probably forgotten to mention in his proposal for immigration and insurance. Where are we going to find the equivalents to prevent the 26% tax, which you said 'we are looking for the equivalents'? Where do we get them from? Where are we going to find the equivalent of supporting the farmers' insurance fund, the OGA? Only cuts and budgetary measures will we find equivalent? Where is the mix of development policy and fiscal consolidation? You were accused of being Opposition - and you did well - of your work, the previous and the previous government, that it is ubiquitously implementing the measures of lenders and Memorandums. You're not doing anything else. It is simply that you are heavily burdened with the primary sector and the private sector. So far, farmers are recording from your own policy, Minister, the increase in production costs, through the increase in VAT from 13% to 23%, the reduction in excise duty on oil by 2017 and the abolition of excise duty on wine as a 'national product', which we are talking about at producer level, is essentially a new type of ENVIA on the wine-growing land of order - if all the costs are transferred to the winegrower, which produces four hundred litres of wine, if it actually suffers from taxation and does not share in the entire production chain - of eighty euros per acre. Also, because we are discussing the livestock bill, I would like to remind you that you have brought the proposal - and you have voted for it - for the extension of fresh pasteurised milk to eleven days. Then you were blaming and you did well. We agreed on the independent side. I have the right to invoke this, Minister, because then we were fighting together for feta and for milk. But you forgot the fight. You didn't support them. We then denounced milk for seven days and you took it for eleven days. You're talking about fighting the feta. I listened very carefully. The battle of feta is now in the hands of the Prime Minister. Don't try to hide the responsibilities that they are to you anymore. Yes, there have been mistakes from the previous government. It was a repetition that was given the name so unfoundedly in the negotiation with Canada. Now you can and it's a fighter to withdraw it. It's Mr. Tsipras' case to change that decision. Then we will only be able to say that something of what the Minister said after four years of grazing, with ovine and caprine animals and feta, can be done. We need to organise an integrated operational plan for ovine and caprine animals - that is what we expected to hear today, Minister - which will solve problems, but will give direction and perspective to increasing sheep and goat milk, to increase cheese production, to cover part of the world demand of five hundred thousand tonnes. Today, we produce ninety thousand tonnes and we have a chance to double the size. What does that mean? This means that in the already three hundred thousand permanent workers' jobs in livestock farming we will have another hundred fifty primary jobs, if only double the production of feta. What emerges through a project is the main priorities that the Greek people and especially the rural world expect. So let us not create impressions, Minister. We better keep tons low and say 'yes, we take this first step, but we ask for proposals too, if we do something better'. With regard to the draft law in itself, on the principle that we are obliged to discuss today, it does not have a clear principle, because, as I said, it is management and speaks of the start of the implementation of the grazing management plans, which is a formal procedure. So we also agree that it should be done much faster, because it will not be useful and beneficial, since it will be over in 2019, and from this year onwards, from 2017 onwards, OPEKEPE will not take any action and will not benefit from any failures - which you said - from the new management plans, since the definitive plans will be ready in 2019. So that's what you could do with CFD. You didn't. You could also make another basic contribution to this bill, which does not solve the problem, substantially prolongs it. It shall be extended to the time limit for issuing the authorisations of staging establishments with no authorisations. You are also giving an extension. And that could have been done with a C.T.A. However, there could also be a provision here for these rough accommodations, which are operated without the necessary permission and for some other accommodation, which cannot be licensed either in settlements, which you are giving the extension here without tabling a relocation plan - that is what farmers would expect today to hear from you - but also from some other accommodation that is or is not a rough interpretation, because it is not a proper interpretation of the circular and the law from the local services within the county or between services of different counties, you do not solve this problem and we have also pointed it out to the committee. So give a broad interpretation of the circular and the law to obtain permission from these facilities, which are in the mountains and which produce and are not in the definition of "with sheet and with wood", as the circular says as hand-to-hand accommodation, but also have some other materials and some stones and some more inert materials. Give those people the chance to get permission. Also, the article, which is essential in the bill, for the import of multiplier material, without the necessary checks by the committee responsible, the TPY, which you are bypassing, but without having a licence for the import of multiplier material, says, Minister, that it is a European directive and a requirement. All right, let me take it. TYPES, this committee which can be an instrument in your hands that will provide you with an evaluation report on this measure if it is implemented in this way, why did you not use it at the outset so that you could then negotiate something in Brussels? Because I told you what the danger is, Minister. The way you formulate it enables individual producers for their own use to carry propagating material from abroad. And I tell you that at least two countries in Europe and our neighbours will accept the circulation and cultivation of mutated plants on their territory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Madam President. If, then, our producers from these countries will get multiplier material, are we not talking about a window of the coming of the mutants into our country through this process? At that time, we denounced and criticised the decision - unfortunately, the previous Minister, Mr Tsavritaris, did not react - for the uninterrupted circulation on the European market of honey containing mutated pollen without labelling, and you are now actually closing your eyes to what can rather be done by producers and indeed by covering the law. With regard to Article 18 for the management of expired pesticides, you are making an effort to improve it legally, but Mr Minister, it remains the risk of ineffective control of the final preparation, which has expired and is called upon by the trader who manages it to give it a review and to give it a new expiry date. Who will effectively check whether the active substance itself actually remains stable and will not cause any problem when it is used legally? Here we have serious reservations and objections. It is incomprehensible in Greece of the 21st century to talk about the use of finished pesticides for a modern agriculture. If we're going to throw the cost away that way, then we lost the essence. And I shall end, Madam President, so that we do not blame the previous Minister, Mr Tsataris, for having referred to an inaccuracies in the integration of the bushes as grazing in Greek legislation. Mr Tsavritaris has done so in principle in the European Union. You may have signed it, but it's a negotiation of the same. So it is your case that we are proposing to you, which we are ready to submit, to help establish this plan for productive reconstruction for the country with emphasis on the primary sector and, above all, for livestock farming. It is at your discretion, Minister, to take the initiative and ask them for support with proposals and not for a management plan, which is, anyway, a matter of accounting settlement and nothing more. Thank you, Madam President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u158	Now, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis, for an amendment, since, as is clear from a document from the Secretary-General of the Government, he will represent the Government tomorrow on the 102nd anniversary of the association of Crete with Greece, which will take place on Tuesday, December 1st in the city of Chania. Mr. Polakis, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u159	Six to seven minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much. You have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u161	Thank you for the overcoming. As the President said, I will represent the government in celebrating the association of Crete with Greece and I cannot support the amendment tomorrow. This amendment, which we have tabled today, solves a number of very acute and pressing problems facing the health sector. We've made the respective announcements. As a result of the accumulation of legislative work, we need to prevent some deadlines and dates, which is why it is being tabled as an amendment. The first paragraph of this amendment, with a general number 78 and a special number 21, refers to the extension of the term of office of auxiliary staff currently serving in public hospitals and primary health structures, whether doctors or other staff. The term of office of staff shall be extended to 30-9-2016, which shall be null and void. That is, they are about seven hundred medical staff and about five hundred and fifty other staff, whose majority term of office - not all - expires on 31-12-2015. However, for them, the term of office of which ends in January and February, is to be extended until 30-9-2016. We therefore give a deep breath to the system pending the completion of the permanent recruitment of nine hundred and eighty-five staff, which has already ended the notice and is currently being chosen by the AACC, the ninety and sixty doctors who are proclaimed - ninety for the primary school in December, six hundred in February - together with the thousands of eight hundred in the rest of the staff. So it will be possible for the system to continue to operate with a relative staff adequacy with all the gaps that we all know it has and where we are trying to fill. Paragraph 3 of the amendment, which extends the possibility of extending the scope of the extension to qualified doctors who are currently serving in the health system and whose contract ends. We are widening this possibility. So far it's been two semesters. We're doing four semesters. We give the opportunity, even if they take the title of specialty during this extension, to be able to remain in this position and to offer their services as a skilled person if this is not requested by a new skilled person. We also give the possibility, even if the position is requested, if there is another vacancy in the same clinic, in a hospital, or even in another hospital, and if the doctor wishes it, that he can continue to stay and offer his services. There is also a great breath of staff in the system, because unfortunately with the Brain Drain that has been done in recent years - the Memorandum - at the moment, from nine thousand total skilled posts, they serve seven thousand, creating a huge and acute problem in many functions, in many clinics. With paragraph 5, which is also an immediate intervention that has been regulated by circular and is now regulated by law, we are able to extend the movements of staff that ended up to 1-5-2015 - we have extended them with circulars - until the end of the year so that people who have been moved into legislation can also be covered by legislation. Because with the bill that comes we change the landscape as a whole throughout this process of movement and distraction, as there are too many requests pending, we thus give the opportunity to continue operating a series of sections - through these moves - and not disturb their operation. From there on, the next paragraph, paragraph 6, and paragraph 7, refer to a chronic problem of hospitals with regard to on-calls and to which we are giving a very serious solution in our opinion. That's two reasons for the problem. Firstly, for a number of hospitals where additional on-calls are being carried out, in addition to those provided by the law that the doctor has the right to do, we extend this possibility not only to hospitals, but also to the OLAF which has been lawless up to now, to doctors of the OLAF and health centres. These additional days are estimated at 9%. So far, they've been counting per hospital. With this provision that we are now doing 9% is calculated over the U.S. system, so that the possibility of using the same revenues as there is in hospitals or in the U.S. hospitals, but that some hospitals do not need it, can transfer it and cover the needs of additional newspapers to other hospitals in need. This provision is a very serious problem, and that is why we are legislating. It covers hospitals in need of additional newspapers, in addition to five for the qualified and seven for the qualified, who have the same revenue to pay them. Paragraph 7 is provided for because there is a major issue in many other hospitals, due to the cuts made in previous years. The money is not enough for them to be paid for the regular on-calls - not only the regular on-calls of medical staff, but overtime, nights, exceptionally, overtime of all other staff, which is a very serious problem for too many hospitals and small and large. Because these were the estimates of the budget. So what do we do? We allow these on-calls or overtimes to be paid - regular, not additional - from the hospitals' own revenues, i.e. revenues received from the EEAS for the payment of hospitals or for laboratory tests for the health establishments of the CIDs, as well as revenues from the Aerospaces paid by the EEA. We are therefore able to make these additional appropriations available, in addition to the budgetary appropriations available, so that hospitals and health centres can pay the regular on-calls and overtime for medical and other personnel. The last paragraph of the amendment relates to the extension of the operation of the National School of Public Health by one year until the Agency is completed. If this extension is not granted from 1 January 2016, the National School of Public Health is in the air and cannot be financed by the Ministry of Health. We are now in a process of processing and integration of organisations that have stayed in the air in too many health structures, both in hospitals and in ICUs and in various other supervised bodies. We don't have time to complete them, as you understand, until 31-12-2015. That is why we are giving this extension. Because in the first half of the year there will really be a great deal of work in relation to hospital agencies. And we're giving this extension. Also, something I forgot about paragraph 3 is for subsidiary doctors. It is about legislating for doctors recruited as advisors in specific serious units, such as intensive care units, pups intensive care units, transplant units, etc. And also adding the EAW, the Pollution Center, the artificial kidney units, TGs, oncology departments and mental health units, to be able - the auxiliary doctors - to be recruited with a three-year horizon. It's another motive, because another thing to hire for a year and another thing to hire for three years where you can plan your life. It's another motive for doctors to choose to place them. These are the measures contained in the amendment. I think they respond to the real needs of hospitals and medical and all other staff and give the clear signal of the government, which will be completed with the bill to be voted on, that we want to support the public health system, to 'health' it with staff. And that's why we're putting it down. Because we need to be able to make a few dates and regulate the possibility of paying these people. Because the nurse in Iannina, who makes double shifts at night and is within the limit of twenty hours of the law, cannot be paid. It has to be paid. That's why we found this way, so we can pay them. And one last word, if I may. As a farmer's son now, I'd like to talk about the bill. In fact, Mr Apostle, you are solving this problem, no matter how misinterpreted by the opposition. As Mayor of Sfakion, I experienced this from very close to the point of view of pasture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u162	Because you don't know, there's no remorse from the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u163	Wait a minute. I'll say a word. I know very well. My father was a livestock farmer, my dear fellow Member, and I know very well what rights mean and that the pasture had to be a meadow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u164	That doesn't exclude some people from knowing the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u165	Wait a minute! This actually multiplys the area that can be declared today, so it can be subsidized. I would like to congratulate you on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u166	You voted against her last year. Thank you for the retrospective acceptance!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u167	You never brought her!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u168	A parliamentary spokesman and the Deputy Minister took part. I will give the floor to two speakers, Mr Karayannis and Mr Koutsoukos. Mr Panagiotaros will be followed as a parliamentary representative and we will continue in the order of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, will the amendment be tabled now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u170	The amendment has been tabled. Mr Polakis, has the amendment not been tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u171	Of course it has been filed and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u172	And it's been distributed, from what I hear. It's number 78/21. Mr Karayannis has the floor for seven minutes. Respect the time, so they can talk as many as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the following issues are dealt with in the best and more rational way, which are directly related to the future of our country's livestock farming: Firstly, the chronic and crucial issue of the preservation of grazing land is being settled, not only to ensure aid of EUR 500 million per year from the new CAP, but also to stop the European Union's fines. Secondly, the biodiversity of mountain and semi-urban areas is protected, due to normal grazing, and the background to the sustainable development of ovine and caprine animals in these less favoured areas is strengthened. Thirdly, the cost of production is significantly reduced and serious infrastructure problems are solved in livestock facilities, which we know firsthand in Epirus. Fourthly, the conditions are created for rational management of history for our country of shepherd: Indigenous and extinct sheep breeds, ideal diet, milk quality, production of high nutritional and quality products. Fifthly, the qualitative difference in ovine and caprine milk is guaranteed for the real support of all the PDOs for geographical indication, mountainous, traditional and "Natura" of our livestock products and especially of feta, which is the flagship of our cheeses. Let me note here that 85% of Greek cheeses are produced exclusively from sheep and goat milk. Sixthly, the necessary conditions are created for a substantial improvement in the problem of self-sufficiency and the foundations are laid for the reconstruction of livestock farming in our country. In this sense, we can talk about a bill with prospects and clear development features. Unfortunately, today, our country is a deficit in the main livestock products, such as cow's milk, beef and pigmeat, so that we import 65% of milk, 90% of beef, 67% of pork and 25% of poultry. The total amount of the corresponding imports exceeds 2.5 billion a year with what this entails in our trade balance. Since 2010, according to data from the Greek livestock organisation “ELGO PIMTRA”, Greek livestock farming has been showing a steady decline, which reaches 10% in ewes and 14% in goats. The production of feta from 2011 to 2013 decreased by three and a half thousand tonnes due to an increase in the price of feed. I do not want to go on with the excellent findings. It is well known to all who brought us into this situation. We are not here, however, to be misled, but we are here to give solutions to the major problems and to return a page to the place, in extremely difficult circumstances. That is why I will focus on the rest of my speech on the core of this bill, which is to support our national product, the feta. The feta, as known, is produced from sheep and goat milk - 70% -30% - and requires four kilos of milk for one kilo of cheese. Greek production in 2014 amounted to ninety-five thousand nine hundred seven tons. Exports amounted to forty - three thousand eight hundred fifteen tons. World demand for the product exceeds five hundred thousand tonnes per year. It was established as Greek PDO on 25 October 2005 by a judgment of the European Court of Justice. For information, Greece is in the third place in the European Union, as far as the number of cheeses it produces is concerned, behind France and Italy with twenty PDOs in a total of one hundred and twenty-six. Greeks are the first people in the world to consume cheese, 27.5 kg per year. A large part of the domestic consumption, however, occupys imported yellow cheeses in a relationship of about 60% -40%. All of this advocates, not only the need to develop ovine and caprine animals in Greece, but also the development of a national feta strategy for both the world market and the regaining of its lost percentages domestically. In order to be able to do this, however, it requires, firstly, the creation of an interbranch organisation for feta standards in Italian parmesan, which will have the ultimate management of the product. Secondly, strict control over all kinds of milk, mainly from neighbouring Balkan countries intended for feta. Third, strict control in the production units for the use of technical means of enlargement in milk and overthrow the relationship 4 to 1 or for reducing the cost of production leading to high price fluctuations on the market, with devastating consequences for both the product and the consequent producers. Fourthly, genetic improvement and development of local and extinct breeds. Fifthly, support for the cultivation of protein plants and feedingstuffs. Sixth, incentives for young farmers and producer groups, as well as support for the Ioannina Dairy School, the only pan-Hellenic Cheese School. Seventh, modern promotional effort for the prevalence of feta as a Greek product on the world market, especially after the European Union-Canada Agreement - CETA - and the dozens circulated with the term 'feta, white cheeses from various countries'. Eighth, submission of a dossier to UNESCO to include feta as a Mediterranean food product in the protection of the intangible cultural heritage of UNESCO. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the most black page in the history of Greek stockfarming was written in 2012 in Epirus and was the sale of "DOODONIS". The word "exploitation" is perhaps lenient if one thinks of the degraded price of a contest with many questions. For this reason, I submit to the Proceedings of the 2012 DODONIS Assessment Report, to be included in the relevant ‘watch of shame’ file made by executives of the company, as recommended by ATE, for a deliberate reduction in the price, with assumptions that are incompatible with economic science. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for seven minutes. Please be precise in time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. We are now talking about a bill from the Ministry of Rural Development on grazing land, but of all things is the bazaar, ladies and gentlemen. She has sheep and goats, feta and myzeth, previously talked about doctors and nurses, she has been introduced to higher education, she has suspicious provisions for VAT arrangements in technical companies. I hope, as Mr Paulakis has come here earlier, that the Minister for Finance will come to us tomorrow to explain these VAT arrangements. But let's get to the point. Minister, it is essentially the first bill to come from the Ministry of Rural Development, of which you are led by Genaris and which, according to what you have said, has, in the account you have presented, an integrated theory of pastures and the development of livestock farming. Be careful, in the theory we can agree, if your comrades agree to SYRIZA, that is, if you convince them that there is indeed a need to extend the pastures. We drew the thousands of millions when we brought to Parliament with Mr Tsataris the provision for wood vegetation. Here is to ask them what we were told, that we are destroying the forests, selling them out, known. I am therefore pleased that you have convinced them and will vote. So I don't want to fight about that theory you've developed. You developed it in a way that shows you have a bucolic, say, education. I don't know where you got it. Each of us has some recruiting performances and some origin. What matters is that this theory has been developed in an environment which is particularly bleak in the area of rural development, agricultural production and the necessary reconstruction to support the national effort. Take note now, Minister, I do not know how you felt, but I would not be proud as Minister to announce here that subsidies will be paid - which I could give in October - and that my colleagues applaud me, as if I had done any great achievements. You are doing your duty politically because of the lack of other policies and arguments, obviously. Now let's go see what difficult environment this theorem is being filed, this account. It is presented in an environment where the primary sector is tested, not only by the general effects of the crisis on economic units, but also by more specific policies that create additional problems in the functioning of production units and, in particular, livestock farming. Animal husbandry deserves special attention, since it is the production sector that binds the human factor 24/7. There's no other options. He has his job, his stanze, his herd, twenty - four hours a day, three hundred sixty - five days a year. So this man, based on what we have decided here in Parliament, will now buy his supplies with 23% more. This gives him a huge difficulty in supplying feed and other supplies. It's depriving him of liquidity. There's no reality. The market is dry and nobody credits him. He is being called upon to pay a higher tax, as we abolished the objective system and go to book-based taxation because we increased his advance payment and within a few days - it is budgeted - the arrangement that will increase the rates will come here. In addition, within a few days the arrangement that will increase its insurance contributions will come here. This is also included in the budget. Mr. Tsipras tried, of course, with these communal tricks to get us his choices. I think, however, that this was a communication game, which the most simple person understood where it was intended, because, if it were, Minister, you would give the farmer a third pension, as you were saying, you did not want a meeting in the Presidential Palace. You would give them yourself and the SYRIZA Members would applaud you here. Well, you're getting a little harder. This is a reality that has an impact on the everyday life of the farmer, on production and above all on its prospects. And to complete your account, beyond the the theory of grazing land, pasture, toast and woody, you should transform our parallel SYRIZA program into practice. SYRIZA's parallel program isn't what you said. The parallel programme of SYRIZA should be the compensatory costs incurred by farmers, it would be liquidity in the agricultural sector, which does not exist. It has remained in the hands of certain bankers and banks, which, by recapitalisation, go into the hands of foreigners. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen. Is there a liquidity mechanism? What is the parallel banking system said by Mr. Drasakis and the development bank? Of course there should be a policy of incentives for the legitimisation of stable establishments, because every time we give them an extension - we have also given them an extension many times - the procedures that are highly bureaucratic are not working, but because the process of legitimising stables is costly, the farmer looks at everyday life and every time he goes a little further back to earn time and money. You don't have that! I'm also glad you referred to the feta. If Vangelis Argyris were here - you know him very well - it would remind you of the history and the struggle for its safeguarding in the period 2000-2004 and the dangers of safeguarding this product, but we finally did it. It is up to you, if you think the terms of the agreement between the European Union and Canada are to be burdened with, to intervene there too. As far as the legislative procedure is concerned, I repeat that we would have no objection to the theory. But tell us: Since you have denounced us in the way you have denounced us at the time when we brought the bill on the extension of grazing land to cover the void that was in existence and allow farmers to enjoy what they deserve in terms of the single and equitable, why are you enacting the ministerial decision of May that passed us? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. What do you need to do with legislation? Is it not based on this, on laws and provisions, that this ministerial decision to make use of, to grant these rights? Why now, after the conversation, are you relegating it? This answer you have to give to us, so that we know what we are going to vote on. In any case, if I may finish, you have another answer to re-evaluate the agricultural medicinal products that have expired. Our rapporteur has said about large multinational companies and interests. I think you have nothing to do with this. I believe it, and I say it sincerely, but you must clarify the landscape, because I see other provisions that relax the legislation, Minister. That's the last point. In the municipalities responsible for the rural roads, that is to say, putting drinkers and caring for farmers in their daily lives, give them some of these pilgrimage rights. Don't give it all to the periphery. It's wrong, and I don't know why you're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. He was buried today after forty-one years - what am I telling you now! - Panagiotis Karaolis is late. Who is Panagiotis Karaolis? During the Turkish invasion of Cyprus he was eighteen years old and served at the 281 Infantry Order in the 3rd Lotus. He gave his life for Cypriot Hellenism. He was one of the thousands of six hundred nineteen missing persons who found his bones in 2013, identified and today his funeral took place. Unknown to most of them. It should be first news, it should be an example to be imitated, and it should certainly be a justification for not having a speech by Prime Minister Tsipras with Mr Erdogan. These days we have seen a crescendo of deprivation from our country - yes, indeed, we are valuing from everywhere - and we are giving them everything as the European Union. Turks are now proved to be the main responsible for jihadist support, as are the Turkish state itself and officially Erdogan's son and MIT's leader. Everyone admits it and everyone knows it. The evidence is indisputable and inconsistent. Turkey is responsible for the invasion, relocation - you say what you want - millions of immigrants, refugees - say it again - from Syria and elsewhere, as a major co-responsibility for this war in Europe. And while things, if the European Union and our country wanted, would be much easier to resolve, Turkey does what it wants. It took 3 billion in cash, took a visa to get the Turks and all kinds of jihadists Islamist into the European Union and to do what they want and start their accession negotiations. He took a lot and gave nothing at all, and the solutions, as we have said, are well known. This young man, who is one of the thousands of six hundred nineteen missing, is one of those who the various ethnicists, who have unfortunately flooded the public sector and services, are trying to eliminate them, so that we can forget them and thus become the best friends of the Turks, in a new Annan plan, which leads us to be brought into the plant by various ministers, Undersecretaries and various officials from both Greece and Turkey. Also like today, the anti-Semitic body of Lieutenant Katechakis - not only is he a highway, in honor of being named on the highway - smacked the comedians in Florina during the Macedonian Struggle and put a small stone in the liberation of Macedonia by the Bulgarians and the comedians. Katechakis, this hero Macedonian and all the other Macedonians, according to the new "poulou" of the Ministry of Education, the native Liakou, was a jihadist. Unfortunately, these stateless men are put on key points, these people who, of course, do not accept the Pontius Genocide, neither the Macedonian Struggle, nor the Revolution of 1821, nor anything. So we know what happened today and what happened today. Minister, this bill should be the beginning of the regeneration of the primary sector, of our wider agri-food world. It should be the beginning of the attempt to make our country self-sufficient in agricultural products or at least reach 1980 levels, when we were very self-sufficient in agricultural products and largely in livestock products. Furthermore, this bill should be the beginning of the protection of national production in any way and of the protection of Greek farmers, farmers and fishermen. Instead, with the third memorandum that you have brought and which was adopted by the Opposition, other than the Golden Dawn, you have brought VAT on all agricultural products and related products, which is an anchor to farmers and farmers. You managed to increase the agricultural oil vertically, to be banned and not at all competitive with other countries, such as Italy, which has flooded Greece's supermarkets and shops with agricultural products. And we wonder how that happens. This is how it is done, since the Italians have the price of oil for the farmers at least 1/3. You have succeeded both previous and you, with the measures you will now bring, with the famous OECD toolbox, which you have been building up and prosecuting as an absolute evil, now take measures for them and have fresh milk for seven days now - God and his soul! - 11 days. Obviously, there will be no water supplies for most of the import, because more and more units in our country are closing down. You have managed, by taxing everything, to make farmers freelance and to tax them properly, not considering that they have nothing to do with freelance professionals. You've managed - never heard of! - in a sector where in our home country only the private sector, in the wine sector, was trying to bring in a excise duty, the only one in a wine-producing country and make our product uncompetitive. And, of course, this excise duty will only be on Greek wines, Greek wines and not on imported wines. While the countryside wanted to have more vineyards, you managed - this is an old tactic, but you, Minister, should also be aware of this issue with rights, because you are well aware of the agricultural issues - to limit this right to the benefit of others, that is to say, so many years since Greece entered the European Union. We see a continuous decline in the way of alpha or beta in various crops for the benefit of third parties. Also, Minister, you should at some point see what you know better than me and everyone, namely soybean. On the substance of the matter, it is forbidden to grow in our homeland, because this is how two or three American companies produce more than 90% of world production. It is an extremely profitable crop, which, along with soybean oil, could very much help domestic production in many different ways. We have heard here from the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, but also from others, the comparison between 1981 and the present ones on grazing land. We are talking with this draft law about about one third of the grazing areas we had in 1981. Why? Who's limiting us? The European Union is restricting us. We read here about the distribution of grazing areas, as the President of the Federation of Thessaly farmers states, that the way the distribution took place is unfair to areas such as Thessaly, western Macedonia, eastern Macedonia, Thrace and Central Greece, while central Greece and the Peloponnese are on the same average and benefit the islands, Crete and Epirus. This means that most of our country does not benefit from these grazing areas that you go to determine. A terrible scandal, for which you are not responsible, Minister - and I wonder how the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK used it - was, in essence, the blockade of the name of the feta, perhaps the most powerful 'brand name' that our country has in the livestock - and not just - sector. Yes, we have forged the name within the European Union of about six hundred million Europeans, but with this agreement Mr Metarakis had made with Mr Tsavtaris - one was then putting the blame on the other, saying 'no, but you' or 'not you', but I', we're talking about ridiculous things at the time when they happened - we gave Canada the right to produce fetishes. We are talking about a huge country where, of course, the product will have nothing to do with the product of feta. It will be the beginning, the blindman, the boulder, so that now, in the new agreement between the European Union and the United States - the Americans are already pushing - they too can use the name 'feta' and soon all the world. What's the matter? At the moment, the earth’s population is about seven billion. If we only have six hundred million within the European Union, which will also be slimmed by Canadian or American products that have nothing to do with feta, then they really gave them a backward blow to domestic feta production. If we had the global exclusiveity of the name 'feta', we could have much more farmers, far more production and export of the product at all the lengths and backs of the earth, on new emerging markets, such as China, India, and billions of consumers, and not be strictly limited within the European territory. In the case of the sales scandal of the company "DODONIS" other speakers have already been mentioned. This is a disgrace. Since you are a government and now have the hens, you could start an investigation, a court or another, to see how the sale of this company took place, who was responsible and why it was responsible. Although most of the information has been published, we do not see any particular willingness from you to correct some bad texts that you have put up with until the outset. This is where you took Stournara your buddy. Until a few days ago it was the absolute evil, and now you eat with him, you decide and say what good he is and on the substance you hear him faithfully and convinced of what he tells you. Also, with all these increases that have taken place in recent years, we have also reduced the production of feta in our homeland. Instead of growing, it's falling. We see incredible things from the European Union, which we consider to be the Buddha, the guru and must not criticise. We see agreements concluded with third countries such as Tunisia, which is a country producing olive oil. Tens of thousands of tonnes of unscrupulous olive oil entered the European Union, competing with Greek olive oil, which should be protected in any way and not sign such agreements at the expense of our national products. Also, if you look at the tragic and the wrong tactics of the governments over the years, you will find that in the olive oil sector new players have been introduced, such as Turkey, which, from unpopular, incalculable power in the olive oil production sector, is currently hitting Greece on a straight footing. We saw from your Government, and Mr Kotzia in particular, that the first thing he has done has just sworn the SYRIZA government in January was to go to the summit in Europe and sign new sanctions against Russia. In fact, they also increased the products they should have banned Russia. We also see the results which many producers - peaches, apples, kiwi and others - are crying out their fate and where they have an organised company cannot sell their products at the moment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Madam President. Thank you. We see the fertilizer factories that have been closed all these years. They enabled these fertiliser plants in Greece to be supplied at a competitive price, rather than, as the imported fertilisers now, dependent on the pesticides of all those who are trying to impose, by means of globalisation, what they want. We have also seen the Agricultural Bank. That's possible! The Agricultural Bank has been sold out. We know. I know. Everyone knows that. The biggest scandal in recent years. And you're not doing anything at all. Instead, with the third recapitalisation, and with everything you have done, you have basically closed the banking system, some people have taken it, they will now also receive the red loans - which I see will not get - against a lentine billboard. In other words, housing seizures and anything else against Greek citizens will begin. So you should not celebrate in any way for this bill, which is questionable if it is successful, if it is better than before, but you should see not the tree, but the forest behind you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u178	I will give Mr Polakis the floor for a few minutes for a legislative improvement in the amendment. Mr. Karasmanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u179	Madam President, I would also like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u180	For a legal improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna need a few seconds. Legislative improvement is essential because of the demon blow of the printer! On page 4 of the amendment, paragraph 6 after the words ‘monthly compensation of regulars’, two lines were omitted which say ‘ordinary newspapers of all hospitals and of each OLAF. The amount of this percentage may be altered by a joint ministerial decision’ and then proceeds with what has been written. We are supplementing what has been omitted inadvertently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u184	Good. Written in the Minutes. Please testify and be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u185	Of course, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u186	Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u187	And I will be brief, Madam President. Two legal improvements I want to do. One in paragraph 3 of Article 8, where it is simply recast by adding the phrase 'and environmental'. The other improvement concerns the deletion of paragraphs 2 and 6 of the proposed article from Amendment 77/30-11-2015 of the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u188	I would ask that they be presented and distributed to the honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u189	I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u190	Come on, Mr. Karasmani. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not my intention to speak, but the Minister is forcing me. Why? Because after I left the Committee on Production and Trade yesterday, he found the opportunity, among other things, to say, when the Ministry received it, he found a set-up cost of EUR 4 million to prepare the management plans. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] In other words, he said that we would give EUR 4 million as a ministry for a mapping, for a display of land, and add that other projects such as this have been commissioned, but it is not the time for the Minister to deal with them. We will look forward to this time coming, too, to respond properly to our concerns, because it is a matter of honor and reputation. And as I have said to the committee, I assume responsibility for the six months that I was Minister. It would be a good thing for all of us, Minister, before we talk about remembering our ancestors, ancient ancestors, who said "do not precipitate the language of the mind", that is to say not to speak before we dive our tongue in mind. So let me inform this House and remind the Minister, because he is not aware of it, that there was no 4 million plan. We should put things in a row. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4264 voted in May 2014, does not even mention these 4 million. It merely mentions a joint ministerial decision that had to be adopted on 30-12-2014 with the signature of the two then Deputy Ministers, Mr Koukoulopoulou and Mr Tagaras. There is no commitment at all to expenditure of 4 million, on the contrary, it says that no expenditure is caused against the state budget. To complement that, if there was a commitment to such expenditure, the Finance Directorate should have made a commitment of 4 million and at the same time should have informed me to give the consent. So where did you get what you said, Minister? Get us the documentary documents here! Instead of words, I fell feathers from the safe! Ladies and gentlemen, I have always wanted to speak with information. In February 2015, the Association of Greek Farmers, TEK, made a proposal to the Ministry to undertake the planning of the management plans in fifty counties and the amount of the expenditure, which fell on the table with the officials, amounted to about 4 million euros. Be careful, please, I repeat: February 2015. This is where the infamous 4 million euros Mr Apostolos first discovered, that is, when he was the Minister himself. Apparently, he thought he was still in the opposition! And since I don't like it or ever did it, in the twenty years that I've been in this room, throwing mud into the fan, I rush to clarify that it was just a proposal of the CEC and nothing more. But there's something else. Mr Apostolos also went back to the issue of fines and said that we left him to sign when the Ministry took over and did so because otherwise, as he said, this would mean 'a stop to Community aid'. But, Minister, I was not the first time as Minister from this Step in October, and the day before yesterday I repeated it to the Committee on Production and Trade that we had been imposed on us a fine of 1 billion in 2009, 2010 and 2011 for pastures and that the first retention, in accordance with the Commission's decision - I stress this - took place in January 2014, the second in January 2015 and the third in 2016? Where is this whole procedure? Don't tell us that you didn't know, Minister, because in this case you should be complicating some people who haven't informed you. Let me inform you, then, that for every retention the Commission sends a document to the OPEKEPE and OPEKEPE informs the Minister concerned, who does not have to sign anything at all. Therefore, the 320 million you mentioned, Mr Apostleu, that you signed is just the amount of the second instalment, for which OPECE informed you at the beginning of February 2015. Nothing had to be signed, Minister, and we were not threatened by the Community's aid. If you signed this document, please put down the document for us to see it. Get back to the pasture bill. I also told the committee that this is a recast of the 2014 legislative framework in a new version. You also say this in your rapporteur's report that it is a codification of laws 4264/2014 and 4315/2014, as was the case. If there were problems or any ambiguities, there was only one ministerial decision or an interpretative circular and not that of the four meetings in committee and both in plenary. Of course, the most important thing is that there would be no delay in the payment of the aid. I told you and the committee that last year over EUR 1.5 billion had already been paid to the beneficiaries. It was a huge breath for a market that is narrowing today and is kneeling by the lack of liquidity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to stress here that, if the definition of pasture were not changed, including woody, torchy and vulgar areas, whatever laws we could bring, and you too, the major problem, which was solved definitively from 1-1-2015, would not have been solved. I hope you do not overlook, Mr Apostle, the fact of the brave support from us in the livestock sector through the new CAP, with the guarantee for our producers of EUR 450 million each year - 150 million more than the previous CAP will be given to farmers every year - nor, of course, the fact that, through the new CAP's national file, 25% of payment entitlements are granted to young farmers and young farmers. It should also be noted that the products provided with related aid include livestock refreshments, for adequacy and a reduction in feed costs. Do not even forget the provision of related aid to cattle, with a view to improving the commercial balance of meat and sheep and goatmeat, with a view to strengthening the production of quality milk for feta.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Karasmani, you've already spent all eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u193	Please, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u194	If you want, you'll be shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u195	...because it's a delicate matter, you have to give me the opportunity to answer. Other measures have been taken that I cannot develop. We must not forget, however, that for the first time with Community funds we have secured the compensatory compensation from 2015 to 2020. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to remind you that at the time of the Ministry's tradition I said that the solution to the thorny problems of agriculture is going through consensus and cooperation. And if you remember, I had inclined you to cooperate, as now, Mr Apostleou, the Prime Minister himself is asking for a strong consensus on dealing with critical issues. You have ignored my proposal. You also ignored that after the Ministry's surrender - unprecedented for political customs! - I came the next day to let you know, to open the files for more complete information. In fact, I proposed that you keep the same negotiating group for three to four months, stressing that this was extremely critical, as we had to make the decisions on the implementation of the new CAP, on the management plans, on the rights - which should have been announced in the first half of the year - on the consultations and on the closure of the rural development programme, which is still pending. This realistic proposal was accepted by your supervisor, Mr Lafazanis, at the time. You rejected it. You have wasted valuable time for the economy, because time for the economy, as you know, means money. Allow me to reply to the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, because for me it is a moral matter, Mr President, and I shall close immediately. He committed an atom, perhaps by ignorance. He said by my decision he opened a little window to get the private forests of the TIAD and sell them out. I'm not allowed by my idiosyncrasy and my politeness to describe it. I should like to say this: First of all, I had no responsibility for the forests, much more for the private forests. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change. Now, for the decision on the distribution of pastures, I have briefly explained to the committee that since 2012 the European Commission had forced us to implement an action plan, the so-called action plan, to record the eligible pastures, and the recording really threw the pastures to 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u196	Finish this, Mr. Karasmani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u197	I'm closing, Mr. President. Within this suffocating framework, we had to share the pastures with farmers, we had to give the highest percentage to them and, for the first time - it has never happened - in 2014, we gave 70% of the compensation rights and the rest we had planned for the first quarter of 2015. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance, but these are ethical issues and I had to say them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds for just half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u200	Staff? Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u201	For what Mr Karasmanis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u202	I have given the floor to Mr. Kyriazides. If you wish, you will be given the floor on the staff you are invoking, but you will tell us what the staff consists of. You will speak after Mr. Cryazides. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have been following your position with great satisfaction, which has taken place in recognition of the efforts of the previous government. I am speaking in particular of provisions contained in Laws 4264 and 4315, which you then denounced - not personally, I saw your difficulty - and you voted against. I am particularly pleased that you are coming to take a positive step today, recognising and drawing up a line of these provisions in a piece of legislation which, as has been said, could be dealt with by a ministerial decision. However, I think that the whole bill is positive from your point of view and that is why many of the provisions of this bill will also be passed on from the point of view of the New Democracy. But let us imagine that there was a provision such as this in your last amendment, which says: 'Since grazing land surrounds woodland or woodland segments, it is also possible to use grazing and interventions to serve...' and so on. Of course, as you can see, we could not even testify to this. You see, therefore, that you, too today, have tried to justify what fourteen Members of Parliament have tabled as an amendment to identify wooded and grass-rooted areas as grassland. Then you told us that we were trying to baptize forest ecosystems, as your journalistic party organ, the newspaper "AGEY", said. Today you are moving a step further. That is a good thing, because this is the way to go about drawing up plans on pasture land. We have to observe and point out something here. I come from a mountainous county, but also a fodder county. How exactly do you deal with this case, baptizing or trying to give another time to these pastures, weakening the possibility of subsidies, giving birth to many other problems? We see, however, that this effort on our part has been, so that they have an arrangement, a set-up by 2017. Unfortunately, the eligible pastures you carry for 2019. So it is two years gone, and it costs the livestock world as well. I have to note, Minister, issues that are created through the bill and which are borne by the farmer. As regards the right to use the pastures of each farmer, the amount of which is not fixed will be paid. Transfer this possibility from the municipalities to the region. You are thus weakening the municipalities from the possibility of carrying out specific, simple projects but very useful to farmers, such as drinkers, tanks, rural small roads that might also be used by farmers. There is a huge issue and a problem. Even the expenditure on management plans is carried over to the backs of farmers, through the fee they will pay for the use of pastures. These are issues that we need to see, Minister. For our part, the budget amounted to about 1 million for these very projects. Mr Kasapidis, our parliamentary representative, said about the duration of livestock facilities. You'll have to look at it here with a different eye. Plants have expired in terms of their use, but there are also facilities in which we could, through the bill, allow them to survive and, by extension, also by farmers. Of course, this provision on your part had been voted down, although you consider it very positive today too. Finally, Minister, I should like to refer to pesticides. You'll accept a lot of control. I would ask you to withdraw this provision because huge issues are being raised. We do not know how many tons of pesticides will be used, how and what the results will be. At this point, I would ask for your sensitivity, because there are also economists who such issues are denounced in a particularly strict manner. For our part, Minister, everything that is positive will be voted on. But for issues relating to complexity, such as the article on pesticides, we should be particularly careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. You have asked, Mr Mijo, for the floor on staff. Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u206	To avoid any misunderstanding, with respect, Mr Karasmani, with your ministerial decision under protocol number 22172 on 12-12-2014, the land was distributed. They left Evia and went to northern Greece and Thessaly. So I said to the committee that you have done well. Do not lose subsidies to these farmers. But not taking grazing land from some to give it somewhere else. Equal distribution must be made. You know our positions very well and how I have spoken about this matter. From that point on, I have an objection from the Southern Euboea Farming Association. They ask for the exception of their territory from the application of your decision. I have never mentioned that you are behind great interests. I stressed this today and stressed it again and now, so that there are no misunderstandings. Some people today have found a chance on this decision to tell these men tramplers and they want to take their land. I never said it was your name from behind. I stress it to make things clear. Some of the others are behind and took advantage of this situation today. You went, it happened what happened, but I would point it out again, yesterday with today. There's nothing for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u207	All right, thank you, Mr. Mijo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u209	Here you go, Mr. Karasmani. What do you want? Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u210	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u211	I think an explanation was given. Any misunderstanding may have been created...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Karasmani, you're not listening. On personal grounds, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u213	Yes, of course. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u214	Okay, you have the floor for a minute, please. Look, as we go, if this goes on, the Members' time will be reduced. Please do very much, if you can sooner than one minute, say what you want to say on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u215	A responsible politician is the one who bears and listens to the truth and the right politician is the one who tells the truth. In June 2014 until December 2014 when I was the Minister, I had to “strengthen the cycle”. I have found an action plan, the action plan imposed on us by the European Commission, which has reduced the grazings vertically and has had to be divided within this framework. If we were to falsify, violate the regulations, there was a decision by the European Commission to suspend subsidies, aids, completely. So, in this way, we tried to give compensation to the highest amount, and for the first time - I repeat - compensation for 2014 was granted in 2014, 70%, and the rest would give it in the first quarter of 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u216	All right, Mr. Karasmani, you've given the necessary explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u217	That's the reality. I don't have time to analyze it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u218	Okay, understand. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Socrates Famelos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill refers to grazing land - grassland, as many people have used to say here - and it is indeed an important part of the debate on productive reconstruction in the primary sector. On substance, the bill refers not only to the definition, but also to the management and use and distribution of grazing land and includes, within a relatively small legislative text, very important elements of the functioning of livestock farming in our country. It influences and improves, reduces production costs, supports production organisation, significantly interferes in animal hygiene and therefore also in the hygiene of products, fuels and supports the operation of traditional products and products of designation of origin, as well as the genetic capital of our country, especially the traditional functional elements of livestock farming, and of course enables us to develop planned infrastructure in the agricultural area and in the region as a whole, through organised and functional grazing projects that so far, in 2015, we did not have in Greece of the European Union and the Eurozone. However, there are two more important parameters, which I would like to highlight: The first is that this bill does not refer to cities, it does not refer to policing, but it gives us a decentralisation character to development, a key element of productive reconstruction, and, secondly, that we are talking about an object and we are solving problems for an object that enables us to fuel the country with sufficient capacity to produce products, but also to create export activity. It is a necessary bill, first of all, because this is the result of the great pressure from the European institutions on this issue. In practice, our country was irreversible in the management of grazing land and there is a direct need to change this regime, because we did not have a service either of farmers, of public interest and of the environment and of ecosystems. In practical terms, whatever was heard by this Step, there was no plan, as there has been in no area of economic production in the last fifteen years, because the only thing the officials of the Memorandum politicians have been seeking was to dismantle policies, because - as I will then show - their target livestock farming was that the rich should become richer and the poor should become poorer. The lack of organisation and planning has caused many, large and unresolved problems, a brake on the development of livestock production in recent years and, in practical terms, a failure to balance between growth and the natural environment, natural capital. What has practically been lost so far by bipartisanism in Greece is that it can be within the ecological component, in the environment, that there is a rate of growth for both the benefit of both the environment and the environment and the society and the citizens and the national product. Of course, the distribution of grazing land, which has already been temporarily carried out, within this bill, is also guaranteed, but we are also able to meet the needs and shortcomings in this distribution and in the next period to farmers and farmers, even though the problem for today has been resolved and we do not have a problem of distribution today. This was done by the SYRIZA and ANEL Government, not done by previous governments. Done in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u220	Pay first and then let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u221	We are also able to solve problems in areas where there will be fires and in areas where there will be new farmers. In practice, we give the new generation the opportunity to go back to the countryside, to take activities in this area, because there will be rights, there will be lots, there will be spaces to develop organised, combined with support for the environment. But what is the status of the primary sector today? What was the situation of the last fifteen years? Was there an objective subsidy scheme? Was there a black market in subsidies? Do we have a fine of 3.2 billion - if I'm not mistaken - starting with the Hatzigakis scandal? Is it true or is it all true? What governments have created these subsidies scandals? What governments were responsible so that the European Union is now chasing our country and asking for the money of Greek taxpayers, in addition to what we are doing with the memorandums? Was it the governments of PASOK and New Democracy or New Democracy and PASOK? However, it was certainly neither SYRIZA nor the Independent Greeks nor, of course, the Ecumenical Greens. Of course, in this environment of subsidisation, we have had multiple violations of the rules, because there was quite simply no rule of law in the countryside either. There was a conscious deterioration of the cooperative movement and an extensive corruption that led to both closure and depreciation of value, the essence of collectiveness. There was a withdrawal of geotechnics from the field, because geotechnics and scientists were no longer left by the producer. There was a great deterioration in infrastructure, because no new investments were made. Unfortunately, there was also at the level of the production plan, that is, a reproduction of conservative stereotypes, which did not allow young farmers and Greek farmers to go either to agriculture or to livestock farming to be remodelled, reconstructed and new innovative products. Because all this was fuelled by a system that you supported in intermediaries, traders, big dealers, equipment dealers, importers of equipment, but which the Greek craftsman of agricultural equipment was downgrading it, because you did not care about Greek domestic added value, but only about how the big and the banks would sell loans, get supplies, buy property. There was no design in agricultural production. It is not just a question of organising the livestock sector through the grazing land and the areas for farming. It is a question of creating a plan in new categories and in new development routes, because this system, which has so far existed, has been fuelled from one side with a bubble of loans and subsidies. Let me tell you, however, that it was fuelled and supported and fathered by big farmers, farmers, farmers, who really took advantage of subsidies, with the back of the parties of bi-communism, and the farmer of the land did not receive a subsidy or received too little. So, quite simply in rural areas, the rich and those who had "tooth" became richer and the poor paid, worked, produced, but became poorer. That is why today the rural area is struggling and looking for a way out, because it has become poorer with the policies that have been implemented. How do the partners so far view the Coupling and the previous governments? With lies. By lies and by paraphilology. For example, how else could there be a debate rather than saying: 'Beware of the farmers' tax?' Why don't we tell the truth what happened in 2015 about farmers' taxation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u222	What happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u223	I was amazed by the fact that the rapporteur of the Anti-Population Officer hides that compensation is taxless, by law of 2015, SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. Why are we hiding this from Greek farmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u224	12,000 or more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u225	Why are we hiding that with our own government there is a tax-free EUR 12 000 on subsidies? Why, then, what is the reality? Why are we hiding that, with the referendum and with the elections, we have been able to prolong for two years the increase in the tax rate, which your partners, the European People's Party and Mr Weber wanted to put into the Greek agricultural world? Why are we hiding all this? Didn't SYRIZA do it? Didn't that government do it? I think we should get used to telling the truth. Watch out. They're accusing us of the little brewery thing. But we know very well - and we in SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks - that the complaint of small breweries and Greek breweries is that their case is ten years in prison in the Competition Committee, obviously with governments of New Democracy and PASOK, because you have not defended the Greek breweries against the interests which create multinational and monopolistic exploitation of the beer area. Is it a lie? The complaints in the Committee on Production and Trade were clear. The fact that this was the content of the package Mr. Hatzidakis asked the OECD, as a toolbox 2, is that a lie? So try your own policies to support them in SYRIZA. We, however, have to talk to society. Because, otherwise, society will begin to believe that this year, for example, we have a recession of 4%, as you said three weeks ago here, but in the Committee on Budgets, you know very well that the recession in GDP has been zeroed. And the Greek society must understand with us that we must look our way and not your virtual reality, which you create to reproduce your own, if you want, power. Our thinking about the primary sector goes along with productive reconstruction. We believe that the primary sector cannot have 4% in the Gross National Product. It cannot be linked to processing, in order to give domestic added value, to be powered by technology and innovation and by processing, so also by industry, in the Greek region, with Greek hands and by Greek scientists. Because that is the only way we will be able to feed and maintain the Greek potential here, but to give our products another name that they will be able to compete better abroad. There are many areas that will follow or have to follow this bill, such as brokers, the trading system and the lending and financing of producers, farmlands, the tax scale for farmers, science and technology and geotechnics, and above all, a new cooperative framework and, possibly, tax relief for producer groups and groups of farmers so that they can compete, with a new co-responsibility and cooperativeness, with foreigners. In the piece of grazing earth, however, was there a problem and we had to solve it? There's been a lot of noise. For example, it was heard that Mr. 4264 had solved it. Ladies and gentlemen, lying has short feet. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4264, invoked by the Opposition, only had an article on pastures. And if, in any case, it had solved the problem, why do you vote on the bill today? I wonder. Since the problem was unsolved and we didn't have to do anything, why do you vote for the bill? Quite simply, because it was also necessary to systemize and organise, but also to design for the future. This bill does not only solve the problems of distribution and rights, but also enables livestock farming to organise new subsidies, but also new subsidies. Let me say something very simple, which we need to make clear because it is important. There is a risk for the correlation between this bill and the environmental parameters. Nowadays, pesticides which expire, either in the ditches or are used, delayed and potentially at risk, and the health of farmers, as well as of the product. We are introducing a regulation to ensure that we do not pay any money to foreign companies that carry the drug out-of-date to Germany for control - where they could be used - and controlled under the responsibility of the producer and provider. In other words, it must pay the cost of checking and re-promoting the market itself, that is to say, the company - which may be multinational - so that the farmer can be sure of both the product and its health. From not being sure either the farmer or the consumer, do you mind if we introduce the producer's responsibility on this subject too? A regulation which, clearly, is environmentally and protects both our fields and our waters and soil and the products that our children eat, would you like to present as a negative for the environment? Are you trying in this field to falsify reality? On the other hand, the bill in addition to this arrangement includes additional arrangements, through the grazing land management plans, which allow for the renewal of pastures and the existence of new grazing material and practically the natural environment and ecosystem to be renewed by the operation - if you like - of herds in this traditional way - that Greece has operated and displayed - so that there is continuity in the ecosystem as well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in 20 seconds. But there is a need for control, Minister. Here, too, we would like to propose that the management plans be supplemented by the monitoring committees and by the involvement of self-government. Obviously, the region will have the management of the projects. We also believe, however, in the presence of local and local representatives in the committee at least - we have discussed this with colleagues - because it is right that the debate should take advantage of all the functions of self-government and all the levels of management and environmental protection. Temporary management plans, ladies and gentlemen, are ready with the adoption of the bill and we also ensure national diversification and a large stock of eligible areas with new innovative tools. Because this database is an innovative tool and will be at the Ministry's disposal. We are over-optimistic and are asking for this debate - although it has several amendments and we must admit it - to become synthetic in this House. These amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are due to the fact that Parliament's continued and constant work on the subject of the agreement does not give us much time to take all the legislative work in turn. We are judging the legislation on the basis of results and we understand that there is more than one and we would not want that to be done. But how will we be placed directly in a bill that gives us immediately a thousand two hundred young doctors in hospitals with an amendment? We are critical of why it is coming as an amendment, but it is also essential. Because at the meeting of the Heads of Government of the political parties we asked on the substance of this matter to be placed and to have a line of defence, to tell the negotiators that we do not want to reduce any pensions and retain the right to insurance. You didn't dare to do it to make an opposition. Let us hope at least that the amendments and the specific interventions will be more courageous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Femello.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u227	Mr. President, Mr. Famelos made a report...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u228	Wait a minute, let's get in touch. When I took office, Mr Papachristopoulos had asked for the floor. I was not quite aware of this - and I am saying this - that the Parliamentary Representatives and the Democratic Alliance and the Communist Party, who were not in the Chamber at least when I took over from the Bureau. Mr Papachristopoulos came in and we agreed to come in, as a Parliamentary representative had already agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u229	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u230	We're not taking anyone's turn. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u231	You're wrong. A parliamentary representative, four MPs, is the agreement. Look at the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u232	We said the end of the sitting was at 12 o'clock at night, in order to speak as many Members as possible and to make it easier for Parliamentary representatives. What has been said I do not know what I found is two Members and one parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u233	Mr. President, the agreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u234	Don't worry, you'll talk, Mr. Bucoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u235	When? Two o'clock after midnight?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u236	Now see that we have time to get together with two Thessalians. I'm coming back to what I've been telling you. They want to talk to Mr Theocharopoulos, Mrs Manolakou and Mr Papachristopoulos and now added Mr Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, we have a series.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u238	And Mr. Danellis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u239	Obviously!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u240	Listen to me. I therefore propose that Parliament's representatives should also speak because - if you'll excuse me - they have every right to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u241	That is not the agreement, Mr President. The agreement is a parliamentary representative and four MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u242	So, what are we gonna do now? Are we going to deny the floor to the parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u243	It is a unanimous agreement of the parties, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u244	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u245	How do you destroy a unanimous decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u246	I am prepared to continue the meeting beyond twelve o'clock at night. I have no problem personally if you address me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u247	I'm saying something very reasonable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u248	I didn't give you the floor, Mr. Bukowo. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u249	The Court ruled as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u250	No, I didn't give you the floor. There are parliamentary representatives, they have the right to take the floor. We agreed - as you say - every four. There were every two Members, one parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u251	There was a mistake from the previous President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u252	Excuse me, there was no mistake. Don't waste any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u253	Compliance with the agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u254	I therefore propose that the parliamentary representatives who will intervene - who will speak after a Member of Parliament - speak on the basis of the parliamentary power of the parties, of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u255	Oh, no. Why, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u256	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u257	Why, Mr President? Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u258	Mr Vagionas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, are we going to make a new deal? The parties agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u261	Why are you asking for the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u262	Because he made a personal reference to the rapporteur of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u263	Personally, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u264	Did I report your face?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u265	Mrs. Arabatzis has the floor for a minute to explain to us the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u266	He reported that the rapporteur of the New Democracy deliberately concealed that the taxation of agricultural subsidies occurred in the government of New Democracy, before the coup d'état.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u267	That's political.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u268	Listen, Mr Famelle, you have said a lot of inaccurate things I do not have the time to talk about at this time. I shall refer to the articles tomorrow. It was a personal report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u269	I don't see the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u270	I just want to inform Mr Famello that you have to stop inaccurate, because every request for consensus is, in the end, totally pretext. Let me just remind you that we have taxed agricultural income with 13%, believing that both farmers and farmers must make an equal contribution to the country's budgetary adjustment, but never on our own account has subsidies been taxed. This is your work, the work of the SYRIZA - ANEL with the Balabani amendment. And I'll say something to break down the myths. You had the melon and the knife. If we, Mr President, had taxed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u271	Mrs. Arabatzis, finish. Staff don't know what they are. Please very much, if you wish in your dentistry, whenever you have the ability, to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u272	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u273	Mr. rapporteur, just a minute. If we had taxed agricultural subsidies, as you falsely say and say again, then why did you not come in May with the Balabani amendment to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u274	The staff who it is, Mrs. Arabaji, you didn't tell us after all. You refer to more general issues of placement and policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u275	...myths and lies. The rest tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u276	Okay, thank you very much. He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, please, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u278	What do you want, Mr. Femmelle, now? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u279	O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o The first euro is also taxed subsidies and subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u280	Where is he? Where does he write it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u281	What we have to say, however, Mr President, is this: unfortunately, the New Democracy colleagues, because we understand that they have too much internal problems, are trying to export them to the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u282	Leave the interior of the New Democracy, because in a week or so you're falling.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u283	Your staff and you, Mr. Famele, now who is it? You requested the floor on staff. What's your personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u284	We have a great responsibility. The responsibility we have, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u285	Previously, you disagreed with Mrs. Arabaji. Now? Would you please...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u286	The responsibility we have, Mr President, is to keep Greece standing, which the New Democracy and the PASOK have obviously devoured.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u287	Finish it, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u288	We'll do it, and we won't give in to their mudology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u289	Please, be quiet, honourable Members. Mr Vagionas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u290	In order to calm down the situation, ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary spokesman Mr Famelos Socrates must know that the truth must be called a whole and not a half, because then it is worse than a great lie. We will vote for this bill at first - and we will see about the articles - because this bill is ours. It's a bill that shouldn't be a law. It needed two - three ministerial decisions and it would be over. Unless, with the bill, you want to say your rural development problem. It's not solved with this wish. So the major problem we are talking about is that subsidies are not given by an animal, given by grassland, with its acres. I am happy in advance for the seventy million acres said by the Minister. If he does, I'll applaud it. Even seventy million. I'm giving him the nine million, because they're getting too much. That's the truth. But you're saying a lot and you're doing a little bit, Minister. I wouldn't take the floor if I didn't have a major problem about it in my county, Halkidiki. I asked a question about lumpy bovine dermatitis, which hit the prefecture. And what did you do? Vaccination started last week, on Monday, and I had informed you by question four weeks ago when it had puffed. Therefore vaccination in such viruses of all animals, like humans, should be prevented. And what happened? While we had to do when a protection zone was presented to Evros somewhere in Komotini or Rodopi, where the competent scientists would judge, we let it shine. The first cases in the first flocks in Ierissos Halkidikis. Shouldn't they at that moment start? They were held forty days ago from today. Perhaps Mrs. Iglesi, if she's here and listens to me, she'll tell me what specific date she was. The cattle as a whole in the county are about five and a half thousand, five thousand six hundred. He was lost within this space in one/3, more than a thousand eight hundred cattle. So now we would not need the law because the existing pastures were enough. So then a feast for this county. But the great evil is not because we will not receive subsidies now, because there are no animals, it is that half the farmers from them will leave the profession. That's what I'm interested in. And I am interested in why I had livestock farmers - and especially stable animals - from Thessaloniki and they came to ask me for follicular dermatitis vaccines. I have nothing to do with veterinary matters, but the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for it. Can you tell me what you did? Absolutely nothing. But farmers, in order to protect their livelihood, went to Bulgaria and brought vaccines - I believe - of doubtful quality. That's the situation. So, you know, it's a nice report you wrote. I fully respect forest laws, environmental laws and so we need to work. But, Mr Famele, when fourteen New Democracy MPs on Karasmani had brought the bill to pass for the torrents and the populaces as pastures, you fought it with hatred and it was not accepted. Here's Mr. Apostle. Let him disprove me. So I said again in this Chamber - because you are young in Parliament, ask people who have decades or rather spend the decade - when you say half the truth, it is worse than lying. And that's what you're doing from the Step. And I didn't think you could do it. We've got two more minutes. I won't say much. But my friend Michael the Celestes of Serres said that as long as the pastures keep falling. That's why I told you in advance I'm going to congratulate you. I do not want to repeat things that other colleagues have said. What I want to say is that the stables and facilities that farmers want are not in settlements, Mr Minister, to be outside the settlements, at a certain distance, because in summer settlements the stables generally have many problems and there is a health problem. But attention - as I understand it - to relations between the office, the municipality and the periphery. Mr. Paulakis stressed them, who left, who lived them. We live every day, where the limits of one another begin and where the other ends. And on the other hand, do not be so optimistic that Europe will easily accept such things. Make sure this House's rehearsing. To define constitutionally what is forest, what is forest area, what is field and all that needed for growth to be done as a prerequisite. As far as late-dated medicines - and I am closing with this - in medicine we say that a medicine may be three to six months after the expiry date to be administered, if necessary. That's what I assure you. This is done in all parts of the world. I don't know if the same thing applies to pesticides. However, I prefer that the last two months, three months - others, rather than being used, are endowed with pesticides, but also with fertilisers of unknown origin, such as those coming from nearby countries. That's the real truth. We're filled with nitrite all our fields.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u291	This isn't about drugs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Wagon, have you finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u293	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u294	Thank you. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. He mentioned many times my name and spoke of truths half and all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u296	Are you asking for the floor on personal grounds again, Mr. Famele? Look at this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u297	He mentioned my name many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u298	Listen to me. If we take it on staff in the disagreement on policies that have been implemented or are to be implemented, we will not finish tomorrow, and it is right that the Members or the next parliamentary representatives, who are after you, will be yelling tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u299	It wasn't political, Mr. President. I want a minute's reason to explain it. So, Mr. Bagionas...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u300	You insist on that. What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u301	Did you hear what Mr Vagionas said, Mr President? Were you in another room? Let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u302	Please sit down, Mr. Famele. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, give me the right to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u304	Another time to address the Bureau with more respect. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, I would like to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u306	No, I'm not giving you the floor. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u307	I want to explain, Mr President. You're obliged to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u308	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, did you not hear what Mr Vagionas said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Theocharopoulos, come to Stepma. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, did you hear what Mr Vagionas said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u312	Start, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, did you hear what Mr Vagionas said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u314	Be more careful when you speak to the Bureau, Mr Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u315	Good, Mr. President, I'm sorry. Can I explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u316	Please, sit down. I gave the floor to Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Theocharopoulos, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u317	So will you give me a minute to explain it to me? Two measures and two weights, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u319	In today's crisis for our country, it is imperative that an integrated strategy for the primary sector be developed. A strategy that moves on the quadruple: rural development, sustainability, competitiveness, social cohesion. An integral part of this strategy is the strengthening of livestock farming, the shift towards the production of livestock products, where our country is very poor, exploiting and managing pastures as a lever for rural development, and, of course, the adaptation of production to the new competitive environment of domestic, European and international markets. Can the Prime Minister, when he trusted the Ministry of Rural Development and Food last August, Mr Minister, stress that the primary sector can and must be a key lever of the development process and of productive reconstruction, but then the very opposite went on. The Government has adopted measures which are economically ineffective and socially unfair, which lead to a shrinking of Greek primary production, and which, of course, plans to promote additional measures horizontally which will enhance the problems of the rural and livestock world. This is another proof of the inaccuracy of election speeches and post-elections. So we come to the House today to discuss a bill dealing mainly with the management, exploitation and distribution of grazing land. Under no circumstances could it be designated, as the relevant Minister and the committees have done, as a 'visional approach', which is the basis for livestock farming to do the 'alma', as he has said. This is another delusion of the government. Of course, the foundations for the leaping of livestock are not being laid through delays and a simple management arrangement for the matters of pastures, looking at the forthcoming aids under the new common agricultural policy, which should have already been paid to farmers and which have been delayed. I am surprised to hear the Minister say that we have chosen to pay now in December and by 15 December EUR 1.2 billion will be paid. In fact, it was welcomed by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. It's late for that money. It is the biggest delay that has been taking place in recent years. And that is money that is given each time on the basis of the common agricultural policy. I hope that some farmers have listened to this debate and see why this delay is currently taking place. We also heard that SYRIZA's parallel programme is being launched today by the Minister. I guess it's just for the Ministry. Does the parallel program start in the other ministries? Is this a total government? Let us know. But we haven't got a parallel program so far. We have a programme which differs greatly from the election programme that you have analysed to Greek citizens. And I'm not just talking about January, I'm talking about now. You also said that the deficit in the agricultural product balance is more than EUR 2 billion and, above all, it is one of livestock products. There is a deficit and it is a serious deficit. You're right. But here, let me tell you something. The measures you have at the moment agreed on whether they are coming, that is to say, tax on 26% on aid and income, if the advance payment of tax comes, which must be paid, if the refund on agricultural oil comes, and there is no longer a refund on agricultural oil, if all this is done together and if insurance contributions are tripled, the budget has already entered more than EUR 100,000 000 000 for insurance contributions, and there will be an increase in deficits, imports will increase and exports will be reduced. You will achieve the exact opposite result. Ladies and gentlemen, then, following on from mistakes and omissions and ten months' delay, this bill comes handy and quickly stitched, in a context of suffocating pressure. Includes arrangements for a number of aspects of the agricultural sector, in order to settle outstanding issues. Overcoming unreasonable lost time, let me stress that the provisions of the draft law we are discussing absolutely have no meaning and print in the livestock sector if they do not combine with necessary changes in the livestock register, land use and property data and with immediate reduction measures rather than an increase in production costs, such as reduction and not an increase in VAT on low scales in agricultural supplies, such as feed. Feedingstuffs are one of the highest costs of the farmer at the moment and, while he had VAT at 13% and you also asked to reduce and ask everyone to reduce VAT, because he was already the highest in the Eurozone, you have agreed to increase this VAT to 23%. What are we talking about when the rest of the Eurozone is going to have VAT below 13% and we will have 23%? What is needed today is to achieve, among other things, a reduction in the opening of the price lane by regulation, such as a reduction in profits in the marketing chain. Minister, we have heard you many times say that the price difference between consumer and producer in our country is about seven times twice, if I am not mistaken, in relation to your references in relation to the average of the European Union. Same happens in milk. It's a big difference. The OECD report, because I do not think we all have read it, and that is why we are hearing wrangling on these issues, says that one of the biggest problems in the price of milk is the high profit margins in the retail chains in our country compared with the rest of the Eurozone. Indeed, it says that if the milk life that the report proposes is increased, this will affect domestic production. You remember it was five days, you remember that you protested not to increase the days, you remember that, in a tripartite government at the time in 2012-2013, the life expectancy of milk was not increased, then battled not to grow and it was only increased by two days, by seven, and you are now accepting what you have been denounced throughout the previous period, the increase in eleven days. We have tabled a question to the two ministries, to the Ministry of Rural Development and to the Ministry of Development on this matter. The Minister of Development has declared us irresponsible. We're waiting for your answer, because you're probably the only one in charge, since the Minister of Development has shown responsibility. So we're waiting for your answer. Why, with a ministerial decision, as you intend to do, will you increase the life of milk in eleven days, as you have been denounced all the previous time? To increase imports? To serve specific interests of foreign companies? To speak with clear words in here. Will it hurt domestic livestock production or not, which is, anyway, a deficit at the moment? The OECD report itself says that domestic production will be affected. In addition to all this, we see, of course, that there is no reformist mood and mood for areas. The problems in the livestock sector cannot be solved without political proposals and modernisation changes on the basis of a national production reconstruction plan. Once again we are faced with the sloppyness of the legislature. Responsibilities of other Ministries shall be set out in a comprehensive form, withdrew, reintroduced. That's not how it works. Fourteen amendments. Twenty are the articles! Before the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said: 'Would you be placed on the amendment tabled by the Minister for Health?'. What are we gonna talk about? For pastures or for the fourteen amendments from unrelated ministries that have been here at the moment? Amendments to quarries, to education and entry to higher education, amendments to even extend the secondment of managers working in districts. These are the amendments that we have today, as is the case with the Ministry of Health which has been analysed and so on. This can't be a serious job. And you were talking about it, and we talked about it in the past few years. What are we doing right now as a Parliament? Just the opposite. I think he doesn't honor anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make some basic points about the provisions of the articles very quickly. There are ambiguities, fundamental shortcomings in how to draw up projects by the regions and, of course, the issue of regions and municipalities. Look, we have not understood, the municipalities have not understood, in any case, whether there has been any consultation of local government on this matter. No consultation! Have you decided to give the regions the grazing fee, with what design? You can analyze it for us. What design have all this done right now, all of a sudden? There are protests, as we have heard. We have letters of this kind too. You have decided without having a complete plan for all of this, namely who is more competent to do some work. Maybe it's the districts, but you can show it. Maybe it's the municipalities. We need to see a complete design. We haven't seen him. Article 4 defines the date 31-1-2019 as the final date for the preparation, submission and approval of management plans. It is not here - and I would like to stress this - any guarantee of the right of farmers to activate their rights. So what are you going to do to ensure that the deadline referred to does not provide a basis for delays in drafting the projects, but also to ensure that the rights based on eligible pastures are distributed and allocated to the beneficiaries in a uniform and fair way? Article 7 provides for the payment by farmers of rent for the region. It is necessary here to introduce at least a minimum fee in order not to find farmers before unpleasant surprises in this respect. As far as the safeguarding of biodiversity is concerned, several provisions of the law in question fall under the forestry legislation and the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. I fear, therefore, that their implementation may create conflicts and issues - and I would like to stress that - even with the Council of State. Furthermore, in your bill, there are no provisions necessary for the protection of biodiversity. It seems, therefore, that environmental protection remains only in your theoretical statements, while in practice you are not receiving specific attention. Look, here we have to say something clearly. We see that there is also the signature of the Minister for the Environment, which comes from the field of ecology. We would expect him to come here to put himself on this issue, to see if you really agree on all these issues, particularly in relation to the protection of biodiversity. We expect that, even tomorrow. It is not enough, therefore, for extensions to be enough. You have to give solutions to many issues, such as compliance and authorisation of livestock units. As, of course, we are also calling for the withdrawal of provisions - and the rapporteur has also pointed out - regarding the renewal of the expiry of pesticides. Obviously, no new expiry date should be allowed in any event. We have heard a moment ago about this issue that there is, of course, a serious problem with agricultural medicines that are illegally coming from third countries at the moment. And that's what you have to deal with, and the other one shouldn't be. I don't understand. Do we have to choose between these two? Is that what you told us a moment ago? That we choose between illegal imports and the extension of the expiry date? I don't think you think that's the solution. I am referring to the Member of the New Democracy who spoke a moment ago. As we have no more time, I would also like to say, Minister, that both our rapporteur and Mr Koutsoukos have asked you clearly, and I ask you and I want your reply. Why in a bill here, which is being discussed in a programme, I had a drink, we heard before the Parliamentary representative say: 'Why would the opposition possibly vote on this bill today?' When the opposition does not vote, you blame her for a sterile opposition. When she votes, you blame her for making programme opposition to the articles. It can't be done! You will have opposition, whether it votes or not the opposition votes. Well, we asked you clearly and I ask you now, and we want your answer, to decide on our attitude to all matters: You brought, while it has not been discussed in committee, in Article 19(5): Until the approval of the management plans for grazing, the distribution of eligible pastures to farmers is carried out in accordance with the number of these joint decision of the Minister for Productive Reconstruction of 20 May 2015. In other words, here you want a legitimisation process of your ministerial decision of May 2015. We asked you: is that what this is about? Answer me! This is the third question which makes you a Member of Parliament, rapporteur and Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Incorporation and you have not answered, because these issues are very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Theocharopoulos, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u321	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, you don't have a government of a month or two. Especially in the Ministry of Rural Development, you've been in the government for ten months. So by starting the debate on what happened in the past every time the difficult ones start, it is not how we can go ahead. We could do a controversy here and start talking a lot of things. Here we need to see what we're doing right now. And I have asked you specific questions, concrete proposals, concrete changes, specific issues, which you must deal with. We are trying to solve the problems here and you have many challenges ahead of you. Unfortunately, it is not possible with theories to deal with the problems today. They hear us farmers, they hear us producers, they have anxiety if they will continue to produce. They can't stay in their field, they can't stay and continue to produce. These are the problems at the moment and you need to give concrete answers and solutions. If we continue theories, all we can do is not produce our country. The moments are critical, and we must all realize that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u322	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next Member, who is Mrs. Vanja...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u323	And then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u324	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, may I turn to the personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Femmelle, please sit down and let's get to grips with the whole thing. The talks were started until Mrs Inglezis, that is to say there was agreement to conclude this evening's sitting at about twelve o'clock this evening. However, with the speeches of the parliamentary representatives, especially now at the end, the time will be extended. So either we will have to cut off Members, to finish at twelve or we will have to reduce the time. Otherwise, on the basis of the timetable and the speakers, i.e. the Members, as I said to you until Mrs Inglezi, but also the four Parliamentary representatives who are not present, we still have ninety-eight minutes, that is to say we will end in only one ten. If we agree, I shall put it in the House, observing the twelfths and the quarters or cutting the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u327	Compliance with the agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u328	Mrs Vanjah has the floor. Are we going to continue with the seven and twelve minutes to finish one more than ten, so that we can finish with the last Mrs. Inglezi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u329	Can I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u330	You are not answering the questions of the Bureau. Everyone puts theirs. I made two proposals as Bureau. Do you agree or disagree? There are Parliamentary Representatives. Do you agree? The programme came out until 12 o'clock at night with Mrs Inglezi's last speaker. In order to keep this in place, in between, and the parliamentary representatives, we will go to about one, about ten, but in keeping with the twelfth and seven minutes. Otherwise, the second proposal is to reduce the time of the parliamentary representatives and Members, so that we can close about twelve to twelve and twenty if necessary. These two proposals and thoughts exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u332	You're welcome. You have the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u333	Mr Bukouros is right in pointing out to you that agreement had been reached unanimously by all parties between Parliamentary representatives and four colleagues. If you want, you can apply it like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u334	Mr Kasapidis, you are right about this, as far as the understanding that had taken place at the beginning of the sitting is concerned. I didn't disagree with that at all. However, I cannot remove the floor from the parliamentary representatives who have asked for it. I beg your pardon very much, but the Rules of Procedure provide that Parliament's representative, once he has been in the Chamber and has asked for the floor, is given him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u335	Wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u336	This has been the case - to say this - with the concession between parliamentary representatives and Members of Parliament, and so on, so that within the time that we will be over and over will be spoken by those Members of Parliament who have left, and in the meantime, a Member of Parliament will be involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u337	The deal was different!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u338	It's no different. How do we do it now? Do you want to go at two o'clock in the morning? Let's go! Do you want three o'clock? Let's go! We cannot come to an agreement. Here you go, Mrs. Vanja. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position, I should like to inform Mr Vagiona who is not here, but also the House for a minute about follicular bovine skin disease, which, in fact, is a very serious problem. Of course, here I must say that the Ministry has moved quite quickly and has arranged for vaccines, but also for a protection zone, as science defines. In fact, in order to limit the disease in Northern Greece - which unfortunately has all the epidemics there - the European directive has come too early to say that we cannot inoculate animals in no case. Unfortunately, this was not the case in 2014 with bluetongue, which was not taken at all, the vaccines were too slow and the sheep was finally declining. I'll start my placement now. I am really happy, because today we are discussing and voting on a bill that comes to solve many years and years of problems in a different way and without creating new ones. First of all, it is the first serious effort being made in the country to record and capture pastures. Today various departments or addresses or supervised bodies of the same Ministry have a different definition of what is a pasture and of course they all have a different size. This is an indication of the curiosity, inactivity and ultimately the irresponsibility that has prevailed in recent years - several years - in the policies implemented for this important sector called livestock farming. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 there are debts to farmers even before 2010 on the main cause or pretext of pasture chaos. Honestly, I find it difficult to understand the pain and the crocodile tears of those who have exercised power over the last forty years for unpaid farmers, when they are the ones who have endured their future and practically dismantled the country's primary sector. It is you, gentlemen of the previous government and your members, who first agreed on a European definition of pastures, which had nothing to do with Greek reality. It is you who have been hiding the problem for years under the carpet of technical solutions, indifferent to both the fines and the consequences and the delays, which at the end of the day fell on the back of the farmers. You are the one who allowed some self-invited saviours of farmers and their partners to convert the basic payment instrument of Community aid, the OPEKEPE, into a monster that, while coming from farmers' labors with fees they pay for the Culture Declaration ISE - which must at some point stop and that is the work of this government - when it comes to performance, the system makes mistakes, sticks or closes. In my opinion, the biggest problem, of course, is not the computing system, but the system that controls this system. And that's our big bet, the dissolution of systems that create and control. At best, gentlemen of PASOK and of the New Democracy, you are accused of criminal political negligence or negligence. With the application of this law, we will be final and irreversible with what it is, where it is and how it is the extent of the pastures in our country. The problem of the eligibility of the areas required for the allocation of European aid to farmers will be resolved. For the first time, grazing plans will become the absolutely necessary management and essentially the recovery and not simply the use of this natural riches called the grazing land. This will give impetus to the strong paper on Greek livestock, which is the extensible farming system, but also to the second strong paper on Greek livestock, which is the milk and the sprout, with which we will also be very serious about it. The Commission's work programme for 1990-92 is based on the following principles: 4056/2012 - which I believe was a law in the right direction - is another part of the bill that will solve years of problems relating to the licensing of stable installations. Four years after the implementation of the n. 4056 a very large percentage of farmers, estimated at around 80%, have not yet been able to get a permit. This shows that there is a serious problem. We obviously do not end here with the problems of the licensing of the stack facilities. It is worth wondering why a certificate of archaeological services is required for construction of rough structures, for which excavations are not carried out, and which do not require the application of urban planning conditions. Furthermore, it is not possible for public services to use the public as a carrier of documents at a time when, with the help of technology, they can very easily collect documents issued by other services. Finally, it is not possible that the average real time required for the issue of a licence exceeds three years when the law provides for three months. The regulations of this law on livestock establishments obviously solve a huge problem that comes from an old age. The real solutions will, of course, be given to the next stage, with the application of institutions such as that of livestock parks, livestock areas and regions. There, through the basic infrastructure, we will substantially ensure that livestock is accessed to modern technologies, which, together with the economy in various stages, will give it the impetus it needs. Another major issue for the rural world is ELGA, the organisation that has for many years been a difficult, inefficient and cost-effective tool for the many and small, while on the contrary there has been a source of income for the few and the large. It is very important that the bill under discussion changes some of the major distortions in its operation. The ceiling on insurance premiums is abolished, thus restoring the gross injustice imposed on the small against the large. I will take one example: the highest premium for animal production is EUR 701. This amount corresponds to sixty-two cows, which means that the small farmer who has sixty-two animals pays a premium of EUR 11,25 for each animal. Large farmers with two hundred, three hundred or six hundred cows from the sixty - third animal and then they pay nothing. At the same time, the average annual compensation of large units in some areas is EUR 25 000. Of course it is imperative to change immediately the way and time needed to restructure the list with the insured causes of the ELGA. This is where I'm going to say blue fever again. The sheep was literally declined without being able to put the blue fever on the ELGA lists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute. The other major problem that this law comes to solve is the one of thousands of dead animals that every year, but especially during periods of occurrence or outbreak of diseases, become outbreaks of infection throughout the country. Unfortunately, no one has had any problems so far that the antiquated and tertiary world practice of "flying the animals into the stream" was a health and environmental bomb. At this point, as in the entire bill, there is provision for not disrupting the natural balance from human intervention. I am talking about Article 15, which provides for and care for poor predators. Finally, as a scientist, I would like to reassure all those who believe that livestock farming can pose a risk to forests. Extensive livestock farming is, is and will continue to be, a basic activity. The forest, except of course special cases such as reafforestation, can only benefit from the presence of the animals. Man and abandonment are the factors in danger. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. I mentioned only a few of the points in the bill that make it useful. His great innovation, however, comes to the philosophy with which the subject is approached. We are not just solving problems that exist. We are moving one step further and we are starting to build the great idea of productive reconstruction. And all this with respect for both production resources and consumers and the environment and, of course, the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u340	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamando Manolakou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with the amendments. They've been above fifteen, with different issues. It's unacceptable. We're denounced. And it looks like they're not done. If I understood well from the majority parliamentary representative, we will probably have another amendment that you will be asking for back-up payments from farmers in previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u342	Who said that? Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u343	My appreciation is this, Mr. Famele, of yours. I have every right to make appreciation, because you've made it nice, that all of this was ruffles. Rochettes were there, no one denys that. That's how ELGA was used. But you cannot blame all farmers for going and what they took was the ruffles and begging them to the ministers. Of course they also had to make decisions that were horizontal and many of these farmers are currently indebted. The red loan blankets in bad ATE today, are currently being given bare and you ask for them from indebted people. Maybe that's a way out of here even faster. I say this because horizontal measures cannot exist. We do not deny that there have been ruffles, but horizontal measures also create injustices. Minister, you referred to the International Climate Conference in Paris. Today it has started, with competition and opposition, not for the interests of the peoples, to live and work in good, healthy, sound environmental conditions. It is being done for the interests of large business groups that make use of climate change and environmental problems, in order to broaden their profitability fields in green technologies, renewables and other forms of energy, low energy emissions, without, of course, ensuring cheap energy for popular families. Their use as a merchandise makes it expensive. That's how monopolies are earned. It's hypocrisy they're interested in protecting the environment. They do so to hide that they compete with which group of groups will ensure greater profitability. It is also a great mockery on the part of the co-chairman who is supposed to respect and protect the environment, when he promotes this forestic bill with alibi livestock, which certainly does not solve the increased problems of small and medium-sized farmers, who are struggling to survive massively and accept the VAT increase tax storm in 23% in feed, veterinary medicines, direct taxation from the first euro to 26% and 100% advance for next year, great increase in OGA contributions, carpeting in ELGA, drilling, certification of authorisation for plant protection sprays, increased energy. They don't end your barbaric savages. They are mainly affected by small and medium-sized farmers and farmers in order to leave the profession. That's streamlining. You pretend with this bill you will save the small and medium-sized farmers. You're lying! It is simply that you are massively declassifying forest land using the problems created by the policy of the European Union and the previous governments with grazing areas as an alibi. We ask the following question. Were there grazing areas in adequacy which ELSTAT recorded in the about fifty-two million acres? There were, you said, too, Minister. Would it be possible to graz in forests and forest land with the agreement of forests and forests? It was allowed without a problem. That was the rule. Now this has been destroyed, because you do not prioritise the protection of the forest area, but the grazing area. Convert the form of use of forest land that is grazing, in character, or grazing areas. This is how you declassify forests and woodlands, through the change in land use. Of course, other governments have also tried to do this, and the New Democracy and the PASOK. You remember that. They're not finished. A percentage went through, but they didn't complete it due to reactions. They failed because they were violating the protection laws mentioned in the Scientific Report of the House. Especially on pages 3 to 7 of the report, it is clearly brought into the definition of grazing land that they will coincide with forests and forest areas or parts thereof. It's on page 3. And on page 5 it clearly states that areas referred to as grazing land are areas of a forestry character and even that the management plans of protected areas, which coincide with grazing land, cannot be developed in dense forests, because their territory is not too deep, i.e. confusion caused by management plans and are contained in page 4 of the report. There are many other points in the NATURA 2000 areas too. In your speech you have not responded to that, Minister. And you're doing it by a teacher in the profession, which means full scientific knowledge. Unfortunately, you are consciously destroying the environment without giving a solution to the major problems of livestock farming and small and medium-sized farmers who are being beaten by the pillaging of their poor income. Additional grazing land with this felony will create, but few will fruit them. It will be the great people who will have the right to use grazing, that is, renting which, in our opinion, will increase in the new terms. That is why Parliament's scientific report on page 6 points out that you do not have any criteria for setting the level of rent and that there should be at least indicative. But you refer it to ministerial decisions, so that you do not seem to be using rent as a tool to get away from the average small- and medium-sized farmers who are already indebted. Of course, you are already extinguishing them with tools for taxing, carpeting, increasing the cost of production in all the agricultural input supplies that have been extinguished due to high VAT. And with this bill, as we call it, you also have them paying new fees, like a fee for burials of dead animals or grazing fees. You're here to tell us they'll get the backup they're entitled to. You're applauded, yes. Of course, you'll have to get out of the wild tax. Because, when we say this and know it well, farmers can't afford to get the subsidy, already through the bill as the previous ones have put it - it's not just your fault, I'm just saying it's still going on - it's taken away. And of course, you also have direct and indirect taxes. The budget is a mirror. Tomorrow we begin to look and the papers have written it. Of course, welcome and applaud, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity. You're going to have money from the people you're going to go bankrupt, though. Another question I would like to ask is this. When did the grazing land problem arise? Because the shortage is on paper and not on the substance of grazing land. It happened when the new CAP is subsidising the land and not the animal units, and when the action plans for past governments - which is why, as we call it, the New Democracy is voting in favour of your bill and I do not understand the reason for your quarrels - were approved by the European Union, they were incorporated into the OPEKEPE circular and were out of recognition of millions of acres of grazing land. Then the farmers were deprived of any aid, without any fault of their own. In short, the European Union defines the use of our land and you dance in terms of unscientific and dangerous. You are accountable for the consequences, because this approach will legally steal rights from small and medium-sized farmers who will not survive and be donated to big farmers and new fireplaces that will be created. In essence, those who cannot survive will be blackmailed and will be forced to sell fine flocks, land, rights. Of course, hundreds of scattered local cheese houses will be closed, since they will have reduced milk yields. This is what you call "success". You do the same as a government, when you are baptising "success" the protection of the weak, the liberalisation in the auctions, the tax-paying, the new massacre in insurance, even in the benefits of the CSR, the dissolution of social security, the new carpets and the cuts in the 2016 budget to 5.7 billion euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can you say in the report that 60% of the costs of livestock farmers are feed, but what are you doing to reduce the high costs? Could you zero VAT to make feedingstuffs 23% cheaper? Here, a meter directly and quickly! On the contrary, you raised him, and then you say that you support livestock farming. Is there a need to strengthen and develop livestock farming? Of course, there are many reasons. I shall mention five reasons. We have the soil climate, experience, local races, scientists to plan. We import livestock that is of high nutritional value and cost more than EUR 2 billion. That makes us dependent. So it has to be corrected. The ovine and caprine animals are exploiting mountain and semi-urban areas. There is a growing demand internationally on the feta where the raw material has the ovine and caprine species and the development of livestock and services that assist it will increase employment, i.e. reduce unemployment. All of this means that it is necessary to develop livestock farming, but for the benefit of the people's needs and not the few hands for the profit of a group of capitalists. I would like to say to you that as far as the Communist Party of Greece is concerned, it is no coincidence that, in our agricultural programme, the development of livestock farming is the first, since the ratio of plant and animal production is eight to two. That is unacceptable. It's counterproductive. If you want to design on the basis of needs, you will calculate first - I say the most elementary - how many children we have in schools, nursery and childcare stations, how we must ensure their milk and a meal on the day that includes cheese...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u344	Ms. Manolakou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u345	I shall conclude, Mr President, by taking time from my denology. I say this because today in Crete there are large unwitting quantities of scratches - and these are the contradictions of the system - because, because of a crisis, consumption has fallen. You will find this in front of you. Also, animals are undernourished because of expensive feedingstuffs. Mr. Poulakis either doesn't know or he doesn't confess. Also, farmers have other needs, such as veterinary protection for their livestock. Veterinarians must be hired and the institutes must be staffed. Various zoonoses must also be treated. These issues you know. You mentioned this last year in the question, which I put to you to remember what you were saying. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] But the responsibilities they have and the previous governments are clear. As far as I'm concerned, they really support you. That's why it's a big offer to the urban system. You have their consent and the back of the others. The river, although it raised many issues, supports it. The New Democracy does the same. So this is why the JRC is the only force that makes a proletarian opposition and needs strength. Most importantly, however, the people themselves need to show their strength and not to be the victim of waiting and tolerance to another anti-popular government that supports business groups and participates in Imperialist organisations that are lagging behind countries and peoples. We are therefore not going to be aware of this and we are therefore voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u348	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u349	Less. I just want to inform Mrs Manolakou that there is a free distribution ministerial decision through withdrawal of cheeses that really have a major problem at their disposal, supplementing that the money will be drawn from a European Union programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u350	Is this about the needy people that are every year?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u351	No, new.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u352	Mr Bukkokouros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. You are right, Mr President, in saying that Parliamentary representatives are in the first instance, because this is what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but at the beginning of the sitting there was a unanimous agreement from all the parties to intervene in four Members of Parliament. And because I think it is your concern to upgrade the role of Members, especially in this Chamber, this agreement should be respected. Of course, it is not your personal mistake, since the previous President-in-Office of the Council had understood that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Bukkaro, because you started wrong - let me the word and the expression...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u355	Mr. President, I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u356	Listen to me. I'm interrupting you and I'm going to give you the time of the interruption I'm taking you. If I wanted to implement the 'the meeting will end at 12 o'clock at midnight', only the parliamentary representatives would speak and we would close at 12 p.m., Mr. Bukkoro, and you would also speak tomorrow. So go directly into the bill on substance and leave the tips to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u357	This is not an admonition, Mr President. If you were kind enough to hear the completion of my thinking, you would have realised that the mistake preceded your Presidency. And the mistake isn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u358	Go to the bill, Mr. Bucoro. I've come up with how we're going to go and what time we're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u359	Sure. Minister, I'm coming to you. You too realise that the concern of farmers today is not the bill we are discussing, because it is in its final form and in the final solution to the problems that are supposed to be facing you in the distant 2019 with Article 4, and we all wonder why not in 2017, so that the country has time to negotiate for the next Programming Period. But, Minister, I was really shocked by the convenience with which you said today in this Chamber that at least the last fortnight of late payments you deliberately decided and started it, and another month before that. And according to your commitments, in the completion of payments we will go on 15 December, i.e. two months' delay in relation to previous years. You're dealing with this, Minister, completely communication and codification, I'd say. But it's not like that. You end up handling it accounting and bureaucraticly. However, the primary sector, and in particular livestock farming, Minister, is not a theory, it is an act and a result. With the two-month delay in the payment of subsidies you generate an additional cost of production to farmers. Minister, you yourself said that feed - and you mention it in the bill - constitute 60% of the cost of production. Didn't you think, Minister, that another is the price of feedingstuffs on 15 October and another is the price of feedingstuffs on 15 December, especially if we have a change in weather conditions in the most unfavourable way this year? Do you not mind the experience of previous years in which the years of feedingstuffs from October to December and January increased to up to 50%? Theoretically, are the issues, or are they practical? The farmer what he's going to do with subsidisation money, will he go on vacation, or will he testify to the bank? Feed will be purchased. You have also delayed this dramatically and desperately for the Greek farmer, Minister. You told us, of course, this evening that you will start payments on Friday and the payments will be completed on 15 December. I sincerely hope, Minister, that you will be confirmed this time, because this is the second or third time you have promised payments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u360	I'm sorry, because we're here, we didn't say that. I told you we're starting on Friday and finishing on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u361	Minister, let Mr. Bukkoro speak. And if you want to add something, you can ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u362	You said, Minister - look at the Minutes - that 15 December will be completed. We were all here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u363	The loose ends of the old years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u364	And I would ask you to respect the speakers. Do not interrupt in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u365	Turn this off, Mr. Buquoir, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u366	Here we are to criticize, not to mock ears!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u367	Let's tell the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u368	The truth according to your perspective. I would ask you to take the time off, Mr President. That's right. After all, you have not proved credible in the payments for subsidies this year. Why are you protesting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u369	And you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u370	So the delay is long, it is two months. Minister, this tactic has consequences for production costs, please note this, not so easily say deliberately 'delayed payments' and applauded by the Members of the Chamber. You have also spoken about the trade balance and the cost of 2 billion in livestock products. And what makes you think, Minister, that with the wild tax you are preparing and with the tax of 26% and the tax of subsidies - which, for the first time, you voted by the Act of Legislative Content, for the Sugar Factory, for Mrs Valvane's 12 May, yes, you, any other party, for the first time, are taxing subsidies - is making you think, Mr Minister, that we will increase production and close the trade balance? Will we be able to produce more livestock products with the taxes you are preparing for farmers? For the bill, Mr Minister, in the outline of your speech, you have of course not dared to call it'reform', you called it a simple regulation, that is, a kind of arrangement, because there was legislation before and you are really dealing with these issues, and we are therefore supporting it in the right direction because it allies things up. But what was our strategic problem here, Minister? Was it not that in 2002 any Minister for Agriculture then - central-left, not right-wing - accepted the European Union's decision, the bushes of land, plentiful, woody, toasty, not to be regarded as pastures? It was in 2002. In 2007, the audits started and in 2012, 2013, 2014, we started to deal with the problems. That is the truth, because I hear from various speakers of the Partnership saying 'What have you been doing for for forty years?'. We put Greece in the European Union and enjoy subsidies for farmers and farmers. That's what we've been doing for forty years. This is what Constantine Karamanlis did, a course that you today are dynamic with your political searches, especially in your first period. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to remind you, Minister, that it was the previous government - and you said so to your honour in your speech - which, in consultation with the other countries of the South, which were facing such a problem, managed to convince the European Union, just in December 2014, to consider these lands as grazing. Elections took place in January and ten months later you brought the bill. That's the real truth. But, Minister, because time is minimal on such large issues, these are service and essential issues, of course, but it is your responsibility to draw up a productive reconstruction plan for the country and, above all, a development plan for the primary sector. I would therefore say in this context that we disagree very closely with Article 4. And I would like you to clarify here the grazing fee, which will be regulated by a joint ministerial decision, as foreseen, if it increases the costs of farmers - because they really do not have the possibility - to define it in a way that - when the final management plans are drawn up - that Greek farmers should know and be able to plan, not to go into new situations, not to go to any new livestock modes this time, because you know that studies on the final management plans are costing and management and overall projects are costing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u371	Finish it, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u372	They are generally the top points of the bill. I would say that you are transferring the trouble to the regions and the costs to farmers. That's the essence of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u373	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u374	Mr. President, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u375	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u376	Honestly, I don't want to be sad, my dear colleague. It is not possible to call inaccuracies in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u377	What's the inaccuracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u378	So I'll tell you in particular. The end of 2013 comes a law, which for the first time puts the farmer's income to be taxed with 13% of the first euro...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u379	Sure. I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u380	...and when it comes for the first time in 2015, because it was about the income of 2014 that this thing was reflected in tax statements,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u381	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u382	...the world had risen up, and indeed everyone interpreted this arrangement and Mrs. Savvaidou came...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u383	It was "done", though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u384	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u385	The interpretations are varied, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u386	Please, let me finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Bukkaro, please stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u388	...and Mrs. Savvaidou, then Secretary General of Public Income...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u389	Minister, complete your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u390	...and with its circular it is clearly stated that all farmers' incomes are meant to be aid, compensation, taxed at 13%. So we're coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no! That's how you interpret it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u392	Please! We are therefore coming in June 2015, which was the period during which the statements were made and we are bringing the regulation with Mrs Valavani, which said that compensation - for the first time, of course, compensation - was unconstitutional at that time - was provided for their taxation - and aid of up to EUR 12 000 will not be taxed. For God's sake! When did we bring in a tax arrangement? We barely did the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u393	The one from 12,000 euros and over! You legislated!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u394	Are you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u395	Do you understand what he said more forward?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u396	Mr Minister, please address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u397	Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u398	Minister, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u399	So do you interpret it and because you are addressing a very personal tone, do you commit 26% or 29%?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u400	Mr. Dannelis has the floor. Mr. Bouquet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u401	Did 13% hurt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u402	Mr. Buquoir!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u403	The 26% that comes, don't you mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Danielle, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite inappropriate that there should be constant controversy between parliamentary representatives and fellow speakers. And because I think it has been noted that... [[Noise in the Chamber]] May I, gentlemen? As I imagine you have noted that, whenever I can, I give my turn as a parliamentary representative to fellow speakers, tonight I would like to note that, sometimes, the parliamentary representative does not fulfil his role when he is obliged to place himself so many hours after the Minister has been placed or at such a distance from the other Members of Parliament. I shall confine myself only to the bills. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating today is proof of the absence of planning and programme for one of the most important sectors of the rural economy and the sectors favoured by the new common agricultural policy, as well as shortcomings in the management of commitments and outstandings which are once again dealt with warmly, roughly and fragmentedly. The Greek livestock sector clearly needs profound changes in its structure and structure, which are necessary in order to meet competition and the requirements of the times, while retaining and attracting young and capable people to meet the country's needs in high-quality and value-added products in the future. Today the country is known to produce about six hundred thousand tonnes of milk, and double the amount needed. We import 80% in beef, 70% in pork and 15% in poultry. Our aim in the coming years, if we saw the big picture, should be to increase production, standardise and certification of competing Greek livestock products, so that we can talk about sustainable development, but also a serious counterweight to the crisis. Today we should already have in front of us and discuss a national plan for productive reconstruction, which we are all talking about in theory, a plan which would give incentives to productive operators, which would propose ways of strengthening livestock production and would set a framework for making our products competitive in the particularly demanding international environment. What's all this coming from helping out today's bill? To which of the above is it going to give or even propose a substantial solution? Unfortunately - we're afraid - of nothing. In addition, we are discussing this bill in the shadow of the budget debate that starts tomorrow and brings about a series of tough tax measures for the primary sector, measures which are directly linked to competitiveness and the livestock sector, tough fiscal measures without being accompanied by the creation of conditions for the use of the new CAP's opportunities, about two years after its introduction, so that farmers' incomes are not strengthened and therefore their tax capacity is not strengthened. The increase in energy costs, as well as the increase in VAT to 23% in agricultural supplies, undoubtedly affect competitiveness and the livestock sector. It is particularly influenced by the fact that in most Member States of the European Union VAT on supplies and machinery does not exceed 6%, while cooperative schemes for the disposal of raw materials and supplies achieve economies of scale and also enjoy special tax reliefs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly necessary to implement a specific and clear policy on the management of areas that may be pedestrians. After all, every delay is borne by the weak economy in our country by additional fines and charges from the relevant European institutions. Already due to the lack of management of pastures a fine has been finalised by the European Union of EUR 322 million for the period 2009-2011, and the fine procedure has also been initiated for the period 2012-2014. Naturally, the reasons for such a policy are not just exhausted in fear or the need to protect the country from imposing fines. Pilgrims contribute both to the reduction of production costs and to the production of competitive high-quality products, which respond to international food trends, want the seal of specificity and uniqueness, if possible, through the variety of distinct Greek natural wealth. At the same time, as part of the national planning of the regional model of distribution of direct payments, grassland is one of the three regions of the new CAP, while the basic payment to farmers requires the linking of animals with a specific pasture area. The objective of a comprehensive and substantial pasture management policy can be no more than sustainable management of the valuable natural resource. Unfortunately, with the bill under discussion, you legislate on perpetuating a pathogen. There is no integrated plan for monitoring, recording or classification based on pasture durability. I think we're playing with words. Bosphoric earths or pastures? The wording used ends up being completely unclear in trying not to seem to affect forests and overcome a pathogenous overlap that has been tormenting us for decades. How many and where are the, how many, where and what are the things? Regulation of the European Union 1307/2013 in Article 7 recognises only the term term terminology of the term ‘caskland’. The terminology used in several places complicates rather than clarifys it. You are still talking about recording in Article 2, elsewhere about printing, Article 6. Are you sure there will be no problem? As my colleague, Mr Arabatzi, referred to the adventure of the definition of pasture in the European regulation, I would like to say about the history of how it happened to be understood as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Parliament at that time, when we started discussions on the CAP, that Greek pastures and, more generally, the pastures of the south, with the characteristics we all know, woody and bushes, were ineligible on the official definition. So we had to take a series of initiatives with the other Greek member of the committee, Mr Papastamkos. We mobilised our South colleagues and managed to amend the definition, after many struggles. It wasn't self-evident and it wasn't easy at all. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek countryside bears an untapped potential and has the potential to nourish much more animals, reduce costs - the most important costs for a farmer are the costs of farming - to create new jobs and produce incomes. We must move in that direction. It is not enough to positively record and imprint here, Minister. However, without a register, without clearing to the uses of land and property, I fear that we are once again postponing the problem. It is not enough for a bill that postpones and updates the dates of completion of the necessary management plans. It is not enough for a bill that clearly avoids the division of powers between a region and a municipality regarding land use as a grazing animal. From my experience as mayor to a municipality with significant agricultural and livestock land, I would point out the transfer of competence to the region, when the municipalities to the majority were unable to identify and demarcate the real grassland and clarify their ownership status. I imagine that this will be a much bigger problem for the region due to scale and distance. It is not enough for a bill that hostiles farmers, as it excludes them from the management and distribution procedures. At the same time, however, it burdens them on them at the cost of the procedure or punishes them with loss of rights if the competent authority does not ensure that the management plan is drawn up in good time. The pasture policy cannot be independent of a more general national plan for sustainable overall livestock activity. Unfortunately, however, my dear friend, Minister, you have a special knowledge of the problem and the sector in general did not take the risk of such a project. You have confined yourself to what you yourself have been accused of by the headquarters of the Opposition in the past few years. Before I close, I cannot fail to mention the latitude of the unreasonable amendments accompanying this bill. So far, twenty articles, fifteen unscrupulous ministerial amendments - I think they are close to your record - which, in the majority of them, are coming to complete, correct, or even worse, amend and overturn your own recently adopted legislation. I have mentioned many times from this Step in the anti-parliamentary way that you have adopted, already creating a sad tradition. I would once again insist that you take the law seriously. Finally, we said, Minister, that we in the first place are voting in favour of the bill. We would, however, like and expect your reply to questions that have already been asked by colleagues from the Democratic Incorporation, on paragraph 5 of Article 19, on the allocation of eligible pasture until the adoption of the management plans for grazing. Because this provision has come from the point of view of completing the bill after the debate in the committee responsible has been completed, I would like to ask the clarification that you have so far avoided giving.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u406	Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u407	Well, tomorrow's great, then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the dominant development model is geared solely to new technologies, innovations, smart applications and the linking up of all these economic, social and other actions with these new tools of survival and development comes an old, old human employment forcefully to take care of primary production. The livestock farming that has been going with our genus since ancient times to this day requires our attention and care. With the full establishment in permanent homes and the last nomadic sexes for several decades, it was also necessary to manage a pasture policy. In the past, however, governments have never taken care of the rational use of land needed for grazing by professional farmers. Destroyed to their fate, they tried to keep themselves in an environment that constantly undermined them. The trader, the dairy industry, the costs for the food and the operation of a livestock unit were always at the expense of the small and medium-sized farmers. The pastures today are the same that existed in ancient Greece. Farmers are exploited for these old-fashioned natural areas without any plan for their integrated exploitation. There is no mapping and therefore there is no clear demarcation, which is borne by the diversity of the property regime. A reliable plan is therefore submitted, linking the livestock sector's finances with care for the proper diet and veterinary care of herds, which ensures products that are competitive with added value, such as products of protected designation of origin and products of protected geographical indication. Time is dense and unfortunately the issue of pasture management is a constant wound to the country's rural economy. On the days of PASOK, the fine of EUR 322 million imposed on our country, from the management of the issue from 2009 to 2011, is well known. We received a grant from the European Union of 440 million for ninety thousand farms and returned as a fine of 322 million - a PASOK project. Another case, therefore, of the majesty and irritation of the previous governments is settled by the present Government. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the new common agricultural policy, the aid we will receive for livestock farming is about clearly delimiting the grazing areas. Also important are the arrangements of this draft law for livestock, poultry, stable facilities, insurance contributions and ELGA correspondents, the concession of rural departments to professional schools, the traceability of animal products and by-products and plant protection products. And a few words, Minister, for the Attica region, about the unjust farmers and farmers in the region who supply the urban complex of Athens and Piraeus with fresh products. The farmers in this region receive a very small proportion of the money from subsidies in relation to their colleagues in the other regions - this under the 1995 law, the PASOK project and that. The farmers and the farmers of Attica were also outside the first ESDP for young farmers - a PASOK project and that. In the case of grazing land by law of 1993 - a New Democracy project - the cultivation of sheep and goats in non-stage areas in Attica was prohibited, resulting in a sharp increase in production costs. Now, there is at last some liberalisation in this draft law. I hope that other courageous steps will be taken and that the major issue of the demarcation of the grassland in our country is settled, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to pass this bill, which only positive results have for an important and importantly sensitive area, such as that of livestock farming in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Centroon Union, Mr Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr President. We read yesterday in 'CATHMERINA': 'EUR 2 billion for imports of meat and dairy products. Even from Botswana it imports meat from Greece." It is therefore a matter of the deficit both in livestock and in its products. So today a bill is coming, which we are discussing in plenary, and which is trying to extend those areas to be allocated for grazing. Good work is being done. But can this yield? We have a positive attitude to see it, but as long as we get closer to it we start to fear that it will not work. I would therefore like to refer to two - three historical elements of the path of pasture in Greece. Renamed pasture topics in 1987. Mr Apostle, obviously, remembers Law 1734 of 1987 and his course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u412	He was judged unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u413	She came out unconstitutional because? Because it also included woodlands and then the Council of State said that grazing provided for land intervention, which could not be delimited by law. So the question of pastures ended that attempt of 1987. This same effort comes back in 2015, that is, almost thirty years later. I fear, however, that we are going back to the exact same point. I read the law. He says, “They can be included, in the well-known sense - high, bushy vegetation, pork, torchy - and wooded areas in demarcated pastures. ” But under what conditions? Subject to compliance with forestry legislation and environmental legislation. Is the question automatically raised: Should we have, when invoking environmental legislation, a strategic environmental study for all the pastures of Greece, a strategic environmental study by regions of Greece, or should we have an environmental study, if we invoke environmental legislation, in each pasture separately? It doesn't answer, Mr. Apostleu, the bill. At least I don't understand it giving me an answer. I'll see you later. But if we are applying environmental legislation, then - because it is forest-based intervention - there must also be approval of intervention. There must be an intervention approval, so we must say that in order to demarcate these pastures, which we hope in 2019 are over, we want another five to ten years. And I'll say why I'm saying that. I say this because it takes an environmental study in Greece six to seven years. I didn't see it published earlier. It has such a complex procedure and so many conditions that it will not be possible to issue earlier. My question, therefore, comes back and becomes much stronger, Mr Minister, because you have added a recast to Article 8(3), that 'if grazing land surrounds or parts of forest land, it is also possible to use grazing and interventions which serve it, in accordance with the provisions of forestry and environmental legislation and this law'. Therefore, you now enter the need for an environmental study and an authorisation for intervention. So, in our view, the possibility of implementing the bill is being nullified. I'm going to another matter. Maybe I'm tired, maybe it's legal. So we have conflicts of land use. Nowhere in this bill says that if we have a demarcated pasture we have the possibility of other interventions and what prevails. Article 8 gives the impression that the grazing of pasture prevails, in which case all the other possible uses on forest land disappear. Indeed, it also puts the concept of the public interest, that the pasture is a greater public interest. We have to say something here. With the effort to reach the forty million acres - I don't know if they need to, I don't even know how this was calculated - then, now, we're going to put huge areas out of the economy for other uses. You have to answer that. And I'm not talking about changing the form of forests and forest land. I am talking about the possible interventions, Mr Apostleus, of the sixth chapter of n. 998. Look at this, please, because it can be put on the runway and you have a problem, which will prevent not only the operation of pastures, but will prevent other productive uses, such as forest exploitation, and such as the exploitation of mineral wealth within forests and forest areas. So let's just say that they're overrun. We are going to another issue, which arouses the pastures of Greece. Since 1833, imposed by law of the Ottona grazing tax, the property regime of Greece has not been solved, not only in the pastures, in the woodlands, in the non-forest land, but also in the definition of the old Forest Code. No one has concluded which are grassland, which are forests, which can be grazed, which cannot be grazed. But let's get through this. Let's go down. Why forty million acres? Today, if I'm not mistaken, I think we have fifteen, which are prepared as pastures. If we talk about forty million acres, then we need to see in this legislation and incentives. I have the statistic here of the Greek Statistical Authority. It speaks of stagnation in the number of animals, stagnation in the number of farms, stagnation in the number of entrepreneurs, shepherds, shepherds, as you will call them. What motive are we going to give? Are we just going to increase the land? Is that enough? Are we going to increase and tell each farmer today that we are giving twice as much, three times the size of pasture as we give him the right to cultivate, reap the predominance of one piece, grazing the other, to change the areas over time, but to pay already? Paying rent? So we do not see the motive given by this law. And why am I saying it? I have heard too much about the European Union's aid. I have heard that the aid is great, I have heard that the aid will be increased, I have heard about the new CAP. But I heard something else. I have heard about the fines that are coming back and continue and eventually remove European aid, because most of them are ineligible, whether in the case of pastures or in the case of the natural persons of the shepherds. Is the law solved? Oh, no. It does not solve it, because it leaves a suspicion that we are raising the acres, if we can manage to get foreigners a little bit - we have them for a few times - to give us greater support. And by giving us greater support, we'll be good in the world and say, "Do you know what? You got a subsidy." Do not forget, however, that the Greeks, the Greeks, and the shepherd and the farmer, are at risk from one thing: In a short time, we will end up asking not for the state to return from the city, but from the one who was premiumd and we will put it in the habit. The concepts of recovery of European aid are well known. Does your ministry have such matters every day or am I wrong, Mr. Apostleu?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u414	We will also bring in arrangements for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u415	Let's see that, too. But so far you haven't brought it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u416	There's an amendment in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u417	I don't get it. They didn't notice. I wish it were. But I see that subsidies will be claimed and that is where the world will no longer launder us. I will continue and try to finish in the next couple of minutes, Mr President. We are talking about costs and that with the pasture we will reduce the costs of the farmer. But are the other costs of the farmer, such as taxation, contributions from the OGA, ELGA, as we call it today? Are other services offered by the Greek state to enable the farmer to have a healthy and lasting farm for livestock? We're saying, yes, we'll be able to, because we're giving him the extension. We're giving him a prolongation of the n. For two-three years, it can be legalised. I'll tell him if he's got any weight-negatives. With the continual extensions, on all the issues we give here in the House, do you know what we're giving? We're giving immunity to illegality, gentlemen! I have to say it and let them blame me. With this legislation we are constantly giving immunity to illegality because we are not dealing with matters directly and actively so that the world can be relieved, but we are holding him hostage. Do the parties, the political forces want to hold him hostage at this point, to have a customer relationship? Solve these problems. You have no choice at this time but to go ahead and deal with these pathologies, because otherwise in some time the country will have no chance of getting out of this stagnation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr Carras, and respect for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u419	I was not very brief, but I tried.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u420	Yes, thank you. Mr Simorellis has the floor from SYRIZA
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u421	It is a little awkward and a little tiring after 12 o'clock to discuss and, if possible, to watch us. Minister, I'm really glad this bill comes today. And I'm very pleased because I'm from the Trikala area, where there's a lot of livestock, a lot of people involved in livestock farming, and they're having a lot of trouble. I hope with this bill that we can solve some of their problems. Also, let me use the term 'boss'. When yesterday in Trikala I used the term 'casing earths', I was told 'do the least of them, so we can understand it'. I would also like to make a comment on the New Democracy colleagues. You're telling us we're late to give the rights. Do not forget, however, that we have loose ends since 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, if I am not wrong. Let's keep this in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, it is passed in plenary session, after much consultation with the relevant bodies and the scientific community, the draft law on pastures and other provisions. It is of enormous importance for the Greek society and the economy, but also for us as a legislator, to introduce and become state-owned bills aimed at developing and supporting the agricultural sector. With these provisions, we achieve support for livestock farming and the exploitation, protection and proper distribution of pastures. We want to use as many areas as possible for animal grazing as possible within scientific limits. In our election commitments it was that despite the fundamental measures that have been blackmailed, we will try in terms of justice and equality to take steps towards the country's development and productive reconstruction. It is commonly accepted that strengthening the production base and, above all, the primary sector are a prerequisite for us to move away from the Memorandum Committee. The evidence shows that we produce only 65% of the meat and 70% of the milk we consume. Apart from the nutritional adequacy, which is reasonable for every country to seek, surplus amounts are spent annually for the import of missing food from the Greek market. In recent years, imports of meat and milk have reached around 40% of imported foods, with a loss of around EUR 1.5 billion per year. Also, an important element in the explanatory statement is that animal food reaches 60% of the production costs of a livestock unit. So we see that the development of livestock is suffering from high production costs mainly because of food costs. This factor creates low competitiveness. The limited participation of pastures in feeding the living is the main cause. With full information on the area of grazing land, the grazing capacity and the number of animals can be calculated. In this way, effective control in the production chain can be carried out. It is no coincidence that in the past we have seen many scandals in the world involving animal feed and aiming to reduce these costs. So here we do not want to feed live with chemical food, at the expense of human health, and with a view to profit, but to record and distribute the pastures which, according to the competent scientists, can be exploited. Furthermore, we see that Greece does not properly absorb livestock payments and does not properly exploit pastures, so that we pay fines that often exceed EUR 2.5 billion. So here's one more reason to build a national plan to use existing resources to get rid of the extra costs. And because there is a lot to be heard, the Minister has made it clear that declassifying forest land is off the agenda. The ecology was and will be an element of our identity. At the time of the economic and environmental crisis, a social and ecological transformation of the production process is necessary, in the direction of an economy of social needs and environmental endurance. In this sense, the proper management of pastures, so the increase in feed production, under specific conditions that we will ensure, can go along with the protection of the natural environment. Also very positive is the fact that it is created for the first time in our country National Geographical Database of the necessary grazing land using geoinformatics science. The mapping, continuous monitoring and update will ensure the optimisation of use at national level. Ladies and gentlemen, our data shows that the potential grazing land is 50 million acres. It's a good start. We must progressively ensure that this country enters a development path. The use of natural resources by preventing environmental damage is the bet we have in front of us. To achieve organisation, plan and political will for areas and conflicts with bad practices of the past. All our actions must serve the interests of the people and the need to get away from austerity. In other words, we have a lot of struggle in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr. Simorellis. Mr. Ursuzidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed all the committees that have been held on this issue. I tried to approach it as much as I can, since I do not have the special knowledge. I heard the views of the Opposition. I believe that, in general terms, we are all moved to vote on the bill, because we all recognise that there is a problem. The problem is the distribution of the available grazing land so that the injustices that we have experienced in recent years do not arise in the future. I think everyone thinks that the bill to be passed is on a positive track, solves time-consuming problems and restricts the fines imposed for many years by the European Union. The Committee's meetings came and submitted proposals and observations in the context of the consultation, so that the draft law can be as comprehensive and effective as possible. Because we have to listen and accept the expert opinion, I will refer to the opinion expressed by the OPECE representative, who is the most appropriate body. It is the Control and Payment Agency, accredited by the European Union to comply with the regulation and national provisions, in order to resolve the problems arising from the allocation of subsidies and, in this case, pastures. What we should be interested in is removing all the weaknesses that existed in the past. It is a story that starts at least since 2000 and was dramatically burdened after 2009, so that the country suffers significant budgetary sanctions at very high rates, because the history of pastures did not find a solution in line with the implementation of European Commission regulations. Suffice it to say that, from 2010 to 2014, financial correction amounts were imposed on the country, commonly fines, of the amount of EUR 502.007.443, data submitted by the representative of the OPECE, as I said, at the hearing of the bodies in the committee responsible. In the case of this law, all the relevant bodies have contributed with their experts and executives, in an effort to reach consensus so that the eligible land is now specific and not exposed to errors and omissions, because - as you may know - while Greece does not receive the highest percentages for rural development and for subsidies, it has very high fines, as I said, which it unfortunately pays. With this law, I have the impression that the management of the matter is being smoothly managed. It is successful to ensure eligibility, which allows us to optimise that in the medium term at least we do not have any problems dealing with the issues of the distribution of pastures and, consequently, subsidies, as was stated by all the experts in committee. It is also known that 80% of subsidies go to 20% of farmers or farmers and, respectively, 80% of farmers receive 20% of subsidies. This is an issue that needs to be changed and changed, since this bill puts things in place, as it aspires to do. I don't want to say more about the bill. I would just like to emphasise my personal experience with people bio-palestors, farmers who have literally been engaged in livestock farming and have unfortunately been found outside the subsidy system because some have gone to'strengthen the cycle', as they have said. I don't want to be burnt. I want to be in a consensual context, but there cannot be this injustice suffered by small farmers but those who really support and give that quality both to milk and milk products. They cannot be wronged in this way. These cases are already known, apart from the natural perpetrators and political leaders of previous governments, now and in legal circles that are studying recourse to justice. Personally, I will support every attempt of the wrongdoer and ask for his rightfulness. The injustice is obvious in their case, since they have been deprived of all the resources necessary to continue their honest activity traditionally involving their survival. I hope that, in view of the bill in question, the intentions, injustices and arbitraryness of the recent past will be lifted, so that Greece can gain in a credible way what is a subsidy and continue to promote the wonderful traditional products produced by our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr. Ursuzides for the time economy. Here comes Mrs. Papanatsiou, the last speaker from SYRIZA, and we are done with Mrs. Iglezis. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on grazing land is a bill that should have been passed and implemented many years earlier, long before there were areas damaged by erosion, because of over-heating or fires, due to subjugation, long before Greece's farmers lost significant sums from European aid, long before Greece started paying over-priced sums of fines. When I was elected Member of Parliament, one of my first meetings was with farmers joining agri-environment programmes. Both their economic and psychological situation was very bad. The debate we had shown that due to the significant reductions and delays which had been made in the various aids made it impossible to feed their animals, to reduce milk, to produce even 50%, to not be able to renew their herd which had lost disease or slaughtered it in order to sell the meat, to have no money to pay certificates for organisations, scholars, accountants, VAT, veterinary surgeons, etc. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, our livestock farmers have arrived. I believe that you all know how hard and binding the farmer's profession is. The Greek breeder who has his herd in the mountains has no celebration, has no leave of summer or sickness. He has to be on his herd every day. Even in the worst conditions of bad weather, it should run miles into the cold, snow and rain to visit and take care of its lives. The policies of the previous governments have reached the farmer, the man who supports the Greek countryside and especially the mountainous countryside, and who should be proud of the high-quality products he produces, to fight for the self-evident, as to whether he will have money to feed his animals to cure them. I believe that two are the main mistakes of the previous governments. The first is that with their policy and choices, the client state that set up, prevented and undermined any efforts made to get the Greek farmer to organise through cooperative organisations and thereby to verticalize his production and thus claim a better reward for his product. Thus, many farmers have found themselves highly dependent on European aid. I remember what he had said at some point in Anogia in Crete a local there, that "fire was and erased". The second mistake is that, with the same indifference and oligopoly, they have not taken care to ensure that this aid is given consistently and correctly. They have not taken care to understand in Europe what animals and, above all, sheep and goats in Greece are feeding. They did not make it clear in time that the high-quality livestock products produced by Greece - and we are not only talking about famous feta - owes much of their quality to animal nutrition, which is based on the rich flora of our mountains. They managed to bring the farmers to despair, as there were farmers who remained with zero eligible pasture in 2013 in the process of redefining and redistributing the eligible area of pasture for Greece, thus paying great fines for our country. I believe that two are the challenges that our government has. The first is to define and demarcate the natural habitat of the livestock animals of Greece and define through the grazing management plans their use in such a way as to protect the natural environment, the sustainability of forests and forest land, to ensure their use for other purposes such as recreation, logging, etc. I believe that the draft law we are debating today is in this direction. The second challenge is to rectify the cooperative movement so that the Greek grower and farmer can claim a better remuneration for his products, identify his production, stabilise his income through the presence of products on the domestic or external markets. Soon we will also have the bill for cooperative organisations that we believe will be able to give new impetus to agricultural production and therefore to the productive reconstruction of Greece. Both the previous and the current government have fought many strong battles in a short time in order to reverse the situation in Greek livestock farming. With regard to the issue of eligible areas of pasture, they managed to salvage to a large extent the income of farmers with the agreement they reached with the European Commission in July 2015. Today's bill goes on in the future and comes to support Greek extensive livestock farming, ensuring it scientifically correct the necessary grazing areas, thus significantly reducing the costs of farming and boosting the development of the industry. I would like to refer to the other provisions of the bill and, above all, to Article 12. Paragraph 1 shall be extended to those who are not yet authorized to set up stables to produce it until September 2016. I think it is good, because there are many farmers who have started the process for authorisation, but they have not yet completed it. However, for farmers who are integrated into agri-environmental programmes for organic farming and for the preservation of rare breeds, which in my region, Magnesia, we have too many such cases, there is a need for a licence to be granted to them, which means that even though they are granted an extension to prevent them from being granted the programme, they will not be paid directly, but they will be paid retroactively, when they are given the permanent permit. In many areas temporary licences, issued when they deposited the licence file, have expired without the final licence being issued. We all have to admit that, unfortunately, there are too many complaints from the regions that government agencies because of their secondment often delay issuing the necessary certificates for the issue of licences. On the other hand, livestock farmers who have joined organic farming have increased costs in relation to other farmers - payment of an organisation's certificate, organic feed which is more expensive - and a reduction in production in general. For this reason, I propose, if possible, as far as agri-environmental programmes are concerned and in cases where authorisation procedures are already in place, that the payment of the aid be disconnected from the acquisition of the final licence by September 2016 and at the same time that some efforts are made to avoid delaying the issue of the permanent authorisation if there are no substantial obstacles. I would like to conclude with one wish and one observation: it is certain that we will do our best to bring a class to the unreservedly structured area of primary production. This bill is proof. I hope, in the end, that we can say that we have made the start of the restructuring of this multi-faceted sector. I hope that everything will go well so that we can discuss the productive reconstruction of our country based on our comparative advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u426	The last speaker from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr President. Although it was not my intention to refer to something other than the bill, Mr Vayonas' reference to lumpy skin disease, which has affected our prefecture and much more my own country, my village of Ierissos, has caused me to refer to this matter. I'm sure the blow the county received was too big. However, let us not worry, Mr Vagionas, that farmers who have lost their animals will also abandon the profession of the farmer. Already, from what I know and from what I have spoken with them, they are in the process of replacing their animal capital and continuing with the same desire to practice their profession, because they are young people and very successful people in their field. I believe that even with the support of the Ministry they will manage to make their livestock units again viable and blossom again. For these are real investments that are appropriate in our prefecture and not the pharanonic gold mines supported by Mr Vayon. But let us come to the bill that is in the same direction as these investments. Colleagues and colleagues, the plan we are debating today is one of the first legislations on the side of the country's ecological and productive reconstruction. That is why, in my opinion, this debate is important. Veterinarian farming, and especially extensive farming, is one of the important branches of our primary production. Direct grazing of animals on areas with a variety of plant species leads to the production of high quality and nutritional value. These high-quality products can be our country's comparative advantage in the European and international market. The production of recognised traditional products, such as PDO and PGI, and the added value they create, contribute not only to the competitiveness of Greek livestock, but also to the incentive for farmers to continue rearing local breeds and the extensive management of their herds, because these are essential characteristics of traditional products. The example of such a product is the well known to all of us. In this light, therefore, the will of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to manage the country's grazing land is important and necessary. But there are some points in the bill on which I have serious objections, and I would like to concentrate on them. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about grazing and managing it, the first thing we think about is livestock farming. And that's right. That's our first thought. But grazing is one of the most important environmental services crucial to ecosystems themselves. For this reason, the management of grazing areas cannot be cut off from the management of other natural ecosystems, i.e. forests, wetlands, etc. It must be part of the integrated management of all areas with natural vegetation. Already, since 1836, legislation has been dealing with grazing as a measure for the management of terrestrial natural ecosystems. It is therefore rather problematic today to discuss the isolation of grazing from the wider issues of forest management. I am referring in particular to forests because the areas to which this bill refers are, in the majority, forests and forest areas and therefore fall within forest protection, development, management and legislation. The grazing is today the most extensive land use. What we really need, not only in order to develop our national planning, but also in order to meet our European commitments, is to census and map the areas of pasture, which has had to be done for years by the previous governments who have left farmers without European aid. Only by mapping, then, can we lead to proper management. It is not right, however, that this mapping should not relate to the recording of the country's forest wealth, that is to say, the forest maps and the Land register. I think that any mapping provided by the bill should in practice be compatible with the existing backgrounds of OPEKEPE and of the register, and I believe that the Ministry will take care of this. Colleagues, the question is not that we lack areas eligible for funding our farmers. We lack the mapping of areas in accordance with the CFP's definition of suitability, so that farmers can then be allocated to them as well. That is why I believe that it is not forests and forestry legislation that has been laid down for the development of livestock and that Article 103 of the Forest Code should not be abolished, and that is why there are categories of forests and forests that are not grazed in the way laid down in this bill, but they may be grazed as a forest management measure. Therefore, the absence of legislation regulating this issue will lead to confusion, to problems in grazing, perhaps also to restrict it and to the management of land ecosystems. Another issue that is raised is the possibility of the Forest Service to carry out forestry works within forests that are subject to grazing. It is not possible for grazing to be the capital use and the rest of the parallel and resulting. This will create great problems in implementation as well. An interpretative question should be avoided on the permissible interventions and activities of the Forest Service in grazing land. For while the provision in paragraph 1 is mentioned - a commitment to pasture in accordance with the provisions of forestry legislation, including authorised interventions and forestry works, it is next in paragraph 2 to speak of uses compatible. The question is whether the Forest Service will be excluded from actions in the forestry area, because the land is grazing and the uses it promotes are considered incompatible with grazing. However, despite my above-mentioned objections and my remarks, I believe that this bill has nothing to do with previous laws, which pretentiously have attempted to declassify forest land and collapsed into the CCT. None of the proposed provisions show the intention of declassifying forests and land, as they claim falsely and misrepresentatively known provocative media. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is really inappropriate to call this bill a foresticide, as I have heard from my dear colleague. In conclusion, I believe that the Ministry of Rural Development in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment can provide a comprehensive solution to the issues of grazing, forest management and livestock farming. We must compose, in order to reduce problems and to be truly useful to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Mrs. Igleze. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at this point on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Greek land and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u430	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u431	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Global land and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-30-S1-commons.u432	With the consent of the House, the sitting for Tuesday, December 1st, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of the House continuing to debate and voting on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Bossible land of Greece and other provisions'.
