ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The sixth question will be discussed under No 416/7-2015 of the Second Cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the financing programme and the operation of the children's stations. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the timely question is by postponement and it was about the funding programme and the operation of children's stations. Of course we have the evolution of the call for expressions of interest of the EBRD for the implementation of the "Harmonization of family and working life" programme involving children and infant stations, as well as the CIDA and CIDA - AMEO. On July 10, we had the issue of the draft documentary and application dates for parents for nurseries. This process should have started a long time ago. In other words, there is a significant delay, and there is a question of whether it will all be ready in September, so that children's and infants' stations and CDIs and CDIs can be opened up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] What's new evidence? The funds announced are 4 million less than last year, from 188 million to 184 million. And this, while we all know that people's needs have been multiplyed and multiplied from time to year, because of the protracted capitalist economic crisis. I would remind you that the CEDEFOP has also asked for the annual budget of the programme to be increased to EUR 250 million for the school year 2015-2016, as well as for the entire programming period of the new NSRF. And, of course, it was also proposed that the programme be given timely notice. In fact, the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotou, at his meeting with the CEDEFOP, has undertaken to make every effort to ensure that the funding is as much as this year, in other words, EUR 200 million, but also to seek ways to increase it. In fact, it had referred the matter to a special debate which would take place in a technical working party. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The fact is that on the basis of actual needs, the existing guaranteed funding is sufficient for a much smaller number of pupils. That is to say, the real needs will not be met. In fact, this year's reduction comes from national resources. From EUR 63 million last year, this year it is falling to EUR 46 million. In other words, this is a reduction of 17 million, of which part of this difference is covered by the MAGPs. We know, as you know, how precarious Community funding is. In fact, in a previous timely question, you have answered that it is not possible to cover them only through the NRP. It should all be public, both through the Public Investment Program and through the creation of a permanent social service of the municipalities, so that it is fully integrated into the operation of the social state, at the level of the municipality, etc. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] The funds that contributed last year amounted to EUR 125 million and EUR 63 million from national funds. This was a total of EUR 188 million I told you about. These, then, served about eighty - five thousand students. In my dentistry, I'm going to say more things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. However, the questions which have now been asked and which are being answered - we are broadening them, because that is necessary - are as follows: Firstly, what do you intend to do in order to implement the programme in a timely manner, given the delays that already exist? Secondly, on the basis of the funding you have announced, how many children for this year will finally pass the threshold of the children's stations and of the CIDUs and CIDUs - CIDUs? Thirdly, what will happen with the renewal of the contracts for workers with the NRP, after the programme expires on 31 July? They'll be renewed so they can get to work on September 1st? There is also the bureaucratic issue of the act of the Ministerial Council, which is very time-consuming. And last year people worked since September, but the renewal of their contracts took place in December. How will the obstacles likely to delay renewals be overcome by 1 September? You are also asking whether the government is considering the permanentisation of staff, which is currently connected to the programme, but whose existence is now crucial to the elementary functioning of nursery schools in the municipalities and has already undergone the procedures of the AACC. In this context, what do you intend to do with the primary, favourable decisions of workers who have already gone to the court by municipalities for annulment of the primacy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u3	Mr Colleague, you have a second language, because it is already five minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u4	Allow me. Give me the chance. I refer to the questions, and I shall conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u5	The two minutes have become five, and you have the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u6	I'll be done. Fourthly, will the Government further increase the state funding beyond the EUR 46 million that it gives for 2015-2016 from the Public Investment Programme? Fifthly, how will the national funds not specified in the EBRD notice be allocated? And, sixthly, what about the instalments pending from the NSRP for the year 2014-2015 that expires shortly? Until now, many municipalities - I do not know if this is the case for all of Greece - have only been paid the first instalment of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your first answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Synonymous, thank you for coming back to these questions. I hope that we do not need - at least this year - to talk about this again. My answer is that we are literally waging a race and we have the most favourable and discriminatory attitude to this issue, which is extreme social and in which the sensitivity that the public, the state, must show in this regard, is self-evident. We did, in fact, guarantee the same number of children who were last year - that is, close to the eighty-five thousand, if I am not mistaken - the 184 million. The relevant CPD came out, and all the rest of it came out. I hope that we will try - and that is why I told you about a race - to do all the things they need in relation to work. The contracts will be renewed. You know that under the current regime and the article of the Constitution, since we are talking about this type of employment relationship, they cannot change in indefinite time, even though they are in our programme and our perception of moving some time towards a different set of working relations. We do not yet know - and you know - how many children will be required this year, on the basis of the criteria that have been laid down, to meet this need. If there is a need to increase funding, we will try to find it, you can be sure. Some elements in the molecules have been changed for greater isology based on clearing agents rather than other factors added to the molecules. In general, we have called for cooperation and we are in contact with the institutions, so that the municipalities can also be given the other dose. As far as the matter you have raised as the sixth is concerned, we will do everything we can to ensure that there are no gaps and that the maximum is met in relation to this primary and extremely substantial social need for our children, that you be sure of that, and we hope that we will move on in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister, and the consistency of time. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u10	Minister, I think we all understand that the number of nurseries and nurseries covers a very small part of children. I come from a region and from a municipality - it seems to me that I have told you in an earlier timely question I have asked you on this subject again - which seems that the vast majority of new couples have no chance of sending the baby or child to a municipal school or nursery. Yes, the numbers are very revealing. Recently, by studying the Municipality of Heraklion, of about nineteen thousand births in the last five years in Heraklion, only a thousand seven hundred seventy children - and of these eight hundred twenty through the NRP - were absorbed by the children's stations. We're talking about a very small percentage of children crossing the child's stop. So you realize that the needs are much larger. Neither is it enough for eighty or two hundred or two-five, neither the infrastructure nor the workers, nor five different types of employment relationships: permanent workers, undetermined workers, workers through the NSRP, workers who send them from the OAED to do their practical work and, in essence, take the job of two employees. And we have the 'new fruit', which the municipalities pass over the costs to parents, that is, the foodstuffs themselves, taking on staff at the children's stations to enable them to respond. So you realize that the problem is much greater and it will grow even more. For us, at least, for the JRC, since the junior stations have become municipal, with the consent of the parties of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Coalition, then, the parents have started to take on a very large part of the operation of children's and baby stations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, all this gradually leads to the privatization, by the creation of so-called social enterprises, the cooperatives, the so-called COMMDs promoted by the European Union - and, of course, as all previous governments, it seems that today's process will continue - in order to relieve the state and municipalities of the social welfare obligation as a whole. Of course, this is not just an economic issue. Pre-school education cannot be treated as a luxury, but as a basic need first of all for the child, which cannot be measured by financial indicators. We therefore believe that all those measures necessary for the operation of children's facilities must be ensured. Removal of food supplies. To become staff with a permanent fixed employment relationship, to increase this staff, to increase funding for the creation of new modern and safe kindergartens, because many of the kindergartens do not even meet the conditions for getting children into them. From that point on, of course, we demand the brave increase in funding so that all children can, without conditions and, above all, whether they are unemployed or not. Because you are well aware that a parent who is unemployed cannot send his child, because the argument is that, as long as a woman sits at home, she can take care of the child. You know that very well. It is a key argument today, in the year 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u12	I shall begin with the last thing you have said, because, indeed, things are changing for the better, of course, at a rate much smaller than those we would like and those that we could have done. Now, on the basis of mobilisation, a head start has been given for unemployed women and insecure workers. It has changed this given, which you said - and you are absolutely right - that in previous years there was a suffocating situation for the couples and women who were looking for a job and who had no place to leave the children. On the basis of mobilisation, this element has been changed in favour of the unemployed. For all children, let me tell you that, of course, they are covered less than what we would like and what we should like to see. But that's one hundred and twenty - five thousand, if I remember well, and the eighty - five thousand are covered. It would be a good thing if we could have the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u13	Applications.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u14	Yeah, I'm talking about applications, yeah. What you said about Heraklion obviously does not get between two and a half years old, which is the whole pre-school term for children. It would have been good at some point to reach a hundred and twenty-five thousand and that had happened since yesterday, since last year or we could have done so this year. I repeat that we are making every effort. For example, for the NSRF, which, of course, on the basis of the agreement that will be approved for the country will be put into completely new bases, we hope that the commitment made to the forward nature of social issues will not only be implemented, but will also be able to have additional funds available for these programmes for the first two - three years. In other words, in these years, we will also be able to make progress in the form of the Status which you have said and which I have spoken about, the public character of public investment, and also through the Public Investment Programme or the normal budget of social expenditure for these stations, to be able to be in our obligations fully integrated as a state and to increase these funds. This is one of the bets which we too will be able to make in the field of governance and you through your consistent parliamentary function will put forward and try to respond each time and with some steps forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the letter sent to the President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, by the Prime Minister, on the subject: 'Governmental change'. By the 53/18-7-2015 Presidential Decree, published in FEK 82/18-7-2015 (cf. A) their resignations were accepted: 1) Panagiotis Lafazanis of Georgios from the position of Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy; 2) Panagiotis Skourletis from the position of the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity; 3) Georgiou Katrougalos of Stelios - Panagiotis from the position of Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, 4) Constantine - Heraklion Isle of Nicholas from the position of Deputy Minister of National Defence, 5) Nicholas Houdi of the Kingdom from the position of Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, (b) Olgas - Nadia Valavani of Georgiou from the position of Deputy Minister of Finance; 7) Demetrios Ioannis's Army from the position of Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, (8) Gabriel Sakellaridis of George from the position of Deputy Prime Minister and were relieved of their duties. By the 54/18-7-2015 Presidential Decree, published in FEK 83/18-7-2015 (v. A) the following were appointed: 1) Panagiotis Skourletis of the Kingdom in the place of Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy; 2) George Katrougalos of Stelios - Panagiotis as Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity; 3) Christoforos Vernardakis of Demosthenes in place of Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, 4) Dimitrios Vitsas of Athanasios in position of Deputy Minister of National Defence, 5) Ithanasia Peter's Diagnostopoulou in place of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs 6) The Treasure Alexiadis of Zafiri in position of Deputy Minister of Finance (7) Olga Gerovali of the Kingdom in the place of the State Secretary to the Prime Minister. 8) Paul Paulakis of Peter in position of Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. 9) John Amanatidis of George at the place of the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. 10) Paul Haikalis of George in the place of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u16	The first question under number 427/14-7-2015 of the first cycle of MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandra Chanaka, to the Minister of National Defence, on the performance of the areas of the Asmakopoulou camp and the airport of Amydaleon Kavala in local government will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth question under number 423/13-7-2015, first question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nikolas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the role of TIPED in exploiting the Greek will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second question will be discussed under No 425/14-7-2015, the first question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Economou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the development of the 13th High School of Aymnasia Acharon as a police department in the region. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Panousis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, although many people say that I am convinced and do not give up on the cases that I take on in politics, I must tell you that for this particular case I was about to give up and stop my involvement after twenty-parliamentary interventions over the last eleven years on this issue, because I have considered - and I am still not convinced - that the ridiculousness of this Greek state, which has led us here to the terrible situation, is invincible. In other words, you can't win this Greek state, the leaderships that went through at times, in front of the elementary, self-evident, common sense. I asked the 20th timely question for three reasons: Firstly, because I hope, and I hope that Mr Panossi's presence may give way to the problem. Secondly, I hope and believe that the presence of Mayor Aharones, Mr Casavou, may also give her a way out. And thirdly, there are thousands of our fellow citizens in the Acharnes area in Menidi, who have been fighting, struggling and trying this case, and for too many years. There are representatives of them here today from the Anti-Criminality and Drugs Association. So the three cases and possibilities at the same time prompted me to do - I believe - the last intervention. Because now I'm being handwriting, when a whole subject goes on, you talk about it and you bring it back to Parliament again and again with no effect... The Minister, Mr Panousis, although he has not given up many years in politics, I think he fully understands the art of politics and how symbolisms can play an important role if you want to achieve a great result. And because the last few years have heeded the fact that the case of the Municipality of Acharnon is a special case and that there you can really work to combat crime and drugs by making concrete speeches, I hope and believe, after so many years, that the Minister will have something to say about this issue, that is, if the abandoned school, which has never worked in Australia, of the Municipality of Acharnon, is a police department. There's a city's consent. I see here the former Member of Parliament, Mr Katsigiannis, who is now Secretary of the Municipality of Acharnon, who, with his experience and his know-how, has helped, as has Mayor Yiannis Kassavos, on this issue, and has relaunched this issue. I know that Yannis Panousis the Minister is in this case very positive. Today, however, I expect the message that will leave the Greek Parliament to the people who are following us - and they are following us because I have at least made sure that I disseminate this debate and parliamentary intervention - to be a message to the world that lives in the Minidia, but above all, Minister, that it is a message to the entire Greek bureaucracy that this issue must at last be resolved. That is to change the use of the school, take the police station there and start running a police station for the entire municipality of Acharnon, the multipathous municipality of Acharnon, on the issues of crime and narcotics. I shall conclude, Mr President. Because you know it's not just on the part of the court. The other day, I made an intervention for the train station. It is incomprehensible that a person cannot get closer to making use of the railway station and suburban in the Municipality of Acharnon, Mr President, because there are five hundred people running under the influence of drugs and it is essentially a occupied area of these people who are suffering and having the big problem. This is a dramatic situation, especially in the wider region.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u19	The challenge for a ministry and a minister is the difficult areas, how you manage a difficult area. That's why we went, as you know, dear MP and friend, together with two generals, two generals, in the Municipality of Acharnon, we saw the police station and spoke with the municipal authority, with the orders and with the residents. And I want to believe that what is being said is that there is an increased sense of security at the moment, because we have created a special business plan - every municipality, every county, it has its own crime, you cannot have a model for everything - and it is where the police will adopt this municipality to prove that there is a system of counter-criminal policy. But we went and saw the buildings. These abandoned buildings, which have never worked as a school building. And we really need to win the bureaucracy bet, because the Ministry's will is for granted. I'm against bureaucracy, too. I want this to work. I want this to happen. We have seen it in every aspect of police restructuring, security, space, social cohesion, differentiation. We did, as you know, "different barriers" and those users who come, don't come, if they come, get arrested, arrest the guilty. We have done various things in the Municipality of Acharnon and I think it is also a success. We must therefore escape from the four procedures, the decision of the Board of Directors of the Municipality which we have, the ratification of the decision by the Region of Attica, the decision to grant from the Ministry of Education, and the acceptance of the donation from ELAS. The ELAS is ready on this side. And he wants to do it and he will. I am pleased that Mr Katsigiannis has given me an interesting opinion, perhaps we should make a useful contribution to the 'CISS S.A.' so that we can also have the possibility of cofinancing. If one takes away funding and how we achieve it, for all the rest, we will overcome all bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u21	Mr Katsigiannis' proposal is really interesting and I think it can help us to get rid of bureaucracy. I will not deal with it politically, because in addition to the policy of warming, which is always there, I will not say or accept that the governing party - as expressed by Mr Panoussis - cannot have any successes in effective everyday work, and we do not need to be modest and miserable all the time in our lives. In fact, recent messages have been positive on the part of policing and the functioning and fight against crime in the Municipality of Menidi. Mr President, when we talk about Minidi, we are talking about a hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants, a huge area which really works in western Athens, in the region of Athens, as a crusader and a place to reconstruct invasion and crime in connection with drugs. They have left the drugs from the center of Athens, from Exarchia, etc., they have moved everything to the region. Unfortunately, the world that lives there has been a terrible pressure over the years. I will accept and validate myself in my own position that the latest police measures really give a sense of security to the world, but the issue of the police department needs to be resolved. I accept this solution if we say that this solution offers the change of use, the Greek Police take it and finances through a process of its own with the Ministry of Finance the reconstruction of the building, because the building is a ruin now, it has been abandoned, it has been dissolved, it has been looted. There now, with a reference centre, I believe that a much more serious policy can be drawn up in relation to the wider region of Australia. Everyone who knows the area understands what I'm saying. I do not want to show up here and discuss racist theories or theories that divide the world and operate disorientately. There's criminality, it's a given thing anyway. I'm not gonna sit around and put the scale on who's contributing to crime more or less. But the police department there may actually contribute to a sense of security for the population, because I tell you that this request is signed by three thousand people who live in the area. It is a request now that everyone is given that it should be supported. I have listened positively to the President-in-Office's speech today. I hope and believe in the next period that this effort will be successful, because in fact, Minister, I am not asking a second question. I'm done. That's as far as it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u23	I promised the Menidian society that in October we would go back to see exactly what he walked, because you have to assess, not just announcing. I am not only talking about crime, I am not only talking about the flexible patrols we have implemented or about how you are going to block public transport, so thousands go from there to get the dose, I am talking about noise pollution too. We'll look at changing the quality of life. It's not just crime. It's you can sleep at night, you can read, you can walk. So we will also take initiatives there for a legislative change in relation to noise pollution. I agree with you on Auliza. It's not just symbolic, it's functional. It's not only functional, it's effective. It'll change the form of the area. It will illuminate the area, which is very useful, precisely because it operates preventively and dissuasively and not repressively. So there will be no need for a second, twenty-third question. We'll get through it all, and I want to hope that in October we'll talk on other terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the second, with number 428/14-7-2015, is a topical question for the President of Heraklion, Potamios Spyridon Dannelis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the problems of maritime transport from Heraklion to the region of the Aegean Sea, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. The third, with number 413/7-2015, topical question for the second cycle of MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Kanellepoulou, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the reintroduction of the law on the single price of the book, will not be discussed due to a failure by the Minister. The fourth under number 419/7-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the completion of the work of the Heraklion - Mesara road network will not be discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The fifth under number 412/7-2015 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the saturated tourist areas and inequality in development will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. The seventh question, under number 411/6-2015, will be discussed in the context of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the interventions for the renewal of the Area of Mars. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Ioannis Panousis. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. When I went to London one time, Minister, it was a great pleasure to get away from the city and go to a park. And since we often stayed close to Hyd Park, it was a great pleasure and great pleasure to go to this park like this spontaneously, because we kind of felt better. So when we went to Amsterdam at one time, Fogelpark, a huge park, made us feel more human, nature, etc. I am a Member of Parliament who is indifferent to having a CV with a 'industrial' question, and it is the last thing I care about. I also want to tell you that the area of Aryos belongs to the first of Athens and I am in the second of Athens. I say this because I believe that the Aryan Field does not concern a small minority of residents, ten to fifteen thousand, but it concerns almost all of them, hives, Gyzis, Polygonos, all of Patisias, and under the Patrizis, Exarchias. I mean, we're talking about an area of about five hundred thousand people. We know that there is a large park, the National Garden, near here, next to the House and the second that exists is the Area of Mars. No one would have expected, therefore, because we are not Copenhagen and we have no two-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, and at least the largest-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, the largest-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, the-three-three-three-three-three, because I-the-the-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, the-three... Instead, today we are seeing an incredible spectacle, where without any excesses, this park is a man - a normal man - for what goes through your mind, except for what it should be. I was glad to see a woman and her baby at three o'clock at night going to Fogelpark in Amsterdam - and she had made me a terrible impression - with great security. Same in Hyde Park. This is incomprehensible, it's a joke, there's no way it's going to happen in the Mars Field. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like a little more time, Mr President, because I think it is worth it. I can tell you again that this question is unselfish. Once, I remember, I saw Manos Katraki in the little theatre - for those who know - near Alexandra, the theatre of Economy and the "Greenpark" underneath. He was leaking out of life. We all had an extremely positive memory of this park. Minister, if I may come to my point, you can bother and go for a walk, any time you want, even at noon. I'm not saying you should go at seven or eight o'clock at nine o'clock because it's dangerous to go there. I'm not talking about deep hours, because the park closes at about eleven and reopens at six and no one controls anyone. The residents around have a club, which has five thousand people. They've sent three hundred out-of-courts and nobody listens to them. When I say no one, I mean no one. He is the club ‘Athena’. I'm telling you my own personal experience, because I live nearby, in Hive. It's impossible for me to go after nine to ten at night. It's dangerous. Nobody's going. There's no lighting. There's no cleanliness. There's no guard. You will meet dependent people - with a lot of sympathy I say - you will meet not just economic migrants - who also have a lot of sympathy - but you will also meet child prostitution from economic migrants who are blossoming in this area. And now, recently - with a lot of sympathy, I say this - tents have been set up, about thirty, but let us say that this is temporary, because they are the refugees who have come from Syria or somewhere else. The sure thing is that this park, which could have been a little bit of money - and I tell you that I will come back not once, but a hundred times - is not about ten or twenty thousand people. It's about five hundred thousand people. There's nothing else there. We all want to go for a walk in the morning or at noon or sometime in this park and we can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Comrade, the rest, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u27	There's a complete abandonment, Minister, and I want you to see it warmly. It belongs to the Region. The Region does not have the capacity to clean it up. It has some employees - it is not the people's fault and I have nothing with them, I know them personally one - but they can't do anything. The policing, which concerns you in particular, has improved recently, I must confess. The police boys, however, what to do on their own. I mean, they're coming, they're supervising, they're doing something. There's been two or three murders there. You know why they've been written in the papers. There have been attempts to kill. We are saying that at the moment a place that is unique and could be a centre of culture - what you want - has become the center of the hell. And it's enclosed for the surrounding residents. I'll say a few things in my denture, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u28	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Panousis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u29	I will respond to your first thoughts, and then we will discuss both our management and the numbers. It is indeed a deserving space, but at the same time it is also a challenge to safeguard children's memories. That's where we walked, we played, we fell in love. The question of what happened right in the center of Athens with the first mass influx of immigrants in the 1990s is something that Greek society is not yet discussing with honesty. My father's home is in America Square, so I've lived this area in good days. How, i.e. the square of America, Victoria Square, Saint Panteleimon, Patisia, in general, changed form and why they changed there and not elsewhere, is an interesting subject. Equally interesting is the question of whether the Field of Mars beyond us and our memories is a challenge for all of Athens. So, are the Athenians, in general, interested in the Marios Field or is it a place where the problems of Athens are stacked so that they do not stack elsewhere? However, I would like to tell you that beyond the specific operational programme for the centre of Athens - including the Area of Mars - a special agreement has been reached with the Region to see exactly the Mars area and what we are going to do with the Attica Region. It's not just about patrols and pedestrian patrols and everything I'm going to tell you or how to develop the neighborhood police officer or local councils there. Hive we've put her in special police stations - it's a new action - with a psychologist, a social worker, a criminologist inside the police department. At the same time, we are also studying the issue of prostitution - which is the worst form of degeneration in this region - and, of course, the use of drugs. So, we are not dealing with a police problem, because the Region itself at its last meeting said that it was very pleased with police assistance, closing doors 23.00 with 06.00, and with pedestrian patrols and motors perimeter. I mean, there's security. But the problem isn't storage at night. The problem is functionality and beauty in the day. These things want a great vendal action - as you said - from cleanliness and lighting to embrace not an area, but a city. Because I fear that, even if we manage to do some things in the area of Mars, the way the wider area of the Athens Centre operates in general, may negatively affect this reorganization of the area. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u30	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. First of all, I appreciate your face, if you don't know it, I tell you directly. And she's not hypocritical. She's very honest. I know we're going through hot water right now. Tomorrow, we have two votes tomorrow and it may seem a little bit sidelined, but we also have to deal with everyday life. This park belongs administratively to the Region. The region is not capable of fulfilling the obligations of this park. The proposals are as follows. First of all, the Municipality of Athens believes that it has the potential to better maintain this park at all levels. I don't want to say any details. Also, it plays a decisive role that both of the parks I mentioned both Hyd Park and Fogelpark have no low vegetation at all. The low vegetation works, unfortunately, as a filter for illegality. It is something we should see drastically. It will have to be quickly - that is, yesterday - that the park's guardianship should be assigned - does not cost anything - to specific individuals to be able to call the police, which I really say is that it has recently shown its presence and I have to admit that. But it's not enough. I am of the opinion that with both buildings when they are finished - and the economides we see spread out of clothes and the Green Park, which is the same - with both kiosks and the other places, the one who takes the park, that is, the municipality, will not have any economic problem. It's one of these, Minister, we'll have to see quickly. I would be pleased if Mr. Voutsis were also here, because it is not entirely your exclusive responsibility, but also the Ministry of Interior. I'm telling you it's a burning matter. You said it yourself. It's not enough theory from now on, we have to do it. I'm telling you, I have out-of-court residents, over fifteen thousand signatures. I have them here, and I'll leave them. It is a restricted zone for local residents now this park, and it must be realised that it must be a priority. Also, I'm telling you that the little park behind the courts is abandoned. This doesn't have low vegetation, of course, and I don't have any similar topics like the lower park. And the hill of Finopoulou once leaped from life, with a nice stone tavern. Many of you will have gone. All this, I believe, in a package can be under a certain service yesterday! We don't have many lungs in Athens, and we all know that. It can be - I say it and I mean it - a centre of culture, it can be so full of life, as it used to be. I'd seen Mano Katraki. I was a kid, and I remember I was insane, I thought I was in a paradise. Even at the Economy House, where the ladies went with their coats, to the "Green Park" of Homer Athenian. That's how it has to be seen - and even loudly - your ministry for the good - you are right, not just a few thousand, you have put it right, it's all over Athens - of the five hundred thousand that we're around here and we really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u32	Minister, excuse me, but can you include in your answer and something I would like to ask? About ten years ago we had made a program with you in the then prefecture of Athens - Piraeus with proposals for the remodeling of the Area of Mars. Of course, it does not concern your current responsibilities, mainly the preservation of the Mars Field, but it had been followed by a multi-stage renewal program. Can you include - if you remember - in your answer what has happened this effort to regenerate the Mars Field? Has he moved on? Has he stopped? I remember your own efforts about ten years ago, as co-applicants for the prefecture of prefecture, then, for the Area of Mars. Mr. Papachristopoulos, I was preparing for the next 24 hours to present a timely question on the Mars Field. Thank you for catching me up with your excellent question and your excellent initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u33	I thank you for the way you raise this issue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u34	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u35	It is true that at some point the Mars Field gained a political interest in the then overseer. And there were many views that would be saved and what had to be done. Indeed, at that time some different internal arrangements were made in the space with certain trees, I think, or statues. But then it was released again, because it was purely formidable, that is, it was legalising an institution of supranationalism, and that was all. I think, however, that the concept of defenceable space, namely, what exactly a citizen defends, that he defends it and what the state and local authorities do at the same time, is a matter which also relates to my scientific formation. What I would say: first, light, more light. Second, light in the entire area around the Mars Field. You saw that even Omonia now that the tables, which become renovations of buildings, are starting to push black -- and as a black, I mean crime, fornication - elsewhere. Not that he's going to disappear. Thirdly, actions, more actions that mean people, more people. They don't need magical recipes. Apparently, there'll be security and all that. But, in order to get people out behind the bushes, let me say it, or the people with dark motives circulate there, you need to "replace" them with other people, with other actions - that is, have reason to go - and with a sense of security not at night but all day. That's a bet. We will try to win this with the region. I'll see - on the part that's my responsibility - the residents and the demands of the region. I repeat, however, that it is a bet that has ecological, environmental, social, cultural and ultimately political interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the eighth Question No 395/29-6-2015 topical question by Mr Nicholas Kotzias on his visit to Skopje on 24-6-2015 will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and State. The ninth under number 391/29-6-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the work of the 'ERGOSE' Tunnel will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The tenth under number 401/30-6-2015 topical question of the New Democracy MP, Ioannis Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the creditors' requirements for cuts in expenditure in the Armed Forces, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The eleventh question will now be discussed under number 386/23-6-2015. Second question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning "measures to address the asymmetric threat due to the imperial invasion of illegal immigrants on the Greek islands". Mr Pappas' timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Panousis. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will not spend my time in the abrasions that are heard in here or in the civil courtesy that distinguishes you too, although the Left, but I will go straight to the point. I would say that this is not a question of child memories, which we have heard in the previous question by my colleague. Politics is not a reference to children's memories, but rather to the essence and to the observance of the Constitution. So we have a huge problem. The problem does not concern the area of Marios, which we have heard before, it concerns the entire country, it concerns the entire Greek people. We have an invasion of illegal immigrants. Please, listen to it again, illegal immigrants! I repeat, because there is a tactic for everyone to throw the ball in the platform and hide behind your finger the substance of the matter, insisting on a position on the word 'lathromian'. See, then, since you are an excellent acquaintance of the Greek language, in the last dictionary of the professor, Mr. Babiniotis. In the derivatives of the word 'broken', 'broken' also has the word 'broken immigrant'. Let's also blame Mr. Babiniotis as a fascist. Well. Sloppy invasion of illegal immigrants. Their number is huge. In the last 20 days alone - I will read the numbers - from 29 June to 12 July, we had about twenty-eight thousand illegal immigrants on the archipelago islands. We therefore have the illegal immigrants who, as everyone watches, the entire Greek people, leave nothing standing, literally nothing standing. We have uprisings and even the chapels, iconostasis, made by the Greek people in the countryside - it is a habit from antiquity - it breaks them down. They leave nothing standing, there are thefts, petty thieves, riots. Things take a really bad turn. If, together with the problem of the memorial, impoverishment, that is, of hunger, at the same time with the problem of fertility, but also with the threat that we have seen for many years - and today is a symbolic day, we are honouring the fallen of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, the crime of Cyprus, of 1974 - we have a terrible, but terrible, pitiful future for our country and the Greek people. Why did you come here today after many postponements? You're here to fall in love. What are the measures you intend to take to deal with this steep situation, which has been formed on the islands mainly of the archipelago and not just of the archipelago? What measures will you take for the unlawful acts of the illegal invaders who offend not only the religious feeling of the Greeks but also the very concept of culture I would say? You also ask: Are you satisfied with the work of the Police to date, in which you are political leadership? Will you say again that you have staff shortages? We know that, but the responsibility position says 'with what I have what I can do'. In addition, given - I will say - the inadequate staffing of police forces, is there the political will of your colleagues, such as the Deputy Minister for Migration Policy, when you said that the imperial invasion of immigrants is worse than the Memorandum? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, it is not responsible, as it should be - at least for us, the Greek nationalists on the Golden Dawn - the Greek Army for Border Guarding and has come to the hands of the Police, the Ministry of Interior. Anyway, we have this ugly thing for us, but do you have the will in this asymmetrical threat of getting the help of the Department of National Defense? Because it's known that the police don't have any staff, it doesn't have the resources, and I don't know what plans or will. You'll develop them within a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u39	I shall reply to you on the other hand, i.e. I shall begin with the figures and in the dentistry I will give you my views. On June 22nd to 27th 2015, a thousand forty-four vehicles were checked at the Lesvos Police Directorate and a thousand two hundred and twenty-nine people. Seventy - four were prayed. Two people were arrested for drug violation and fake papers. One hundred and twenty - four violations, of health interest, drugs, counterfeit documents, etc. He confiscated one and a half grams of cannabis. From 1-1 2015 to 30-6 2015, three hundred and fifty two workshops were carried out, order, safety, traffic, foreign control, drug prosecution. Ten thousand eighty-five vehicles and twelve thousand nine hundred twenty-five people were checked. I mean, that the police are there, and I'll tell you about the numbers. Also supported were the Directorates of Police of Samos, Chios, Lesvos, Dodecanese I’ and 2’ with forty - six policemen of various degrees to deal with irregular immigration, and with the coverage of seasonal service needs during this year’s tourist season, the addresses were further strengthened by a hundred and ninety - one persons. In particular, the Lesvos Police Department was strengthened with a hundred nine people, sixty-one for irregular immigration and flow management and forty-eight for the country's police. The police aren't missing. The Port and Coast Guard aren't missing. And we are present, Mr Papoutsis. I remind you we've turned all the islands. We talked to the police, the fire department, the port, the mayors, the district managers, just to show the state's interest in a problem that outweighs us. I'd like to know the magical solution. And Mr. Dritsas and Mrs. Christodoulopoulos and Mr. Voutsi and I, all of us who are involved due to responsibilities in this story, are "spread" our heads to find a solution. Solution, I imagine, within the rule of law, within culture, within humanity, within our European commitments. But when we have, as you rightly say, this storm, there would be a thousand or three thousand every day, no matter what you do and a wealthy country to be, not poor and in crisis, you would have been overrun. And we're over. But neither can we throw them into the sea nor live like animals. That wouldn't help anything. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will return to the issues you have raised, very serious issues of national security and social cohesion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you are a serious man and I am sorry that you are forced to tell me in your answer about the problem of illegal immigrants and to tell me if an illegal immigrants were arrested with two and a half grams of cannabis. I do not accept that answer. You told me you were turning the islands, you and other officials. And illegal immigrants turn the islands. You asked me for magic prescriptions. I am not the government, you have the political responsibility of the government. But I'll give you the magic recipe. Instead of building streets in Mr. Kammenos's countryside, the army could guard the border, which is, if you like, his mission. We want a Greek Army at the border. You're the ones who talked about children's memories. So I remind you of your own childhood memories. In your years the Army guarded the Greek border. It was the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence. It is also Dublin II. Does it mean anything to you? What do you intend to do? You said election announcements, generalities. Will you do something? What you're telling us as measures is for young children. You say that the Czech Republic will get by 2017 a thousand six hundred illegal immigrants from Greece and solve the problem. The numbers are terrible, they're dizzy. I told you that during the 20th day, from 23 June to 12 July, twenty-eight thousand two hundred sixty illegal immigrants entered. In other words, in order for the Greek people to understand, a city of illegal immigrants has entered as long as Tripoli and that is why the Greek people have not been asked a referendum. Make a referendum on the Greek people. They want foreigners in Greece? Why, Mr. Minister, Tunisia, Algiers or Pakistan? We were Greek. We finally want our peace and freedom. If we are to pay for the European commitments, to be what you see, we do not want these European commitments. Let us'shoot' this Europe! And can I tell you something else? I will give you an answer from an interview from a minister who has been asked about the blow that tourism is taking. Because something that we have been left last on your own confession in Greece - because there is nothing left standing with the memorials and the right and the left - is tourism, which is affected not only by VAT and the new memorandum, but also by illegal immigration. So the Minister was asked about the image of the hungry and impoverished immigrants on the Greek islands and gave this amazing answer. The tourist knows where he's coming. Besides, tourists go where there are strange. They go to India, where the kids die on the street. I've never seen the tourist current off. They go to Egypt, where people sleep in cemeteries. So, what does Syros do to the guy who goes to bathe? Is this Greece you want? Did you give this hope to the Greek people and you became government and to the party with which you cooperate, do you have the responsibility of governing this country? We appeal to reason, Minister. Last news. Arrested a jihadist today. You know that. Two years ago, when we said this problem of Islamists in Greece in committee, your people stood up and said 'fascists, what things'. Now you confess yourself, you see the problem. What are you gonna do? Is there a political will? We do not want fine words, we do not want 'will' and 'will' and 'will', we want action, we want projects. We want you to protect the country. The Greek people must live. And the Greek people will live. Governments are coming and going, the people are staying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u42	The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u43	Your Honor, you have to accept that we live in another world. We didn't make him, we don't agree, but we live in another world. I wish we could solve all this by voluntarily or ideologically! On the one hand, there is a need for greater transparency in the budget and, on the other, for greater transparency in the budget. We have globalisation and we have a Europe for the fortress. So we have a Europe that does not accept putting the barrier within Turkey, because that is where it must stop. When he reaches your border and enters, from there on, the game enters the level of civilization and humanism. It's about not getting there. And you know, I, despite the many objections and objections from friends, said that Evros' fence wouldn't fall because I've lived nineteen years in Thrace, and I know and I think no one is currently thinking about it. The fact that the influx has moved to the islands is due to events that no one predicted. Who would have predicted that Syria would be destroyed as a country, that we will have what we have in Libya, even though it does not concern us directly? So we are dealing with an international policy, which is where they will stop, how they will not cause these waves, destroying countries, peoples and cultures and, in any case, if that happens, where they will stop. At the moment, on the coast of Turkey, as you know, there are two and a half million Syrians who want to enter and go to Europe. I hope, not through Greece. We have border guards both with FRONTEX and the Port. It's not like everything's clear. But you know how our islands are. They leave them in Agathonisi, they turn on a fire to find them, and the fire makes a fire. You know a little how the system works. I was the first to say about Dublin II and Schengen - and there were misunderstandings at the time - that it is not possible. And for a country with many problems, in crisis, having the ability to make alliances in the European Union and to overthrow or - in any case - to improve European conventions is not an easy thing. Even now, with the resettlement - relocation, not even forty thousand get. And that is what they are talking about, that is to say, taking sixteen thousand of the people present. It's unsolved, in my opinion. And it is the UN's problem from one point to the next, it is not even Europe's. Here we have a humanitarian crisis that goes from everywhere, alters social repercussions and creates problems of national security. Although most of them are jihadists, they come as European citizens, they don't have to come from there. But there too, you can find from slave trades to anything else. I wish this House could at some point - I am not a Member of Parliament - seriously discuss how steep a bomb on many issues is immigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an honour to make a statement to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its report to the Prosecutor's request for authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two motions for absence leave. The first is Mr Georgios Koumouchakou. "To the President of the Greek Parliament, Zoe Konstantopoulou. Madam President, in this letter, I request that I be granted an absence permit from abroad from 20 July 2015 to 21 July 2015 for family reasons.’ Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u45	The House approved the requested permission. The following request is from the Member State, Mr Antonopoulou Urania, and is as follows: "Mrs. President, please, as you approve a few days' leave from 16 July 2015 to 18 July 2015 as I will be absent in London for personal reasons." Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u46	The House approved the requested permission. The third time question for the first cycle under number 424/13-07-2015 of the MP from Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the need for an immediate solution to the problems of intra-cyclical routes during a tourist season. Mr. Amyras' timely question will be answered by Deputy Minister Theodores Dritsas. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to give a little parentheses. I could give you an update on the Marios Field and what happened, because we handled it in the Municipality of Athens when I was a municipal councillor in 2010-2014. That study was approved, proceeded and ten million were given...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u48	I say you keep your time for your question and we see the other thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u49	Sure. Minister, the timely question I raise is about the intra-cyclical routes of ships, namely those of ships that meet the internal needs of the Cyclades. Unfortunately, this year these islands have remained uncovered in terms of their ability to connect internally without interfering with the great port of Piraeus, covering needs in their feed, in food, in medicines, in products, in the movement of tourists, of course, but also in the local ones, at a time when the Cyclades are plundering financially and tourists. Unfortunately, therefore, they have sounded and cannot be served through the intra-cyclical routes. Why? Because NEL, the Lesvos Shipping Company, who had undertaken to connect Syros, Paros, Naxos, Io, Sicily, Kimolo, Milos, and returned to the other two parties, connected Tino, Andros, Serifos, Kythnos, Sifnos and Gia. Minister, I would like to ask you the following question about the great cost of a Serifos islander, for example, to reach Syros, the capital of Cyclades where the Management Centre is and should have taken out some papers or possibly have a court. The ticket to go and come from Serifos to Syros made 5 euros. Now he has to go to Piraeus, spend the next day taking the boat to Syros. The cost, like Mr Antonis Antonakis, mayor Serifos mentioned and calculated, is 100 euros. So, what development of the Cyclades are we going to talk about - and, in general, of our tourism industry - when boats cannot be supported? I would therefore ask you, Mr Minister, to give us your information on where the question of linking the Cyclades internally is today, with their timetables. What are you going to do with what timetable, so that we can deal with and overcome this problem of not covering the intra-cyclical routes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u51	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question, although you too have been afflicted. It has been postponed and in many parts of it it is declining. I'm not wrong with you. That's right. There is a reference to your question and I would first like to say that "the appeals, the suggestions and the memorials of the local authorities and bodies of the Cycladic complex have fallen into the void and have not been able to respond from the relevant Minister Dritsa and have so far continued the hostage and suffering of the passengers". I would like to clarify and confirm that communication with the representatives of the societies of the Cyclades was and is permanent with both mayors and with the representatives of the producer organisations. In fact, through this cooperation, there is communication with me and with the services of the Ministry - and they know well what the dimensions of the problem are. Look, we need to know that in these systems - we have found them - the subsidized ferry connections exist. And the conventions generally have rules. In particular, the contracts on the coastline have even more favourable rules for shipowners. It is not easy to abolish a contract, even if the shipowner undertaking to operate the services is not consistent with his contractual obligations. There are too many issues here, such as the invoicing of the immobilisation due to damage, which was found every time by the competent authorities. Each time something was there as a progress. Every time there was a document on the imminent completion of the rehabilitation work, which could not be overtaken by anyone. In this time we took care and there was a ship, "ARTEMIS", which replaced "AQUA JEWEL", which was not in circulation due to damage. So in the winter months we had a cover at least half and at longer intervals, and the other line operated with the "AQUA SPIRIT" with holidays and problems, indeed with various gaps, but the possibility of promoting discount procedures to find new - and not always easy and is now proven - is not a simple story. Every day from morning to night, we were interested in planning and in contact with local communities, and we had results, not always ideal, but in any case we had some. At the moment, however, the lines "Syros - Kythnos - Kea - Lavrio", "Syros - Paros - Naxos - Ios - Sikinos - Folegandros - Kimolos - Milos" operate the first by two routes a week and the second by one. The line "Syros - Paros - Serifos - Sifnos - Kimolos - Milos" operates on three routes a week. And the line "Syros - Tinos - Andros" and return is performed by "ARTEMIS". What is not actually being implemented is the second intra-cyclical connection. And there the company finally fell, as all the margins were exhausted and there was no other solution. It was our obligation to proceed with the company's discount. Nevertheless, even now that almost a month has passed, no interest has arisen in taking a subsidised line - not just free, but subsidised - and still open. We won't stop. We keep trying. And the second intra-cyclical line must work. In any case, we are ahead of ourselves for the next period of a redesign phase for the coastlines. But this will be the period 2016-2017, because in 2015-2016 it was already set when we took over the government. Today, however, Syros, Paros, Naxos - because there you focused your question - are connected with one route every Friday and return on Saturday. All the islands are connected. But because you're asking me to connect Syros to Paros and Naxos, I'm answering you on this. It connects Syros to Paros every Tuesday and Sunday, another twice. All three islands, as well as many others, are linked three times a week - in addition to what I have told you - to a free line from BLUE STAR FERRIES.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for the initial answer. It is an opportunity, I think, to unfold your thoughts and the design that you have said about how we will deal with from time to time in the new tourist season, summer season, the great, this kind of need for communication of the islands, of course in winter. It's - I'd say - paradoxical to be in Anafis, to see Santorini - you think you'll touch it - and to reach Anafis in Santorini you have to wait for the line ship that comes twice a week, say, especially in winter. So I personally do not expect - in five months' time - that you do what has not been done in five decades. Not a conversation. It is a bucket involved, where local interests and superlocal and each other enter. But give your mark: How will you redesign these kinds of routes that are so needed, not only the Cyclades, but also the Dodecanese? But speaking of Cyclades, let's stay on them. Is there a space in this design and can take part in public partnership with private individuals? Electionally, your party had even spoken of the establishment of a coastline of public interest. Is that true? Has something changed? Is there your interest in the establishment of such a ferry company? Finally, Mr Minister, I would tell you that I know that the institutional framework is indeed involved and difficult. We have subsidised lines where no private investors come, because they don't care. However, this wealth, this added value of our islands, how will it become, if we cut them off the way of communication, not deliberately, but on the basis of the circumstances and because of the great bureaucracy or the difficulty of the abundance of the regulations and the question of coexistence - whichever government - not a solution? So, Mr Minister, give us a signal on how you think in the medium term about dealing with this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, that's right. It also needs a stigma and a plan and a response to all of this bucket. The first point I can give you is that my view - but it is not a question of what my view is, I think it is absolutely admissible - is that the crucial issue of an adequate maritime connection and service of the islands is the stability of the routes and not always the quantity. There always needs every day to be a route for all the islands, if possible. Most importantly, however, there must be a whole year's journey and, since winter, we must also know about summer, and we must also provide for local communities and businessmen and hotels and everyone else. There's gotta be traffic stability, no matter what it is at all. And whether it's more or less, that's what's important too. We haven't talked in the first step about a public shipping company. We have spoken of a public body for maritime transport in almost all the countries of Europe. We have talked about the design of the lines and the promotion and encouragement of initiatives by local communities, chambers, municipalities, self-government and partnerships that will shape with the negative and positive experience of the previous decades in terms of public base companies and various other things that have collapsed. Badly, they collapsed, but we need to know why they collapsed and what we can use from their positive to reform and reorganise the coastal system. With this legislation, you know, there's no design anymore. Previously, there was the minimum public planning of the Ministry of Shipping on the main lines, which should be ensured. The system is now based on who wants to launch and where as a free line it proposes and comes the shipowner or the businessman. Then on a line of exclusion no one comes, that is, on a line that has all the protection and the privilege of having a line exclusively, which no one can enter competitively. And yet they do not come because, after the freedom of movement, which companies have evaluated as having commercial interest, we are going directly to the subsidised, where now neither the possibilities are too great to increase the amount of subsidies nor should we. Otherwise we have to design them. I conclude with the following: it would be a wishful task, although there are objections there, but not so much from the local communities, to have basic lines - torso and insular links, but well organized and with a direct response - not to reach the ship at ten o'clock in the morning and the response to be at 11 o'clock at night! You realize that these things require everyone's involvement. What we have announced is that, from autumn onwards, the dialogue will begin to be ready for the next period, which is in 2016-2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Minister. We enter the debate of the first under number 426/14-7-2015 topical question by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr. South Mitarakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the need to strengthen the competitiveness of the coastline in the sensitive area of the eastern Aegean. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Theodores Dritsas. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u57	Dear Minister, you are aware of the difficult position in which our fishermen are in the sensitive national region of the eastern Aegean, especially those taking international routes to the neighbouring country. Many of them are now forced to suspend the operation of routes. It is an unpleasant development that subsides the Greek flag in such a vital area. It is a development that has the beginning of the competitiveness deficit of our side and the corresponding advantages that the Turkish seafarers have in their own regulatory and regulatory framework. So there's an asymmetry of circumstances. Advantages that emanate from either crew compositions tailored to one trip several times or twenty minutes, or the existence of synergies and the provision of combined services, as our competitors Turkish coasters exploit business and the opposite of our islands privatised ports. As a result of these developments, Greek shipowners of Lesbos, Chios, Samos, Kos and Rhodes either had to withdraw their ships either "submit" to Turks through unfavourable consortia or simply converted into maritime agents. There are those, such as the shipowner Mr. Spanis who wrote you by "DODEKANISOS SEAWAYS", who, not wanting to do anything of the above, simply closed his business. Since I asked you the question so far, there has also been an additional issue of increasing VAT to 23% for seafarers. This negatively affects the competitiveness of the Greek coastline. I am aware of your interest and would like to ask you what action you intend to take in order to ensure the competitiveness of the Greek coastline with regard to the competition that we have from the asymmetric conditions of the shipowners from the neighbouring country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u59	Mr Colleague, for the increase in VAT I will not answer you. I hope that there will be arrangements and face up to the path that they will shape in this area as well. I can't give you any answers to that right now. Thank you for the question, not formal. It's really crucial. Obviously, you referred to this. You have as basic material the letter of the Dodecanese Society, which has become widely known and is the subject of your question. In fact, the question that this letter raises is reflected in your question. I would like to make an initial comment. Your question is fine and very well formulated. But you are talking about an unpleasant development. Yes, it is an unpleasant development, all that you have said and mentioned. But since when? I have been informed - I have had a knowledge of this, but I have been informed by reputable officials of the Ministry and the Port Authority and of the civil servants with experience of many years and high-ranking officials - that this debate and this problem have begun in the Ministry since the Minister for Maritime Affairs was Mr Vulgarakis. Make a count of how many ministers have been through since! To put things in order, however, in 2001 a bilateral shipping agreement, which entered into force on 19 August 2001 and became a state-owned law, was indeed signed, n. 2900 with FEK 75A-124-2001. It was a bilateral agreement between Greece and Turkey. In this context, the Contracting States have agreed to develop relations in the maritime sector based on the principles of free and fair competition, freedom of navigation and to apply the principle of non-discrimination to international shipping operations by vessels flying the flag of either Party in the territory of the other Party. In addition, they agreed to ensure unobstructed access of their ships to maritime transport of goods and passengers between ports and to refrain from measures which may impede the participation of the ships of the parties in maritime trade, between the ports of the two States. This agreement was right and had reciprocity and equivalence, but at a very general level. It did not bind both parties from there and beyond to their own legislation on critical issues, such as crew composition, taxation, customs provisions and so on. These are the responsibilities of each state. The Greek State is bound by the 2006 International Maritime Labour Convention, MLC 2006, which became the law of the State with the n. 4078 who ratified this contract since 2012. There are minimum standards for the whole world. Then there are the collective agreements. And the Pan-Hellenic Naval Federation and everyone on this issue have too much sensitivity not to proceed with other reductions - because they have happened - to crews on ships, at a time when the naval profession has so much unemployment. It's a matter of that. The other issue is the possibility of tax exemptions. You understand that this is another matter too. The third issue, which is the indirect effect here, is the electronic ticket, but this is mainly about internals. So what's going on now? Indeed, the Turkish state has neither signed the international convention nor is bound by the Greek state's commitments nor has the level of rights gained by Greek workers. In this situation, then, or this agreement must be re-examined and even increased parity, which will be set by both parties - and this must involve the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and many others - or we must change our own legislation, allow reduced compositions in crews, move to tax exemptions, move to various things. In any case, because the result is negative for Greek shipowners operating in the area and having greater and wider implications - and I agree with you that it is not good for Greek vessels to come out of the local market with Greek flags and only ships from the Turkish side, the Turkish state - to be activated. But the regulations are of these kinds and they have not been dealt with over the years I have described you. Your question puts what it says. The letter from the twelfth company goes further, which is of another order, but on the issues of your question I think one of the two should do. Both want a lot of attention. It's not that simple stuff. They are linked to issues that have other implications, if any, if any. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] It is, therefore, right to seek ways of strengthening Greek entrepreneurship in this sector, but it is not fair to go ahead with circumvention of workers' rights, which - I am ending with this, Mr President - is not just a matter of work, it is also a matter of security. The Greek legislation defines the composition of the crew, based on the type of machine, the length of the ship and many other elements, which correspond to safe navigation. It doesn't matter that it's a twenty-minute ride. Evil can be done in half a second. These are, therefore, sensitive issues too. That's how I think it's going to be. The Greek people and Parliament think that they are well informed about this. Solutions are sought and studied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I fully agree with the concerns you have raised. It is indeed a difficult issue and requires difficult decisions, which must at some point be resolved. Indeed, the problem is not new. The problems in the governance of the site are never new, but at some point we reach border points. In the present case, we now see the Greek flag being suppressed, stopped operating these ships and the unemployment of Greek seafarers increased. It is a big issue of the competitiveness of the Greek coastline. You see the companies have accumulated debts. This means that there is a major problem of survival in general, which if you do not survive - unless you go to what you were saying before, in a state-owned company, which is very difficult to see how this can be financed and also rewarded for the Greek taxpayer's money - the Greek islands are at risk, but the international ships do not have Greek flag ships, so that seafarers do not have jobs, because there are no workers without employers. I think the next time, Minister, will also begin the debate on Greek shipping in general, on the issue of the competitiveness of Greek shipping, and on whether the country will continue to be a safe port for Greek shipowners, who create hundreds of thousands of jobs here on land, apart from the positions at sea, as well as the changes in business taxation already lead businesses abroad. Countries such as Germany are very competitive with the tax regime offered by Greek shipping companies. Countries such as Cyprus, Malta, the United Kingdom, countries within Europe are trying to find the opportunity to get back Greek shipping companies that came to Greece perhaps in the past decade. The capital restrictions observed in the Greek banks - I will not go into the general debate because of this - created a huge problem in Greek shipping, as well as in a more general climate of political credibility, whether the political system in general is in general and the government wants these businesses to remain here. These are issues that we need to see immediately before these Greek companies leave the country. There is therefore a more general issue of competitiveness in shipping and commercial shipping. It's a big challenge. There are difficult decisions which, as you quite rightly said, Mr Minister, need to be made. But if all these jobs are lost from our place, the damage will be great and irreversible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, we've gone somewhere now. The issue we discussed before has not been so narrow on the subject of shipping ponds. The Greek flag and the Greek-owned shipping Potato still has strength and is strong in terms of competitiveness. However, the unemployment of seafarers is increasing and there is the problem. The seaport is based on the Greek flag. I do not think we should go along with how you approached the issue. The Greek flag is a comparative advantage for Greek shipowners and provides prestige, reliability and functionality to international organisations, through which logistics, shipowners, shipping have many benefits, indirectly, but very importantly. Don't underestimate the Greek flag. The Greek state strongly supports the Greek flag, beyond the benefits, tax exemptions, one another. And Cyprus makes choices, and Malta etc. We're watching everything. The main issue is that Greece should stay a maritime country, because if it does not have added value internally, we may be proud that we are the first force in the world, but what should you do if we do not have Greek seafarers? And I'm ending up with this. The German experiment collapsed with benefits and many motives. They didn't come out. Now they sell in auctions German ships literally fattened. I'm not exaggerating. And that's because it's not enough to be a strong country and have a plan. You're from a naval village, from a naval island with a huge tradition, Chios. Tradition is capital. It's a prerequisite for further course. They are invaluable capital, which incorporates know-how, history, specialisation, flexibility, too many things. That is why Germany has failed, at least so far and is in the process of auctioning hundreds of German ships. So we cannot rely on this incentive of the type 'give benefits, give tax exemptions, etc.'. Greece must remain a maritime country, so that the Greek flag in shipping is also strong. That means social dividends. Only then will Greek shipping remain strong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the twelfth question raised by Mr Athanasios Petrakos, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the progress of important infrastructure projects in Messinia, such as the 'Kalomata - Tsakou' projects and the Perimeter of Kalamata 'Kalamata - Rizzomylos', will not be discussed because of the Minister's impediment. The tenth third, with number 356/16-6-2015, topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, regarding the compulsory invoice of discounts and other possible suppliers' benefits to the supermarkets, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The fourteenth under No. 219/14-5-2015 topical question of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the provocative action of Macedonians in Florina, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifteenth, under No. 234/18-5-2015, topical question of the Attica MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on bilateral relations with the neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The sixth, with number 168/28-4-2015, is a topical question of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the Skopje" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The first question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilia Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "Aydinlik" that "Turkey proceeded to a committee for the vindication of sixteen Greek islands", will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-20-S1-commons.u65	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.41 the sitting on Thursday 23 July 2015 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) a statement of petitions and b) a debate on topical and urgent questions.
