ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Democratisation of Administration - Combating Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that articles and amendments be discussed as one section, in accordance with Rules 101 and 103(3) of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I want to say something about writing in the Minutes. The vote was not taken by Mr Demetrius Konstantinos, SYRIZA MP, who votes positively for the bill. Of course, it cannot be counted in the minutes of the vote, but it is written in the Minutes of the House that it votes in favour. Secondly, I have consulted the Deputy Minister, Mr Katrugalo, and we have considered it appropriate, and it is right to give him the floor, to tell him what amendments he makes and the legislative improvements he has made. These will be photocopied and distributed during the debate, so that both the rapporteurs and the special speakers and colleagues who have been left this morning and those who will be enrolled in knowing what amendments to be put, because they have been accepted. I also want to tell you today, after consultation with the President, that tomorrow, as you know, it is the sports bill - I am missing the exact title - and there will certainly be two meetings in the morning and evening. If we end tomorrow evening - because at the Conference of Presidents we said that if necessary we will have a third meeting - and since all the parties agree that the deadline should be shortened, instead of the draft law on education on Fridays, it will come on Thursday so that we can liberate Friday for the regional colleagues who might be better able to leave from Friday morning or noon. I've been telling you this from today, so you can have it in your mind. Parliamentary representatives of the parties will be asked about what I said to you only if everyone agrees...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u2	Will it be completed in committee, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u3	It will be completed in committee. Just, Mr Mitsotakis, it will not be the formal deadline of the days from the committee here. That's why I said, just by unanimous decision, and because the oldest people know that it serves...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u4	We have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u5	All right, we'll talk about it tomorrow, after it's over in committee. Minister, I give you the floor for seven minutes - I think you are reached - to make all your suggestions, legislative amendments, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have had a substantial debate that has also highlighted the real differences, those which cannot be bridged, because they go back to political value differences that we have and those that we could see to improve the bill, because we can find a common basis. I will then tell you the legislative improvements that belong to this second category. A first comment on the basis of these principles, on which we cannot agree. I think that the essential thing has emerged, that, in fact, the stake is what state we want. State for whom, state with which characteristics. I think what we schematically called a Memorandum - an anti-immemorandum is now translated - because the memorandum was concentrated neoliberalism - in how we will be placed in the basic historical, anti-revolutionary, anti-reform force of the time, which is neoliberalism. The concept of normality, for example, of the New Democracy is quite different from the concept that we have. You have heard this party often say that we must become a normal country and that we must not have any deviation from the neoliberal agenda. In other words, we have to accept as a rule the reduced working security, the flexibility, the deterioration of social rights of the past. We see as normality the reconnection to certain basic principles and values of the common European legal culture, some of which should be common ground for all of us, such as the principles of the rule of law, such as the principles of the social state and others that most identify the Left, such as the equality programme, as the programme for the defence of the weak. That is why we consider it to be normal not to have a staff of personal services in the sense of retirement. All European countries have garbage and strikes. Why do they have no political backing? I think that's what you were alone in. Even the Potami that voted for the bill at the outset supported the need to overcome this archaic archaic method of dealing with a form of collective right exercise. Our value differences in matters, such as the fact that collective rights are not just a strike, have similarly been seen. And trade unionism is a regulated constitutional right. It is obvious that we have quite different value starting points. I accepted, as I told you, the proposal to introduce a transitional arrangement for the ADP and for the Citizens' Counselor - although there is no decision to apply the transitional provision - not because I thought that the original arrangement establishing an objective and unpersonal age limit rule was unconstitutional, but because I do not want it to be misled by the public in our country that we want to continue our policy of paternity of the past, that is to say, to take out the old and put our own. Apart from several other, mainly legal, improvements that we have made, some of them in the implementation of the report by the Scientific Agency of Parliament - which I fully respect, even where I obviously have a different view, such as the issue of the appointment of personal services - the most important changes that we have made are to broaden the choice of staff returning from the availability or dismissal of the previous bodies to which it belonged. The most important thing in this category is the acceptance of proposals which both the committee and the Municipal Police have heard here. I had already said to the committee - and by mistake it had not been incorporated into the draft law which was posted - that in Article 19(4) the planned forced switchover would be converted into a potential one. I have accepted other proposals relating to the return of municipal police officers, especially the possibility of them being placed, if they choose not to return either to the municipal police or to the other choices given to them by the bill, for example to the agencies of the new Ministry of Immigration, not only the Ministry but also to those supervised by this Ministry. I also extended for the other categories available and fired. This strengthens mobility because these employees who return not only to recommended personal positions in the Ministry's headquarters or to its regional agencies but also to supervised bodies can be placed. Therefore, this makes it easier to serve both the officials concerned and also to serve the public interest. I respond very quickly to an objection which has been raised here, that we have only taken care of the restoration of injustices and not of the service of the general interest. That is why we have anticipated these new forms of mobility, which are voluntary, but we have taken into account the needs of the services and have not expected the debate on the bill. The circular we have sent to the services, to send us their immediate needs, on the basis of which we will proceed immediately after the publication of the law in programming, had already been sent on expiry of the information and requests from the services on 23 March. I quickly oppose the legislative improvements that you will see and which are mainly of a legal nature, so that I can go to the amendments that I am going to accept. First of all, I will mention the ministerial amendments. Amendment 109/50 on VHS is accepted. I have, however, accepted the relevant legislative improvement...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u7	What amendment is that, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u8	It is the number 109/50 for daily care centres, centres of vulnerable groups and Roma. There have been proposals here, however, which I have incorporated into the relevant legislative improvement, so that there are no exceptions to those who continue to provide care but also to cover other bodies. I accept Amendment No 88/35 on the financing of the parties, Amendment No 87/34 on the insurance coverage of workers in the Greek Sugar Industry, Amendment No 112/52, which was developed by the Deputy Minister, Christodoulopoulos, on the feeding, housing, hygiene, infrastructure and accommodation of refugees and migrants. I also accept Amendment No 108/49 by the Ministry of Health for auxiliary doctors in the RIS, Amendment No 107/48 by the Ministry of Health to take over and settle expenditure on exceptional night-time overtime fees for nursing, administrative and other medical staff in the RIS, Amendment No 106/47 by the General Secretariat for the fight against Corruption, where there is a legislative improvement that identifies the needs of the General Secretariat and Amendment No 105/46. Mr President, you will allow me to make a statement here, Mr President. I fully respect and consider the reform of the 'DUGY' to be absolutely positive. I would like to answer the questions raised because I accept this amendment. The answer is as follows. Unlike attempts in the immediate past to introduce general exemptions from “DENMARKING”, which had rightly been criticised and withdrawn, this particular arrangement is totally targeted. It relates to a single category of operations, the reversal of acts by the Ministry of Finance. What are these actions? Where there is funds in an account that has not been exhausted during the financial year, a revocation must be issued so that they can be transferred next year. We know what funds they have not been able to use by 31 December. Therefore, the time available for the act to be adopted and for it to be published in the 'DENMARK' is very short. For this reason, the completely management accounting provision proposed by the Deputy Minister of Finance gives a month to the Ministry of Finance to issue and upload this operation so that money is not lost which is necessary and more generally in the planning of the public administration and much more now. It is therefore not an extinguisher of the 'DENMARK' sweater and why the need and predictability are clear and why it is not a general exception, but an entirely identified category of acts. You have my absolute commitment that "GENERAL" will be respected as a way of protecting transparency and, ultimately, democratic control, public administration accountability. As far as Parliament's amendments are concerned, I would like to say that there is a large number of amendments. A lot of people I didn't accept. The large number reflects the size and multiplicity of injustices. I said myself at the beginning of my position that, yes, we are trying to restore injustices, but we cannot do it with a bill. We cannot restore all injustices in a moment. We have a commitment to what we think was a blow to the rights of individuals and collectives - within a short time horizon to make it right. I have tabled amendments which do not have an economic but, above all, an institutional nature here. Only where the injustice and tension was obvious and there was economic costs I accepted them. I am obviously committed to looking at them in the future. I should also like to say a few words about the Members' speeches in this category. They will, however, see from the legislative improvements I have made, that many of the comments submitted and not just on the majority side have been accepted. I would briefly mention the amendments that are accepted. Amendment No 83/31 on municipal nurseries, Amendment No 81/29 on the lifting of criminal and disciplinary penalties for the non-injurious use of municipal and Community property, Amendment No 82/30 on the operation of the National Centre for Public Administration, Amendment No 80/28 on the financing of LAGs and, in particular, of OTA children's camps, Amendment No 79/27 on the extension of the deadlines for the use of municipal and Community property, Amendment No 90/37 on the inclusion of ratings for forestry services, Amendment No 91/38 on the loan of LAGs and loans, Amendment No 56/6 on expenditure already incurred on the fraud and the provision for this year. Furthermore, Amendment No 57/7 concerning the recognition of an ELGA service, Amendment No 60/9 concerning the secondments of EBRD workers, Amendment No 103/44 concerning the transfer of officials under the procedure of Mr L. 4230/2013, Amendment 11/51 on speeding up procedures for the recruitment of fixed-term staff, Amendment 66/14 on the reintroduction of staff of the insurance funds and of the OAED in their seats and a similar amendment of members of the SYRIZA. This amendment is from Members of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u9	Minister, you said 1151. I think it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u10	It's 111.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u11	Excuse me, Mr. President. Apparently, as the gentlemen say, it will be. Also, Amendment No 68/16 that improves our rules in Article 19 of the Municipal Police. Amendment No 70/18 was to be considered positively, but I would like to see whether costs arise. I had given a relatively positive answer to the Member of the Communist Party with a reservation. I'm not accepting it now. I'll look at her in a future bill. In addition, Amendment No 98/40 on the possibility of concluding cleaning contracts in the public sector and in the same way as the insurance funds 66/14 which are the same as I mentioned earlier. I called her twice. These are the amendments, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u13	Because of the criticality of your speech, Minister, I left you to speak for 15 minutes. From now on, however, Minister, only if objective clarification is made on your part, because you have completely exhausted the protagonists and dents. Secondly, before I give the floor to Mr Mitsotakis, who is obviously asking for clarification or for it to be put forward, I would like to recommend to him that, despite the fact that most of the amendments are in time, if they are possible in the short term, when the bill is being discussed in committee and where the draft law is being processed, because we have now voted at the outset and else will come to an end on the whole. I counted some 20 amendments which will go as articles in the bill which, when we voted on the bill at first, were not there. I think it is even more important to talk to the committee, because now we are under pressure here. Mr. Mitsotakis, would you like to place yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u14	The Court ruled as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u15	I give you the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u16	Minister, you have just accepted a number of twenty amendments which - Mr President, I would like you to hear that too - all together in substance constitute a new bill. There is no report from the General Accounting Office of the State. I do not know whether this is the new way in which you want to legislate and what the view of the President of the Parliament would be, which so much insists on good legislation, but what you are doing, Minister, is not a good legislature. How do we know about all these amendments that you are accepting that there is really no financial cost? From your own guarantee alone? This cannot be an acceptable way of legislating, especially when you are accepting so many parliamentary amendments. What goes through our minds is clear. You have dictated some amendments to SYRIZA Members. They are tabled as parliamentary amendments to avoid discussing them in the body of the bill, not even discussed in committee, coming directly to Parliament at an afternoon sitting and voting. Some of them are very important and we will then come to point them out and show exactly where customers are hiding. Mr President, I would like to remind you of the recommendations made by the President of the Parliament on how the amendments should be accepted. Let us say, Mr President, that we condemn this practice. We will not support the parliamentary amendments which Members themselves have not defended. We do not know the contents. Develop the contents. You have come here and you have spoken of fifteen amendments. Some of them are three and four pages. What does the House know about the essential content of these amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u17	I was asked by the President to facilitate the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u18	What does this House know? Have you heard of the MPs? Have Members been placed on the amendments? These are the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the This is a very convenient way of bypassing the reports of the General Accounting Office of the State. As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, we still have a large number. These are amendments which obviously are not relevant to the bill, and there are also some amendments which the relevant ministers have not yet come to support. I would therefore ask that, Mr President, we be consistent with what the Bureau itself has defined, that you do not accept any amendment which the Minister responsible does not support. I see two amendments concerning the Ministry of Health. I'm interested to read them. Will the Minister for Health not come here to argue in favour of accepting the amendments? Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u19	Here's the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u20	Very good. We're waiting to hear you later. But it would be reasonable first to hear you and then the Minister accept them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u21	It's backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u22	We will therefore hear the Minister argue in favour of the amendments. We shall be placed on the ministerial amendments, but on the parliamentary amendments, I would ask you very much, Mr President, that this convenient circumvention of the procedures of the General Accounting Office of the State, with a number of parliamentary amendments accepted by the Minister, should not be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u23	First of all, Mr Mitsotakis, without me saying whether there is a fraud or not - I am not allowed by the position I am - a similar thing I have said on the substance, in the sense that there is a real debate in the committee and that the bill should come here in full. If I understood correctly, Mr Katrugalos said that several amendments were institutional and were not a financial burden, so there was no need for a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Surely when we come to the other ministerial amendments - I do not know if I will be at the Step at that time, I believe that whoever it is will - the signatory ministers will be invited to support their amendments, because Mr Katrugalos has simply agreed to incorporate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u24	Pre-service recognition, Minister, doesn't it cost? How much is the cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u25	I said 'excluding exceptions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u26	Mr. Mitsotakis, do we want many colleagues to talk or do we not want to? If we want to, please, let us get some time. I will give the floor for two minutes to Mr Voutsi and for two minutes to Mr Petrakos to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u27	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u28	Personally, there is no such thing as that, Mr President. Your name has not been mentioned. Where and where is it personal without your name being mentioned?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u29	Give me the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u30	You currently have no reason to speak. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u31	Let me speak politically on this matter. The procedure is, of course, political, particularly when it comes to Parliament's Rules of Procedure and so on. - is a common place - but the nature of this bill and, in particular, what has happened in the country in recent years and what is leftovers in society has led to the economic development of this current situation. That is to say, there are multiple issues and groups of people which, in one way or another, reasonably consider that they have been wronged, that they have resigned, etc. A number of amendments or proposals have not been accepted which have been tabled by many groups and for the financial costs that such proposals could have been accepted. The SYRIZA Members and during the committees with the presence of the bodies who raised these issues from there noted these elements, as well as other procedures - operators' visits to the parliamentary group - and brought them to our attention. We saw all these people. I understand Mr. Mitsotakis' objection and I want to be honest. But I repeat that the nature of this bill, the themes that have been created in these years, really lead to a first dose in this situation. You should know that there have been serious issues, social injustices for at least seventeen years - I mean successful SAPAs, competitions, etc. That's the first dose.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u32	With what is happening now in the country, will you deal with these present problems?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u33	By the end of the summer, the bill that the Minister has said will come, which will also deal with the issues of evaluation and selection of heads, etc., where we will also be obliged to listen to society and see what of them we will legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u34	What's going on in the country now you know? What about credit asphyxiation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u35	We're trying to find out. We're going out and we're getting informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u36	Minister, your time is over. Please, let us get this over with so that my colleagues can speak. Mr. Petrakos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u37	Mr President, it is an explanation for the reaction of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative and of the former Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Mitsotakis, because these parliamentary amendments bring before him and his guilt for the dissolution of the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u38	All the private sector has died!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u39	Mrs. Vuldesis, would you allow me to speak and say what I think? When will Mrs. Vulture allow me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u40	Mrs. Vulture, let him say what he has to say. Don't waste time. We must talk to our colleagues. He has a right to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u41	But it is incomprehensible that Mr. Mitsotakis' agony about the General Accounting Office of the State is incomprehensible, because Mr. Mitsotakis is not now Minister, so he does not have to be so anxious about what is happening in the General Accounting Office of the State. The Minister and the Deputy Minister are obviously in agreement with the government. So, be quiet, Mr. Mitsotakis, for having settled. And, as the Minister said, most of these amendments are institutional in nature and have no financial costs. So, let's not be so anxious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u42	In order to preserve, simply in order, those who have a financial effect and have been submitted should have the report of the General Accounting Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u44	I'm sorry, have you been put to the parliamentary representatives not to talk to anyone else? Mr. Theochari, I will give you the floor, because it will seem that I am being treated unequally. But please, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u45	I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u46	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u47	Does the Minister of Parliament accept amendments without being able to see them in order to confirm that they have no burden?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u48	Amendments have been tabled. Quiet the majority Members? You want to be quiet? Have the MPs remain silent? Don't put down an amendment? Is that what Mr. Mitsotakis wants?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u49	Will you let Mr. Theochari speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u50	I asked you for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u51	Wait, Mr. Comrade. Go on, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u52	We, too, reserve to see and judge whether these amendments give rise to budgetary burden and whether there is a need for a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Until then, we cannot accept in principle that the amendments which may have a burden are accepted. This is unconstitutional and is contrary to Article 73 and Article 75. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u53	Written your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u54	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u55	Mr. Gaki, you're gonna do me a favor. Anyway, you're a fourth speaker. So what you want to say on personal grounds will be discussed in your speech. I say that to get into the process. I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u56	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u57	Thank you for accepting. The procedure for discussing the articles with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Maria Theleritis, who has the floor, is therefore beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the articles of this bill. Before I refer to the articles contained in this bill, I would like to stress for the most part that this bill is not the integrated programme and that SYRIZA's positions on state and public administration reforms, because, as I said before, we recognise that this effort requires sufficient time and intensity to deal with the pathogens that have been built by the previous governments forty years. As I have said before, this bill also comes to address the distortions of the public sector and restore injustices to workers in the public sector and to self-government, which arose mainly in the context of the memorandum policies and the relevant legislations of the neoliberal government of New Democracy and PASOK. This bill also takes an initiative to reform and democratise the state's relations with citizens. Just as I said yesterday, modernisation for us is not meant without state democratisation. So, with regard to the new Republic's rapporteur yesterday's report that we are putting down the bill on the table by introducing, as he said, the consolidation and retention of trade unionism, I will not use the same word, the word 'constitutionalisation', for obvious reasons, since for the neoliberal approach trade union is a necessary evil and at best something dangerous and obscene. I would also like to point out that we are not embarrassed and shameful about this bill, but instead we are proud of it, because we are restoring injustices. We also wonder whether you have considered your political responsibilities and the suffering you have caused in the country and in thousands of workers and, indeed, without any result, even with your own criteria for austerity and the necessity of this policy. The "Success story", gentlemen of Officerial Response, was only a communal myth, ending fortunately for the Greek people. We would also like you to define the concepts of 'client' and 'father', so that people can hear what you mean. Are you calling 'customers' the citizens who have no reason, no plan, and no financial benefit, have they lost their jobs under 'fast track' procedures? Describe "clients" workers and workers, managers of the AIOs, school guards, local police officers, cleaning houses, PSA teachers? For us, they are workers who have been wronged, and we have brought them back. For us, they are citizens with rights whom this draft law helps to restore them. Indeed, it does not contribute without taking into account the public interest, as was said yesterday, because it is for that reason that some with a decision of the Minister will meet needs as the next bill comes, which is the draft law which will complete the administrative reform as we have as a vision of SYRIZA. Also, this draft law - which is not our integrated programme - contributes to rationalising the functioning of the administration through mobility. Here we want to stand, because for us mobility has another meaning and not the one you have given. You combined it and gave the meaning of the dismissal purely. For us, mobility is an instrument that contributes to the rationalisation of the functioning of the administration. Therefore, the objective is not only the restoration but also the rationalisation of the functioning of the public administration. I would like to stress here that this is our huge difference. It is political, visionary, ideological, because you realise that for us people's conquests and workers' rights it is not an obstacle to democratisation but, on the contrary, it is our objective and a precondition for the democratisation of the public. After all, the basis of democracy in the public sector that we want, through long-term procedures and efforts, presupposes better use of human resources and the active participation of workers in these reforms that we see. That is why the first step is being taken in this direction. I would also like to use an innovatory approach at this point. I would say that what you mainly achieved with an agenda that was almost never visible to the media was the authoritarianization of the state, because apart from cuts and austerity measures, your aim was to destroy democratic processes within the administration. And to return to those old times that we either read from books of literature or some people who have worked in public have experienced them, the state acts as a ruler to nationals and not to citizens and as a dominance over workers and not as a partner. Here I would like to refer to someone who yesterday referred to as a favoured government, a university professor, who says that a state, in order to better manage the political pressures of its citizens and their collective bodies and the gatherings of the interests that restrict the sovereignty of financial capital, is, among other things, led to the creation of decision-making sites outside the mechanisms and institutions of political representation and thus out of any form of democratic control. Second point. Finally, let us finish with the pattern that has developed in recent decades'small or less of a state', because it is the state's controlled arrangements. Here I could well refer to very large theorists, who say that today's invoked in the globalised economy is the state against the markets. For us it is clear that the markets only operate with active state support and that it is the states that salvage the markets when they go to the cliff. It is precisely our aim that the state should intervene, because democratic control of decisions should be taken on how and where what is invested and what must be done through the state, which is why reorganisation of the state is necessary. I will not go into any other references made yesterday, but I will simply point out the main points of this bill. The first thing I mentioned yesterday is the democratisation of relations between the state and society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me five more minutes, please, Mr President. It is important here to say that political turnout is a democratic issue, and so it must be abolished. It is not possible to speak today of political backing when most European countries and the Constitution enshrine this process, the right to strike. I would also like to point out to Chapter 2, on the rationalisation of the Disciplinary Law, that very reasonable comments from the social partners have actually been accepted and that the Minister has included them in the legislative improvements he has presented to you. Here, indeed, for us the participation of trade unionists in the disciplinary board is a kind of democratisation. Finally, I will not mention the restoration of injustices, because we have discussed them in detail. I would just like to point out some of the amendments, which are too many, precisely because they have to function the public, which has suffered a great collapse since the implementation of the Memorandum Policies. That is why the number of amendments that have been tabled to date is justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me what you are supporting with their numbers, because you have already spent the year for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. We support, as a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the majority of the amendments, as presented by the Minister. I would just like to ask you, in Amendment Nos 80 and 28, to add the term 'A' and 'B' to the OTAs' and the word 'Regional Council' to cover both the degree of OTAs, which are the regions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think that most of the amendments concerning the procedures and proposals made by the social partners and unions cannot be adopted as a whole. That is precisely what differentiates us, that we do not restore all injustices but always those injustices that are currently operating in the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u61	Mr Simos - I like it better than Simeon - Kedicoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. If you can make sure I'm on the lists with the name most of them know me, it would help. Ladies and gentlemen, as our representative and the representatives of the river have said, this bill has no beginning. Stones, bricks and horns steadfastly sprinkled. All he does is serve purpose and reveal priorities, such as the service of clientele - electoral and non-constitutional - because that is what is done - that is, an attempt to control the state by strengthening the power of trade unions to an unconstitutional level. It's called the Scientific Council of the Parliament. And I heard no response from the Minister. There is also a great relaxation of disciplinary control. There is a difference of philosophy, as the Minister said. We believe that a strict and coherent Disciplinary Law in public administration upgrades it. The Minister and the Government believe that the relaxation of the Disciplinary Law favours civil servants. Not at all. It makes the good guys and the jury one and that one. This bill turns us back to the worst yesterday. Reforms that had improved procedures in public administration are being reformed, if anything we had learned how many and who the jury are. Thousands of cases were examined that were in the closet for years. Is that gonna stop happening? Because that's gonna happen. I want to believe the Minister who says that this darkening of "DENMARK" is random, isolated. Unfortunately, however, I did not understand why, even in this particular case. Attention, Minister, do not overshadow the 'DENMARK'. It's one of the conquests of recent years! At least you have taken back your plan to immediately change all the independent authorities in the most unconstitutional way. Of course, you didn't. You realised that the decisions made by the independent authorities in an illegal composition - because it would be illegal in this way - would be void. Minister, I didn't mean to go back to your personal matter, but you seem not to understand. I referred to the Code of Conduct of Members of the Government - it is neither a criminal matter nor a matter that will be resolved in the courts - a code that refers to cases where you or a person closely linked to you - family or otherwise - has a direct private interest, economic or otherwise - the political interest is also a form of interest when it comes to electoral clientele - which is likely to affect or reasonably give the impression that it affects the impartial and objective exercise of your duties. Minister, do you think it is not reasonable to give citizens the impression that you cannot exercise your duties impartially when you are legislating for your former, even your clients or for your partner clients? However, I have found what you said extremely worrying, that there is no conflict of interest, because the interests of workers and the public interest are one and the same. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a little reminiscent of popular democracy. I would like to remind you that people's democracies have proved to be a parentheses in history. They still exist only in North Korea and Cuba. I don't think you want us to get to this point. And no matter how much you like it, not all of Greece belongs to the public sector. There is also the other Greece, which has suffered even more. I'm sure there have been blows. There were people who were suffering in the public sector too. There were people who lost their job. It is Greece of the crisis, it is Greece in difficult circumstances, it is Greece which in the private sector became a genocide. Priority is therefore the needs of society, what it wants, what it needs, what it can withstand. How public can Greeks pay? Let it go. Do you bring people back that the public sector needs? Is there any associated programming? You get them back. And, indeed, you get back people with cases similar to that of the one who, as we heard, had a thousand days to step on his job. She was on a fair holiday, and with this bill returns. You bring a bill of unknown costs to Greece of crisis. I said it in my first speech. 73 million is a relative approach from the General Accounting Office of the State. In a large number of articles, you say, "Appropriately to the acceding Minister". I was therefore not surprised by the uncoupled amendments. We've realised you want the public administration. Your reflexes are notable. And because he commented on the "refractory". Yes, my colleague, unrefractory do some things. Remove impeccable procedures. I referred to the case of the lady of the National Centre for Public Administration. But in this bill you do something very interesting and original. I didn't get it at first. I saw in the final version of the bill, which has now come to us in Article 5a(16), a strange one. In Article 26 of the EC Treaty, the Court ruled: 4320/2015 after the words ‘special partner’ and before the word ‘official’ the words ‘employer or’ shall be added. This has a very interesting story, as I discovered, because that is how the provision on the positions of Heads of Government's General Secretariat was to be in the humanitarian crisis bill. He had in the original text that he could enter as chief poster. In its honour, the Minister responsible did not accept it and so in the Official Journal of the Government, this article is published excluding the words 'emergency staff'. Oh, no! Unregulated, bring it back! What's the story about? Let's ask you a question. I can tell you about the articles, because we accept very little. [[At this point, the ending bell of the Member hits a warning.]] I'll need your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u63	You will also have the relative tolerance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u64	I will be as quick as I can, Mr President. Article 1 states: ‘In no case shall there be a political remit or any other form of personal service as a measure of strike’. While, in other words, the Scientific Council of Parliament has pointed out to you that the right to health is a constitutional limit in the exercise of any other constitutional right, such as strike, you leave it that way. And you have it explicitly. Under no circumstances will the world spoil, Athens die. Also, keep section 5. We have told you that technical issues are dealt with by the Minister, not by any other matter in general. In Article 2, we have many reservations. You may have explained, but we were very concerned about this design. Article 3: ‘Restoration of the presumption of innocence’. But the presumption of innocence had never been compromised. Self-righteous holidays are an administrative rather than a disciplinary measure. It does not insult the presumption of innocence. I'm not saying it. The Council of State says so. Article 4: ‘Diplomatic penalties’. You limit them as much as possible, and of course we accept it. Article 5: Disciplinary boards. You hand them over to the trade unionists. In disciplinary boards there will be two judges, two trade unionists and one agency. Guess who the serviceman's going with. Article 6: ‘Diplomatic misconduct’. You are limiting them as much as possible and you are holding this 'in no case' again. It must be a wish to you that expression with regard to trade unionists. No way we're touching them! In no case shall it constitute an inappropriate behaviour or inappropriate or unworthy conduct to conduct trade union policy or social action. How do you define, Minister, this one? And what's it going to the point? Do you at least recognize that he can't violate my rights, that the other person's right stops where his right is violated? Article 7 accepts it. Article 8 does not accept it. Article 9 also does not accept it. We would remind you that the Constitution says that it is necessary to involve the AACC. We accept Articles 10 and 11. Article 12 accepts it. Article 13 accepts it. The whole of Chapter 4 does not accept it. It's what I told you before. Make a public worse than before, without anticipating the needs without covering where the needs exist, just to justify your clientele. And you are not entitled, but you are unfair to young graduates who deserve a post in the public sector, you are unfair to society that deserves the best possible public administration. [[At this point, the repetitive bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In Chapter 5 we accept Article 22. However, we do not accept Article 23, except that it has this choice of president at the National Centre for Public Administration. Article 24 does not accept it, because you may have removed the accountable administrator, but do you keep people taking FEK - and how will you pay? - in JEPs. Article 25 accepts it. Article 26 does not accept it, much less that you have added it to the General Secretariat of the Government. Article 27 does not accept it. Article 29 does not accept it. A very short conversation about the amendments, other than, of course, when you recognize a pre-service, when you bring people back, when ten years later, people who from 2004 were out of the public domain going to bring them back, are there no costs? I would therefore like to talk about a ministerial amendment, because while it sounded very good and we want to help in every way address the problem of illegal immigration - I am talking about the amendment to tackle migration flows from the maritime borders - and while we accept the immediate and urgent need, a time limit must not be introduced. How long will the need be urgent and the competitive procedures should be excluded? For three months? For six months? To put a limit on it. And enter a quantitative limit. Thank you, Mr President. We'll say more then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty students and students and five educational sessions from the University School of Thessaloniki. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Rabbit, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we must start with a very serious issue raised for us. About half an hour ago, the Minister brought us eighteen, eighteen amendments. We can't accept this thing. We're not going to vote on them. Even if some of them are right, Minister, we cannot look at them, see what happens. These things we have to solve. You were the ones who broke your clothes three to four months ago here that it is not right that this procedure, which is being followed, is not the right one. So we're still saying it now. Now that the government's changed, we're saying the same thing again. You've come and do exactly the same thing. How are we going to see these seventeen, eighteen amendments that you have brought us? How do we decide whether these are right or wrong? And I don't think that's insane the issue we're dealing with. If we ask here even the Members of your party, I am sure you will not know what each amendment says. You're the only ones who know that. Your intention may be correct, but we cannot count on it alone. This thing must be the last time in the Greek Parliament. These things must be predetermined, given to us in committee. We went to six, seven meetings of this committee. So what is the point of going to the committees and discussing, when the last minute, coming here, we are actually having a new bill that we do not know? We voted 'at present' a moment ago. If we knew, we could finally vote 'no' or 'yes'. It completely changes the reasoning with which we have made our decision. This is really unacceptable and I would ask you not to happen again. Because the articles are too much and we will then be placed, when the vote takes place, where we are going to say our opinion, I would like to refer to some of the amendments which had been tabled before and which at least made it possible to see what is happening there. For Amendment No 88/35, on the financing of the parties, we discussed yesterday and said that it was unacceptable. For us, the Golden Dawn, it is a photographic amendment in order to get money for specific political parties. And especially with regard to one of these political parties, the LAOS party, we had heard that signs and monsters have been found before. We'd heard about offshore companies. And instead of these people going to justice, to prove if it's true what's said, if it's a lie, to see who's right and who's wrong, we give them a bonus. At the same time, the third political force - I repeat - does not take a penny of sacks in anti-constitutional and illegal ways, because some in this Chamber have decided so and because others, who knew that what is being done is illegal, is unconstitutional and unfair, did not have the courage to react and agree with what was happening. So we do not accept this thing at all. There can't be any parties that have taken 1.5% right now to be financed over and over while they're accountable to Greek justice. There is another big issue here. It opens up large issues for Muslim parties in Thrace, which go down there, which get a minimum percentage on a pan-Hellenic scale. However, we do not know if they are going to come to this process at some point and the Greek state should even reward them for the separatist tendencies they show. Yesterday, in fact, we had a specific time-consuming question within the House, to which we referred. You must pay very close attention to these, Minister, and above all - I say again - for the Muslims on the ground, who may also create this issue for the party. Unless here the leader of this political party holds some of you and some of you are afraid to oppose. And we're not talking about an unfair confrontation, we're not saying he's definitely punished if he hasn't done anything. But while so much has been heard, not only have this procedure been stopped for four months - to prove who is right and who is wrong and who is guilty - but you are now coming to give him a premium. If that's possible! In Amendment 10849 there is a reference for subsidiary doctors. You - not personally, as SYRIZA - when you were in the opposition a few months ago, have evacuated mytres against this particular event and said that it is not right and should not be done. So we are still saying that, yes, it must not be done. There can be no subsidiary doctors, whom we will send them six months in Rhodes, four months in Evros, twelve months in Chios. What are these things? Since there are places trapped, which must be covered by doctors and various hospitals, these people must be permanently and work there. That is why we are not going to vote on this particular amendment. It's just things that I think are very easy to solve. You simply do not show the mood and, unfortunately, after three and a half months - four months, you do exactly the same thing that you complained of as an opposition. There, of course, we are not going to agree as Golden Dawn and we condemn it as a fact, it is in Amendment 11252 where we are talking about public procurement without a tender, but by direct award. We as Golden Dawn, where we hear about direct assignments and related, are vertically opposite. There for us are too many dangers, voluntaryly or involuntarily from some. There's really a big ghetto. So we cannot agree. And I wonder how you brought this thing now to be voted on. How are we going to vote on what will be commissioned without a competition to some, feed and take money without anyone knowing whether there were any other conditions and whether they could be much less of that money? And you do so on the pretext that the influx of illegal immigrants in our country is too great. That's what you're right about. We agree, too. However, one important way to solve this is by safeguarding our borders so that there is no such huge invasion of illegal immigrants. Not by giving, no awarding public contracts. If that's possible! We want to stress as Golden Dawn - and this morning my competitor, our Parliamentary representative, Christos Papapas - said that we disagree, we are perverse to Article 10. For us it's about the first stage of the electronic file. At first, as far as we know, this article had been attempted, it had been discussed quite harder - to say so - within this House. With various reactions that have existed mainly from the Golden Dawn, but also from various other bodies, you have 'cooked' it a little and you are presenting it to us today somehow. We reiterate that this is the precursor to bring the e-mail to our homeland. We do not tolerate this, we do not accept it for religious reasons, because 99% of Greek citizens are Christian Orthodox. We do not accept it, however, as free people, as free Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u67	Thank you. You were absolutely consistent. The next special speaker from Potami, Professor Panagiotis Kartsoulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members of the Government and Minister, the first reaction after the shock we have experienced with the fifteen parliamentary and five ministerial amendments, which we have not seen, we do not know, is this: it is truly shocking for us, which we are the first time in this House, to see legislative techniques, which at least remind me of the days of the unspeakable Memorial of Thovala, when - remember - there were ministerial decisions, which were retrospectively governed by law. In other words, the ministerial decision was not authorised. I remember that, as I was then attending Parliament meetings in another capacity. We are talking about the darkest moments in the legislative life of the Greek Parliament. And now it is unprecedented what is happening. I think it's not just a bad piece of legislation. It's an unacceptable piece of legislation. We have amendments for which we do not have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. We have amendments, which our first assessment is that they are within the limits of legality. We have amendments, which obviously conceal syndicated interests, which we have not discussed. And above all we have amendments which completely change the original piece of legislation we have been discussing. When the Minister accepted many of the comments we made in committee, it made us feel that we were in a positive direction, despite our disagreements. We are really changing our opinion and our impression of the bill at the moment. You bring another bill, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, and we state from the outset that we are unable to monitor it. I am afraid that if you do not withdraw these amendments now - I mean during this debate - we are obliged to deny them all, without entering into their contents. It is the only way to tell you that this practice is unacceptable and creates a huge problem in the functioning of Parliament. It is twice as unacceptable for a left-wing government, which was professed in the name of good legislature, and indeed from the most official lips, the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament. And even though there was evidence of this - and I am referring only to one example of Article 26 of the bill, which was one of what we had not discussed in committee and discussed it now - tell me, Mr Minister, that you have seen too many legal texts but also other colleagues. Have you seen an article entitled ‘Other provisions’ before? This shameful tactic of the 'other provisions', which have always been unnecessarily provisions, is a practice of the Greek Parliament not in all its periods, but in any case over the last few decades, which is considered in some way to be given, even though it is stifling every concept of legal certainty in the air. But in an article I've never seen it before. Do you have an article entitled ‘Other provisions’ that has how many items? How much? Ten! In the same article there are ten different items! What we used to call 'heterogeneous legislation'. Here's what's on the article. The first paragraph has rules concerning asylum. The second paragraph contains provisions concerning IAT, which have nothing to do with asylum. The fifth paragraph refers to the selection of Directors-General and the arrangements of the Staff Code. The seventh paragraph deals with specific independent principles, not the other two that we discussed before. The eighth paragraph deals with musicians. Totally special arrangement. The ninth paragraph of that article, ‘Information Society S.A.’ - Participation of representatives from the Ministry in the Information Society. It is also regulated in the same article. The tenth, it has working hours, i.e. current staff code issues. It continues within the same 10 - take note - with a second sub-section on the subject of licences, the setting-up of a staff council, the subject of a special secretariat. All this is an article. I just ask - and I think it is reasonable to ask - this. Tell me, is this possible to apply? If, in other words, a man goes to court, is there a judge able to award justice and justice with such legislation? And that's what the rest comes with. I am very sorry, because at the moment I am obliged to make this type of point, and we have been in the mood to make much more productive and positive points. We wanted to highlight a number of issues on which we could agree and which could form a field of joint exercise of all Parliament's wings on the issues of administrative reform, because we believe that the issues of administrative reform are a policy that must be national policy. We wanted to tell you about the action plans, we wanted to tell you about the targeting, we wanted to tell you about the resources we are losing, but unfortunately we don't have time, and we can't, and it seems you do not want to talk about these things. In the end, you do not want to discuss administrative reform. And I say this because, in the absence of time, I am obliged to refer only to one, which, in our opinion, is a major issue and has to do with 'DENGY'. And despite what you have said, Minister, and despite the assurances given by the Deputy Minister of Finance, you realise that at the moment what you are starting to do with "DIAGYY" is a very bad start, because you will find imitators unfortunately. There will be others who want to do that. They will want to suspend the operation of the 'HUMANY' for a period of time in order to achieve a result. In this case I agree that it is a minor issue that we are discussing, but it is not a matter in itself. It is the practice that you are following through such a method. And the question is as simple as that. After you have the possibility of doing so through the interoperability of two systems, or even of modifying the Presidential Decree, why are you experimenting with the law of “Guarantee”? DIAGY is one of the few conquests of the period of monuments, which you also recognized is one of the real conquests and moments of the Greek public administration. For us, this approach is unacceptable. We call on you and I ask you to withdraw this provision. You're doing a lot more damage than you're supposed to do. You remember that there is - and I am sure you remember these from the students' years - a principle of proportionality in law. You can't shoot a sparrow with a cannon. That's what you're doing right now. You are hitting a small problem - which is indeed a minor problem, because it concerns refunds and revocations which are only for ten days - and you are creating a much greater problem than that. We would therefore like you to withdraw that. I will be very brief and will only be those which we have not discussed in committee, so that I do not repeat myself. What I would like to say to you is, what exactly are these amendments? I am really stuck - let me express - with these amendments. Do you remember when we discussed the fight against corruption in the General Secretariat against Corruption? How many days have it been? Can we have an amendment now, which concerns the organisation and functioning of the General Secretariat for the fight against corruption, before we can vote on it? And what are we voting for? What does the amendment say? I do not know if all these amendments are in your knowledge. It is to share those thirty positions that we shared between the new Secretariat of Support for the Vice-President and the General Secretariat against Corruption. We now transfer the positions to the General Secretariat against Corruption, of which fifteen of the thirty are advisers! In fact, I think you're following the worst moments of the past, where you're creating at a terrible speed of party armies. There is no precedent for what you are trying to do here. But it is the same logic as the one we pointed out in the first bills, which created the famous unpaid counsellors and you, Minister, said "But it is nothing. They are volunteers who want to help." So are they here? Plus fifteen, plus thirty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more issue and I am done, Mr President. For the terminology that concerns - to close with something positive - the amendment of the provisions of Article 14 for elderly people's daily care centres. You have accepted the amendment and we support it. It's very positive. Finally, I have retained the amendment which deals with emergency needs, the amendment of Article 28 of the Treaty. Date of birth: 4033/2011. Just one question, which has nothing to do with the content, namely the issues which the Deputy Minister has raised here, on immigration issues. It's about the method again: Do you know what law is that you invoke him? I'm sure few of you know that and they better not know him. It's one of the first memorial laws. It is one of the laws that Mr Papaconstantinou, if you remember, made the direct assignments to assess at the time the Greek state's problems for the deficit. Do you remember the story with the 'GRANT THORNTON', the direct assignments of 700 million? This same provision, the Memorandum of Understanding, which was then exceptionally introduced - and which the previous government has misused - is an exception to contract law, in order to do something characterised as a Memorandum of Priority, which is now being used. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's all for now. I would ask you very much to reconsider some of these. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u69	I will give the Minister, for one minute, the floor, in order to submit to the Minutes of the House, the supplementary legislative improvements, in order to initialise, photocopy and be distributed to you. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I won't take time from this House. I just want to say that I am tabling what I have just presented, because they needed the signature of the co-legislator, who was put in place. I'm just filing it out for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u71	Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u72	We must say that we do not share all this debate on the amendments. I understand, of course, the New Democracy and the River. They want a public sector in this line with workers who have been made redundant, with no rights, with overturns in labour relations and have reacted to every amendment that we have had for several days, and we have had them studying, seeing whether we are accepting or not. So we do not share your position on the amendments that have been debated and some have been accepted and some have not. As far as the debate on the articles is concerned, let us go from the first article. There has been a lot of discussion again, with great intensity from the New Democracy on the subject of military service. I said yesterday, Mr Kedicoglou, that we understand that you are with one side, with the business groups, the monopolies and you want subordinated workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u73	We're with the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u74	You do not want strikes, so you do not want such rights, you even hate trade unions, as you have said, because they participate, etc., and even your own, how much more so the class movement that is defending with passion the workers, their rights, their modern needs and conflicting with those who are today the business groups. The class struggle won't stop, Mr. Kedicoglou, whether you make use of the retirement or not. Because now, with this draft law, Mr Kedicoglou, open windows and doors are left in the name of public health, to be recruited. That is why we have tabled our own proposal to close these doors and windows and indeed to continue here. We want, in fact, a concentration of powers so that - as we clearly call it - we can overturn this barbaric system, we want the working class itself to come to power and, of course, it creates its own state, its own public administration, because that state cannot become any different. It will be a state that defends the interests of big capital and this public administration will oppress workers and the people to be able to serve this policy that meets the needs of capital. For Article 2, which deals with arrangements for the AUSP and the Citizens' Counsel, we have said about the independent authorities, which you so much defend, that they are not independent, in name they are independent. They serve a specific policy, which meets the needs of the class in power, which runs the test, and of course in that line is the ASA and the Citizens' Counselor. We are voting 'at present'. In Chapter 2, in all the articles, we are voting "against" because the Disciplinary Law, as it has been shaped, aims to force civil servants to implement, anyway, this policy that serves the capitalist development path. Minister, it would be very important, however, to see the remarks included in the Pan-Hellenic Association of Educational Course Technicians, which are important but as you said in committee, are outside the logic and spirit of the Government. We believe that these proposals on Disciplinary Law and Changes improve somewhat the situation and it is not so stubborn - to say so -, authoritarian toward workers. In Chapter 3, in Article 7, we vote 'yes'. In Article 8 we vote'residents' because we are opposed to work contracts, to seasonal employment, which, regardless of the procedures, are used to eliminate the permanent and stable work and the rights arising therefrom for workers. With regard to Article 9, which concerns the participation of IASC staff in the mobility procedures, we said yesterday that the Government sends the call for the conversion of IASC personnel into permanent ones. We are voting 'at present' so that we do not find this difficult. We have, of course, tabled an amendment with a general number 74 and a special number 22. Please see her. It homogenizes - to say an expression of your own - the employment relationship in the public sector, with a permanent and stable job. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In Articles 10, 11, 13 concerning the AACC, we are voting 'at present', of course, expressing our reservations about personal data which are not guaranteed anyway. We are voting 'yes' in Article 12. Chapter 4 entitled ‘Restoration of injustices - Restoration of staff - Mobility’ is an important article. In Article 14, 'State of application and procedures', we are voting'residents' because, as we said yesterday, a number of workers are excluded from the scope of the article. I mean, for example, that you did not accept Amendment No 70/18, while you said at first that you would accept it. They stay out. Not included in temporary or final disposal tables. It's an important issue. Also, Minister, IGM is not included, even though there is an amendment. Of course, I do not know what is happening and what is the government's position as a whole. But it is an organisation, it has played an important role in geological and mining research, with a great deal of supply, workers are skilled and we believe it needs to be reconstituted. The government must state clearly what its position on workers is in order to be aware of them. It leaves the scope, as we have said, Mr Minister, of the cleaners, for which you have of course accepted an amendment, which says that their employment is extended until the end of the year. However, employment will be in line with the same conditions as previously, with EUR 320, with fixed-term contracts. This does not solve any problem for those workers who have been struggling all this time. An amendment I would like to mention, Mr Minister, is the one that speaks of the 'TEO S.A.' workers. They're the ones who were public law. Their contract was turned into private law, with the gun to the head, 'or accept it or not'. Our amendment is the general number 76 and special 24.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u75	It is in the ‘ENNATIO WEBSITE S.A.’. They can't be because they're private law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u76	Yes, but it was public, and then they went to the “GENNATIO DUE”. How it was done by the state also went to the "EGNATIO WEBSITE S.A.". We are simply saying that it is an amendment that the government wants to see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the cleaning houses are concerned, you talked about the end of '12. The school year, however, is 2015-2016. What's going to happen from there? Aren't schools going to be cleaned? Are the kids gonna stay like this? It's an important issue. We have tabled an amendment dealing with the question of school units and I think you should see it very seriously and directly, because it is not enough to extend the contract by the end of 2015. Schools won't stop needing cleanliness. I think it is an important issue that you need to see. As far as the successors of the 1997 SAAP competition are concerned, I think it is wrong. Where's this situation going? I believe that the question of workers needs to be addressed. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance. I'm not going into every article. I shall refer to the ministerial amendments. We are not only saying 'no' to the first amendment with a general number of 87 and a special number 34, where the CDE's money is being taken on the deficits of the social security institutions, but we also want to denounce the logic of the government, which has certainly also been implemented by the New Democracy. In 2014, the New Democracy had taken money from the ACEE to cover deficits of the OAU and OTA. Today, you also extend this possibility until 2018, i.e. get money from the GFCM and cover deficits from the main and ancillary funds. We say that this arrangement must not pass. We say 'yes' to the Ministerial Amendment No 88 and a special 35 on the financing of parties and'residences' to the Ministerial Amendment No 105 and a special figure of 46. We say'residents' in the Ministerial Amendment with a general number of 106 and a special number of 47. We say 'yes' to the Ministerial Amendment No 107 and a specialist number 48, which regulates newspapers for doctors of the RIS, PEDY etc. However, we say there is the emergency. Why? Because there's no personal. There's got to be hired to the hospitals. All on-calls that are beyond predicted are paid by the state budget, Minister. It can't be that the Ministry chooses every time who's going to pay. The state budget will pay. We are also saying'residences' in the Ministerial Amendment No 108 and special number 49, which refers to auxiliary doctors. We say that a bill needs to come, recruit permanent staff and not take advantage of this legislative framework and cover permanent jobs with subsidiary staff. This unacceptable regime must be brought to an end. We say 'yes' to the Ministerial Amendment No 109 and special number 50, since the other institutions are also covered and the Minister accepted this addition. We are also saying 'yes' to the last Ministerial Amendment No 112 and a specialist number 52 to deal with emergencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u77	Mr Katsotis, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u78	As far as the amendments you have accepted are concerned, we are saying'residences' in Amendment Nos 60 and special 9, as well as in Amendment No 82 and Amendment No 30. We say 'no' to Amendment No 91, and Amendment No 38, and to Amendments Nos 98, 103, 111. We would also like to say, Minister, that there is an amendment for workers in civil aviation, who go to this voyage bucket rather than to those places to ensure safety. We do not understand why you are not accepting such an amendment. You are also not accepting the amendment to OSE, TRAINOSE and SAS. That is where there are about twenty-five more workers in beds and beds, who are over fifty years old and have been dismissed unjustly. We believe the government should take a stand on this. These are the amendments. I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for the time. I will only refer to an amendment that we have tabled as a Communist Party, the amendment number 68 for the Municipal Police, which addresses the issue. We have said not to say that, but we will vote 'no', because we simply do not want this municipal police mechanism. Also, Amendment No 70, and a special 18, Mr Minister, we believe that you must accept this, because you are facing this phenomenon, because while they have been included in the provisional lists of nominations in the municipalities, they do not have fully guaranteed labour rights. There's no cost to them. No cost. That's all and thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Mr. Mavraganis Nikolaos, special speaker from ANEL, has been speaking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u80	Madam President, they may not need to, because we have been far away at first. We will now be going to those articles where we would like some improvements or at any rate have to make a special reference. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in principle we have placed ourselves in a position that this bill was certainly necessary and certainly makes a cut, because it balances and balances between rationalisation and the humanisation of public administration. In this context, therefore, we are making the following comments: In Article 9, first of all, Minister, we propose that, if it could be in accordance with the legislation, there should be a provision, if you like, of a State commitment, that in future, those who provided their services in the public and wider public sector will have the luck of sharing them according to the criteria that will then be laid down. This is to show and symbolize that in all directions the same sensitivity is demonstrated. We fully agree with the legislative improvement you have made in Article 10, as it says: 'in no case can the identification system be included in a positioning system or biometric data' but here we must change the term 'biometric' and set 'biological'. Let's go to Article 15(5). Here again, for reasons of symbolism and substance, but also because the whole piece of legislation is intended mainly by humanism and social sensitivity, in paragraph 6, where we are talking about the ranking of candidates - and we necessarily refer to some of the criteria on which this ranking is being carried out - I think that they must be taken into account, with your own welfare and thought and as you want to formulate, social criteria and, above all, disability, luxury and tritext. Because we are all aware that one of the grim social problems which is plagued by national and social poverty is inherited. I shall proceed, Minister, in 19th, as we want to add it as a welfare. We need a prediction. I know the difficulty, and why you have not done it so far. In the many consultations that have taken place either within the House or outside the House, your thoughts have been understood. But I would like to put it. There is part of the former municipal police officers who have been absorbed and transferred to the stadiums of those penitentiary officers. Optionally, it should be possible, at least, if the thresholds for local municipal police posts are not met, for those posts to be covered by pre-primary penitentiary officers transferred from the Municipal Police. I come to Article 20(5) on the PCA, in the last subparagraph we say: 'The provisions of this article do not take over cases pending before the administrative courts'. This is probably where...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u81	He's removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u82	Has it been removed? No problem. It could only be left for the ultimatum. But since it has been removed, even better. In Article 28(4), Minister, I will focus on the interest, because I believe that the National School of Public Administration has drawn all the institutional attention - and rightly so - of the Greek state and is a pillar for public administration. It has become an institutional, social and scientific investment on it. I would therefore like to say that in the moleculosis system, this must be in fact also symbolised. In other words, Article 28(4) in the third indent states that 'for the successful graduation of the National School of Public Administration, a hundred forty-five points are added.' But when we go below, we see that in other cases, as in the interview, three hundred and fifty moles are given. I think that we should do what to increase the molecules limit that one can get from the National School of Public Administration, precisely to show that we understand this school as a special institution and give it exactly what it deserves. I think that's where we should give a raise. Finally, I would also like to express a wish for the IGM. The IGM must benefit from a legislative provision. I don't know if you can do it now or in your next piece of legislation. But there must be a provision for the reasons I have analysed. I know that a common mental site of all colleagues, but also of you, Minister, is that the IGM was a national project. That is why, because it was a national project and a national pillar, it was set aside by previous Memorandum governments. We must have a legislative provision for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u83	Thank you to Mr Mavragans for not using all the time. Mr Xanthos has been asked to make an intervention. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. We have tabled two amendments, which have been accepted by the Minister of State, Mr Katrugalo. One is to provide for the procedure for compensation for the overtime work it offers to public hospitals and health centres throughout the country, non-medical staff. From an illusion of n. No specific reference to the law on holidays, exceptional nights, was made to this category of staff. So this is now restored, and so we can start the repayment process soon and the debts of 2015. Accordingly, it is being launched these days and we have sent to hospitals the directive to prepare the warrants and to be sent for approval for the on-calls of the first quarter of doctors in 2015. We believe that this incompleteness in the payments which has been made in recent years and which is due to accumulated outstandingities of the past which have been dealt with by the payment made on 27/4 will be overcome. And we hope, as soon as possible, that the flow of payments for this extremely important project, the work of on-call and overtime, which is now being offered to the public health system by a human resource, which is working under very high working pressure and, of course, wage cuts. The work provided is very important. The contribution of human resources to keeping the public health system up to date and the government leadership of the Ministry is doing everything possible to resolve outstanding issues and to ensure that its minimum requirements are respected with regard to workers are respected. The second amendment concerns the acceleration of the recruitment procedures for ancillary staff in hospitals, health centres, the structures of the PES and the EAW throughout the country. We have said many times that the current procedure, the current one, is very long, more than four to five months and practically annulled any concept of emergency, which unfortunately at any time is currently due to the health system. A health system that has a very tragic understood at this time, so that the proper functioning of very critical clinical and parts throughout the country, particularly in the province, ancestors and islands, is kept under constant test. With this amendment, therefore, we believe that we will make a very important intervention to shorten the time needed and thus faster to meet needs. There won't be any need for a position notice. There'll be a list of qualified doctors per specialty and per U.S. Each doctor will be able to apply for listing on these lists, in these lists, in two of seven RUs, and as soon as the gap exists, this list will be activated and the first one will be selected in order or in the event of refusal, so that the procedure can proceed very quickly. The important thing is that we extend the term of secondary medical staff from one year to two years throughout the country. One year remains for the urban centers, Athens and Thessaloniki. In the rest of the country, hospitals - to the extent, of course, have the necessary resources from their own income as provided for in the law - may extend this term to up to two years and the three-year term provided for in the case of infertile and island areas is extended to some barren and critical areas, such as intensive care units, TPAs, EKA, oncological clinics, mental health units and artificial kidney units. This is how we broaden the scope of the three-year period. So, especially in these parts that are very critical and needing human resources with experience, we give the opportunity to remain doctors who already have a pre-service and an experience in their subject matter. We also give the possibility of applying. We are broadening the current limit from seven to ten years since the acquisition of the qualification. We thus make it easier for doctors who in recent years, because the process of opening permanent posts of medical staff has been frozen, have repeatedly made use of the possibility with subsidiary staff to work, at risk of having no other opportunity in the next few years. This amendment will also be supplemented by a regulation on the possibility of using hired recruitment by means of a service document. This procedure is provided for in the law. What we do is facilitate the process. We exempt ourselves from the term "the existence of an act of ministerial council", which is too long. This is not a requirement for supplementary doctors either. At the same time, we give the Ministry of Health the opportunity to make this final choice after a reasoned report by the relevant body. In this way, we are making much faster use of and energising a law-enforcement facility in order to urgently fill gaps in the public system, especially this year when the health system is being tested and there are huge gaps everywhere, in cases where all other efforts with other forms of work - let us say - of relationship to the health system have not worked out. Our will is obviously to arrive at some point through a tender procedure - which we have announced and launched in the next period - permanent jobs and medical and other staff to provide adequate cover for the needs of the health system with single working relationships and stable jobs so that we do not have to use these types of employment contracts, which we understand are problematic from the point of view of the employment insecurity that has the human resources that are working in this way and certainly make it difficult for well-functioning and which may adversely affect the quality of service. But, as we have said many times, this year is an extraordinary occasion. We have an emergency plan to keep the health system up with the synergy of doctors and other staff, nurses, paramedics, all workers in the health system. With the valuable work of the staff and its contribution, we believe that we will be able to respond to this difficult situation and to reform the hospital budgets this year, which are known to be too deficits and create difficulties both in the proper functioning and supply of hospitals with the necessary materials. In this way we will fight a battle to support public care in our country in this period of humanitarian crisis and health poverty. It is also expected that the regulation we have done for the two and a half million of our uninsured fellow citizens, which will facilitate their access to the health system, ensure with nails and teeth the functionality of public structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u85	Minister - I have not put time on my own responsibility - please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u86	I shall conclude, Madam President. There was an amendment by fellow SYRIZA Members who proposed an amendment to part of this amendment I mentioned earlier. The logic of the amendment - with which we agree - is that the use of this measure should not be uncontrolled, i.e. the recruitment of staff on board blocks. We realise the need for demarcation and for this possibility not to be abused. I explained the peculiarity of the juncture. The political assurance of this need is precisely with the authority given to the Ministry of Health that this is finally approved by these notices. Until now, hospitals or other supervised bodies were able to make use of this provision automatically, without requiring approval from the Ministry. So that is what I think is crucial. The political will to make the minimum possible use of this provision is obvious and we believe that at this stage we should not put restrictions which will make it difficult for us to meet emergencies which cannot be met with all the other ways of recruiting us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The floor has also been asked by Mr Mardas, Deputy Minister of Finance. How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u88	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u89	Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment which has been accepted late and which deals with an issue which has been discussed on a whole day in this House. I am referring to the legislative act, the transfer of cash from the general government and institutions to the Bank of Greece. On the substance, this amendment incorporates the comments made here and by the stakeholders. In particular, the amendment refers to what is happening with time-consuming statements. It had been heard who would bear the costs of the so-called 'break-up' of the time-limits of the entities' deposits. Our answer is that it will typically be borne by the state. On the substance - several days have passed - the banks, which have either written or oral bear these costs. From now on, I do not think there is any other case, because in fact the sums we thought had to be tabled have been tabled. In a second paragraph, the question had been raised as to what happens with those cases where we have higher forward rates than the ones given by the Bank of Greece. The answer is that in this case, possibly now, operators will be able to take part in this process. A third position, particularly in local government, is the question of what will be done with the fees that are regarded as contributory. In this case, although we stressed it here, it is now recorded that these fees are excluded. We therefore consider that we have adopted all the remarks that have been heard in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u91	We thank the Minister for the clarifications. Before giving the floor to Mr Dendia, I would like to make an appeal. There are too many speakers, fifty one in total. I shall apply what is said in the Rules of Procedure and those who are not in the Chamber will be delivered and deleted from the list of speakers. I would ask everyone to keep track of the time. I would also like to address the Members of Parliament if there can be a consultation to limit the speaking time from seven to five minutes, because I think there has been a lot of discussion in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u92	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u93	Yes, Mr. Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u94	I just want to tell you, Madam President, that I give up my denial. I would like to point out that the colleague who should have spoken is Mr Athanasios, who was in the position of Mrs Antonio, who precedes Mr Treasury. I guess we're a little confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u95	It's okay. I'll talk later, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u96	To speak after Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u97	I just don't have Mr. Athanasios in my papers, I have Mrs. Antoniou for that, and I didn't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u98	They had changed each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u99	Mr. Kaklamanis has been informed. It is justified that you do not know. All right, the world's not gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u100	Okay. All right, you'll talk right after. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u101	Madam President, I will keep the time. First of all, I would like to begin with something other than this piece of legislation and the amendments concerning non paper, which began a few minutes ago by the Maximos Mansion, which refers to problems of reaching agreement because of disagreement between the European institutions. Regardless of the accuracy or inaccuracy, of this no paper - and I am explaining why I am saying 'the inaccuracy', because at the same time I am telling the Minister of Finance, at a meeting with Commissioner Moscovisi, at the end of the meeting he made optimistic statements that everything is going well, in good pleasure, but in any case, regardless of the accuracy and inaccuracy that I cannot see - the logic of issues of top importance for the country and for its economic life - is unacceptable. If the Prime Minister considers that there is a matter of major importance - and indeed the announcement of no agreement from the Maximos Mansion is primarily a matter of national importance - the least that the National Representation owes him is to come here and inform him immediately. Do you want the doors closed? With the doors closed. And to make serious information, not like the other one, the last one - if you remember - where its only purpose was to bring the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group together. These things, at this juncture, in this country, are not serious. And I sincerely ask that they be avoided. I request that they be avoided. I now come to the issue of this legislation. First of all, in reversed this series, the image of the amendments - the representatives of the parties were rightly placed and before the rapporteurs - Minister, I am sorry that it is not serious. It's not serious! We are in the first days of a new government. Of course, we all have to admit that many governments have made repeated abuses over time in this respect but in the fourth piece of legislation of a new government and in the first piece of legislation on public administration and labour issues, that the amendments are accumulated and that several of you are accepted, without a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, without warning and without continuity, it is a very bad principle for your Government. At this very moment in time the legislation, ladies and gentlemen, is much to say. In particular: In Article 1, the provision - although in substance, I do not disagree with it - is closer to the constitutional provision. In Article 2, the Minister happily made a statement, because as originally stated, what was happening was that he had intervened in the term of office of the constitutionally independent authorities. I would like to say that I am not one of those who support the independent authorities. I have repeatedly told the Chamber that the independent authorities have been in a form, because the political system of the country has refused to take the responsibility it owns. But that's a matter. On the other hand, putting an end to the age limit is not right and the Minister rightly took it back. I have to say in disciplinary proceedings that the presumption of innocence must indeed be applied, but I would expect that this provision to be accompanied by provisions which make the disciplinary procedure easier and faster so that the legal sense of society cannot be affected. Where there is regression and opposite reform, it is Article 5 for Disciplinary Councils, which a majority passes through the hands of the judiciary officials to trade unions and administration. This cannot be considered positive. And I'm really sorry to see that. I would also like to point out that Article 6(3), which deals with disciplinary misconduct, states that 'in no case is an inappropriate behaviour or inappropriate conduct which is unworthy of an official to conduct a trade union policy', leaving far-reaching scope for interpretation. I hope that it will be the right interpretation. But we're putting a heavy burden on the courts, permanently. I would also like to point out that in the fourth chapter on the rehabilitation of injustices, in particular Article 15, the process of identifying and filling positions is in my judgment directly and cunningly unconstitutional. In particular, Article 103(7) of the Constitution provides for the involvement of the AACC, supervision by an independent authority under the constitutional provision. It has become the following evil here, Minister, and it has not been mistaken. In paragraph 8, you write: “the AACC has the power to carry out an own-initiative inspection”, using the same word used by the constitutional legislator. In fact you are taking the APA out of procedure, except for extreme cases described in it and putting paragraph 8 there, just to cover the constitutional letter, directly violating the constitutional spirit. I think it would be wise to change it. I now come by taking advantage of the two minutes left in something wider that always matters. Ladies and gentlemen, I am truly one of them - and you know, and I have said it on several occasions, I have also said it in the media, I have said it in the Chamber - that the government wishes to succeed. I wish every government would succeed. I am a citizen of Greece and I care about my place, as we all care about our country. I think that I am expressing the great majority of the Members of Parliament, the Greater Minority and the Eleonian Anti-Population. I am sorry, therefore, to see the course of this government and I am sorry, Minister, to see its legislative work. The first hundred and a few days of the ruling left have a law on the humanitarian crisis only, which is about 200 million, about 1/7 of what the previous government had spent in a year. They only have one law on late payment, which in practice accounts for 2% of the debts, the shameful legislation on Savvas Xiros - I repeat, the shameful legislation on Savvas Xiros - and two legislative acts. And, in the second act, we have the dismantling of the institutional autonomy of local government, even though, in essence, I can understand the government that asks for these resources. It could well have been in advance with local government. We also have a complete dismantling of two mechanisms. The mechanism of immigration and the observation of the dissolution of the penitentiary mechanism. You saw the day before yesterday. As far as immigration is concerned - and I am sorry that the Minister is now missing - a minister cannot be a follow-up in the Chamber, I understand that - and I have repeatedly said that the Minister responsible for immigration has spoken about low absorption. Obviously it does not have good information on the numbers. Of the two funds, the Return Fund and the Foreign Borders Fund, the uptakes in 2012 and 2013, for which I was responsible for the Ministry, were 88% and 90.25%. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If the absorptions of 90.25% by the Minister are non-absorbing, very nice. I wish for her day to touch 100%. Ladies and gentlemen, I end this: The Left in Greece has a very large tradition and with very large political leaders such as Elias Elios, Leonidas Kyrkos, Ilias Tsirimokos, Alexandros Svolos, with historical locations for the needs of the left-hand conception of Greek society. I am therefore sorry to see the legislative work and parliamentary work produced by the present left-wing government. He can't stand any criticism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Mr Dimitrios Gatis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u103	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u104	Minister, I didn't see you. Excuse me. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u105	I would like to ask Mr Tindemans a question, in order to clarify the issues, because you have for a long time been responsible for the issues you have developed. You were committed as Minister that by the end of 2014 - and these funds had been committed by the European Union - there would have been two and a half thousand places in specific closed storage structures, closed - open, and of course not in the camps that we found. There was no such structure. You also know - about one of these bills, for which you are in your opinion and have been overtaken - that not all the caterers throughout Greece had been paid for a six-month period and there was a need for special legislative intervention, because there were not even the minimums for people to eat there. These are a few points. I am not telling you what was left over from the port as a request for the boat but also for others, which have never been satisfied. In this sense, I just want to point out that you are not in such critical and burning issues as easy to criticise. Because your days have begun this increase and it is not your fault. The data of the 2014 migration and refugee flows came in 2015 compared to 2013. So do not be so easy to blame the current government on matters and objections, for which you have your own responsibilities. This also applies to the resources - I say this for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Dendias has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u107	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make a clarification. And I would also like to thank the Minister, who gives me the opportunity to clarify the open structure issue, because many of the government's rhetoric raises this issue. With regard to payments, Minister, which you mentioned, I left the Ministry of Public Order in June 2014 and I do not remember that there were outstanding debts at that time. In fact, the procedures for the tenders were also speeding up. The second issue you raise is more important, however. First of all, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, about open positions, that when I had brought a provision to this Chamber in 2013, then, Minister, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group did not vote for this provision. Besides, when we started building open structures - and if I remember the first one was on our day, as you said very well - our commitment was to be made by the end of 2014. We had chosen certain locations, for which I can also get you the relevant document, but it is sure that it is still in the Ministry of Public Order. But I started in May 2014 to fix and open the first. And if I remember correctly, the first one was in St. Barbara. Do you remember perhaps then who prevented the project? I'll answer you. In front was SYRIZA's candidate for membership, Mrs. Duru. This has stopped the progress of the work. And you remember then that I had appealed to SYRIZA and in no way did SYRIZA help me, and I was forced to interrupt the work, precisely so as not to raise a matter ahead of the municipal elections. And I come now after a year and a half, I have to answer for that, Minister, as far as you as opposition are concerned, are you doing what you now count against us? In any case, I am keeping from what you have said, and I endorse the following, that immigration is a very serious issue. I don't have to answer for what happened to the sea. My responsibility was to land - when I was a minister - and for my days on land, the entry into the country was zero. They literally zeroed. If you want our opinion, if you want our advice, if you want our knowledge, we are completely at your disposal and, in private and without a political communication, because that is a matter for the country. No political benefit we don't want to put you in a difficult position. But it is very serious and I am very pleased to say that the way you manage it so far is not just amateur, it is almost criminal by omission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u108	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u109	If they understood correctly, we agree that two and a half thousand positions were to be held in open and small structures and we did not receive one. I would like to tell you that for your day, it has indeed been zeroed or almost zeroed the entrance from Evros, because the wall has become.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u110	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u111	As a result, all these flows from above, to go. So, first they were on the islands, then they went to Evros and then with the wall they came back to the islands. So, do not you think there has been a project and a strategy on this issue. Because the crucial issue, which has to do with the future of this case, is whether or not they have put to the European Union - what the Greek Prime Minister has done for the first time at the special conference that took place, which was once again included - the issue of taking responsibility from all European countries for the crucial immigration issue, as three and a half thousand people have already lost their lives in the Mediterranean and as hundreds of thousands from both sides and because of the war conflicts, namely Greece and elsewhere, we have been forced for years with Dublin I and II and Schengen to be just human guards. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u112	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u113	You participated in parallel European Union summits. Never - and it is not your fault personally - that your government put the strategic issue in relation to immigration, namely the taking over of responsibility from other countries. You were simply managing, as a representative of some of the opinions and decisions taken in absentia and with a minority of your own, for years, such a situation, unfortunately also for those who came and for the Greek people. So it is not so easy to discuss this issue. You know that very well. Do not distribute so easily responsibilities to a two-month government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u114	The Minister is not allowed to exploit the ministerial advantage...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u115	Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u116	Excuse me. He's already the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u117	Allow me. We've lost four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u118	Not on my own responsibility. The Minister took the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u119	Not on your own responsibility alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u120	Only?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u121	I have to defend the weak. And the weak in this Chamber are the fifty-one MPs on the list who want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u122	And instead of talking to the MPs, who are subject to the prerogatives of the ministers to speak when they want and not receive an answer, (he was not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u123	Please. Mr. Teddy, I think it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u124	But the Minister has created absolutely false and enthusiastic impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u125	Give the floor, as we have already announced, to Mr. Dimitris Gaki for seven minutes. Mr Athanasios, who was in the position of Ms. Antonios, is following, but I had not been informed by Mr. Kaklamanis, and immediately after Mr. Christos Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u126	Five minutes, didn't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u127	I called on the parliamentary representatives to reduce the time. There was no response.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u128	He's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u129	So we live in the seven minutes that I announced from the eight that were normal. I expect a response from all parties, we can go to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u130	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u131	Mr. Gaki, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u132	I, Madam President, will probably make it easier for you. It'll be less my location.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u133	Everybody says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u134	You'll see. Put the time on, so we don't fall out. Unfortunately, Mr. Mitsotakis is not in the Chamber. I, for three and a half years, have been in the Greek Parliament, perhaps for the first time, received such an insult, when it considered that majority MPs could ask questions, because they are asked by government ministers to avoid the sling of the General Accounting Office of the State (GCC). This not only affects the majority Members of Parliament, but all the Members of Parliament, because it could also be assumed that the government can also find from the Members of the Officers of the Committee of Inquiry available to Members and ask questions in the form of a 'crowd', so that some of the amendments it wants can be put forward. I also feel, for the first time, that the parliamentary role of the Member is being undermined so much, but so much through this process and by the expression of Mr Mitsotakis. But I will insist that I defend this parliamentary role which I have been entrusted with and which I must defend in my personal responsibility. Minister, I have signed two amendments. But I would like to begin with a remark on qualifications, the crises of the leaders of the units of decentralised administration. Within qualifications, you put proficiency - and above - for language, while the lower could be requested taking into account that many civil servants are of a certain age. They could very well claim the position of the director, the supervisor, and may not be able to do so because of this criterion, perhaps. Look at it a little. I think that with a legal correction we could add the lower, which would be more correct, formulated. The second amendment which we tabled and which the Minister does not accept is an amendment referred to in Article 10 of Law 3220/2005, which replaced Article 9 of Law 2085/1992, which provides civil servants in general who serve in border areas the benefit - the right to receive a subsidy or to build up up to 40% of the objective value. But the state came and, in order to ratify this measure, provided for a catastrophic ambiguity and not creative, without specifying or rather leaving the criterion of total residence time in the border area of the 15-year period. He doesn't specify it. It wants a total and not a cumulative one, as should be anticipated. Furthermore, it is not described enough, resulting in problems in obtaining this benefit, any breach of the terms and conditions of the law or the deliberate withdrawal or abandonment of the service, etc. There are two elements which we have tried to clarify with one amendment, namely 63/12, which has not been accepted, with the Minister's commitment that we may be discussing it again. We are going to go to Amendment 9239 and I would like to refer to it in more detail. It concerns the recognition of the employment relationship and the restoration of the justice of workers in private law for an indefinite period in municipal water and sewerage operations. We ask the government to accept it, because, as has been pointed out in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, measures to rationalise the administration are being introduced and, in particular, measures relating to relations between the state and society. It says that a significant reduction in the bureaucratic burden on the citizen is being achieved, resources are being saved for the administration and the rational use of executives is facilitated. With this very logic, we are also in line with our improvement regulation, and all the Dodecanese MPs from all parties and the Larisa MP, Hero Dimitis, but also the Corfu MPs, are supporting it, although they do not sign it. With this amendment, therefore, all the provisions of equal treatment for workers and the specific operating characteristics of JHA are taken into account. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, the proposed provision aims to remove the question about the legality of workers' transfer and service to the merging JHA undertakings, in accordance with Article 109 n. 3852/2010 and the settlement of these cases concerning unjust treatment of redundant workers in DPRK. The proposed regulation ensures, in our view, the proper functioning of the company itself by making a significant contribution to the protection of the public good of water and, in particular, in areas such as island regions, where at Rhodes we are currently preparing to operate the Kadura dam and the needs of staff are increased and we are at risk, through this process of not meeting this request for the reintegration or rehabilitation of fifty-seven workers in DPRK, to grant the use of this good in the private sector. In particular, we call for the draft law to be added to the following article: "The transfer of employees from the merged municipal water and sewerage operations, which were established and operated in accordance with the provisions of the Law. In this context, it should be noted that, in the case of the Netherlands, it is not possible to apply the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 1069/80 to the new municipal JHA undertakings set up and operated on the basis of Law No 1069/80. 3852/2010 of the ‘CALICRATES’ and following decisions of the local and administrative councils concerned, irrespective of the procedure followed by their recruitment to the above enterprises and provided that they have been serving there for at least the last two years before their merger in respect of work for an indefinite period, shall be considered lawful as from the day the relevant Council decisions are taken. And any action to resolve the employment relationship between the workers covered by the above provision is compulsory from the time in force.’ [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are a number of Court of Auditors' decisions which justify this provision that we have put in, which I do not have time to mention. There is also an expression of the Law Council of the State, with its 192/28-5-2013 Opinion. There is also such legislation as is provided for in Article 40(6) of the Treaty. 3801/2009, which is exactly what we are formulating and which is currently in force in Article 64 of the Treaty. 3801. It is precisely the wording of Article 64 of the Treaty. 3801 and we want it to be implemented here, so that we can resolve this ambiguity I have told you that it is disastrous. I also want to say that there are no budgetary costs involved. Why is it not that budgetary costs are not caused? Because water and sewerage companies are a reward, they have their own budget and balance sheet and will therefore not be charged with the state budget. In our proposed amendment, therefore, we consider that we are contributing substantially to the proper functioning of the JHAs and call on the Minister to see the issue through the view of islandity and tourist particularity, which multiplys the need for human resources to oversee and remove the damage to the water, cleaning and sewerage network. Mr Minister, we are also addressing human sensitivity and your political culture, and we invite you to accept this amendment at least at the last moment, which is tabled by all the Members of the Dodecanese, as I have told you. It is an opportunity to prove that the left-wing government has another "eye" to deal with the labour problems of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Gaki. Mr. Athanasios has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Before I refer to the bill, I would like to make a briefing to the House and especially to the SYRIZA colleagues who are first elected. When we were a government, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the technical benches of the troika and the representatives of the Task Force in the ministries came very often - and I am referring specifically to my own ministry - to discuss issues of modernising the procedures for speeding up the administrative acceleration of their own and other issues. At that time, we were accused by your colleagues who were in the field of justice, that we are negotiating and discussing the substance of legislation relating to the award of the law - which was untrue - and that also affects our status as an independent state, but on the contrary that we have a fault in the troika. So I would like to inform you - and I would like someone to deny it to me by the ministers - that the technical benches of the troika have been here for a long time and have been discussing the substance of the legislation. Although there was a committee of the Code of Civil Procedure, which my predecessor, Mr Rupakiotis, had, under the law of the Parliament, nominated by a ministerial decision, another committee was already appointed by the current Minister for Justice to deal with these issues. And he's meeting where, please? In a central hotel in the city of Athens and, in fact, in issues in which we put'red' lines. I'm telling you this for information. The second issue is a statement that I would like to make on the occasion of the statement made by the Minister of Public Order this morning at the 'REAL Fm', which he said a little - very quickly - I read you precisely - 'The Bulgarian who brutally murdered his child'. I understand the Minister's position in terms of scientific interest in a horrendous crime, but as the Minister for Civil Protection, he cannot proclaim the murders of prisoners, regardless of the actions they commit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u137	Put him in jail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u138	Please very much. Mr. Athanasios, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u139	As far as the amendments are concerned, I must make it clear from my position that when they relate to legislation and are brief, I am in favour of them being made. But that evil that's happening today has never happened before. I must remind you of the opening speech of the President of Parliament. I read you exactly from the Minutes of the House: 'It is my commitment to the position of the President of the Parliament that there will be no delaying amendments accepted either without the subject of the bill'. Finally, on immigration, Mr Voutsi, in view of the fact that I come from an area that each day accepts on average fifty to three hundred immigrants, I would like to say that it is, indeed, a huge problem. He wants national consensus and discussion. It's not a question of controversy. The immigration, I consider it more important than the economic crisis that the country has. In the economic crisis sooner or later, we will find our pace. Migration is a huge problem. The population is being altered with what this implies. But it is a matter that we will discuss next time. On the bill, I said to the committee, Minister, that the title of the bill: 'Democratisation of administration, etc.' is offensive to our democracy and Parliament, because they are called upon to vote on a bill bearing this title, implying a non-democratic attitude for the previous administrations and reproduces and thus actually adopts phrases such as 'The junta did not end in 1973', which I would like to believe that the Deputy Minister does not embrace them. This is a legislation with a clear state-owned figure, which increases the operating cost of the public, allowing the reinstatement of dismissals, made redundant, mocking the trade unions, restoring their privileges and making it difficult for disciplinary prosecutions against civil servants. In Chapter 1, the new legislative framework for the full banning of requiring and retiring is stiff and problematic and will appear at the next strike of garbage harvesters, when public health is threatened. I must remind you, Minister, that if you look at the case-law of our courts on this matter and in the views of science, you would see that the general ban on the appointment of Article 23(2) of the Constitution falls short of the provision of Article 22(4) of the Constitution. In other words, the right to strike goes back to the good of public health, as it is, with the invoicing of public risk. We also have Article 25 of the Constitution, which applies the principle of proportionality. We have the insurance systems to resort to and - if declared - a strike of illegal and abusive. If a strike is declared illegal and abusive and does not comply with the headlines, the board of directors and there is no possibility of being recruited, then you will lead the world to the criminal courts for violating or infringing public health, etc. So you realise that a huge problem arises. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are too many issues. I would like some time, Madam President, because it is very important in my view. With Chapter 2, reinstate the old regime in the Disciplinary Law of Public Staff. Restore unionists to disciplinary boards, difficulty in imposing a definitive cessation to the jury. I mean, we're going to a regime in 1980. In Chapter 3, in Article 11, for the record that the AAC will now maintain for the participants in the competitions, it must be cleared - it is correct first - if the Personal Data Protection Authority has delivered an opinion on this proposal. Chapter 4 in Articles 19, 21 shall be reintroduced and reconstituted by the repealed branches, etc. In Chapter 5, with Article 23, issues are dealt with by the National Public Administration Centre. Now on the board, you have graduates and students represented. In other words, we come to an issue that the Diamantopoulou Act on education - the right law - abolished. So it looks like you're going to abolish the Diamantopoulou law. Where appropriate, paragraph 6 of Article 26 is problematic - take note of this - which abolishes the process of re-examined conversion of fixed-term contracts and the rental of works for reasons not explained in the explanatory memorandum. I do not know if you explained this at the morning sitting but it is a very serious matter. Also, in the next paragraph, in Article 10, you are increasing the days of service leave from ten to fifteen. Why is that? As an incentive for unpaid overtime? Doesn't that sound a little rousphetological? Paragraph 14 excludes from the procedure of the Ministerial Council, PHS, officials of immigration services of the Ministry of Interior. I said that to the committee, and you said you would see it - it might be right, especially if appointments were made from European funds. However, how can it be ensured that over-intakes are not intaken for those who employ the Greek State's own resources? I put it in committee too. I have been absent because I was in another committee and I do not know if you have clarified it. It may be that this paragraph should be limited only in the case of (a). In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have an increase in the operating costs of the state - state as I have said - when the fate of the negotiation is hanged by a thread for the country. I wonder if this is your famous negotiating tactic you are taking. It's like doing something and getting a gun to shoot our own leg after. I shall now turn to two amendments, and I shall end, Madam President. The first amendment is by general number 105 and a special number 46. This reverses the principle that the entry into force of the administrative acts is identified by their entry into force in the ‘DENMARK’. I do not think that this is the principle, but it is the principle, if I have understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u141	Good. The Government of New Democracy has, in practice, strengthened the institution with the actions of Mr Mitsotakis, your predecessor, when, at the time, opposition MPs and the media, who are committed to the SYRIZA, were devouring mytres for their abolition. The present government, on exceptional occasions, introduces a fundamental breach in the institution that is surely going to abolish it shortly. I'm afraid it's the breakthrough. The second amendment is the general number 112 and a special number 52. It is the amendment signed by Mr Voutsis, Mrs Christodoulopoulos and Mr Panosis. For reasons of urgency, as you say - and I reply to the Minister's denunciation, which did not convince anyone - and in order to address the increased migration flows, the obligation to compete, studies, supplies and services relating to the response of this need is abolished. A full justification from the contracting services is required. Good. The amendment, however, shows that there is absolutely no planning to deal with the problem, nor has the phenomenon been adequately studied, and that is why the costs required cannot be predicted. Even if this amendment was accepted, a time limit would have to be set. And so I reply to the Minister who said we will lose money. Set a time limit not to lose them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u142	Mr. Athanasios, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u143	I'm done. A time limit of its power, for example, a quarter or a semester, which, if necessary, could be extended. It is not possible to dismantle the legislation on competitions. If, Minister, your intentions are good, you will set limits for sums and especially time limits. Now how you're going to convince that you don't want to serve the hostile businessmen, it's a matter of your own. I have a chapter, Madam President. I won't develop it. I shall put forward a memorandum, to see for myself the Minister, which concerns provision 2, and all the case-law developed and the positions of science, concerning the terms of office of members of the independent authorities. If you want, study them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mr Pappas, Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, for eight minutes. Then Mr. Voutsis and Mr. Mitsotakis follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u145	With due tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u146	With due respect, always, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u147	Madam President, before I move on to my position, I would like to ask you whether you and Mrs Konstantopoulou have been informed by the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Lambrouli, of the proposal, our request to the Bureau for a minute's silence so that the Greek Parliament can also honour the fallen of modern monumental occupation. These fallen persons are not other than the wrongful assassinations of MARFIN, which are now being completed five years, but also the thousands who have been killed or killed on the altar of our neoliberal neoliberal memorial policy. The Bureau and the parties, until I ask you, Madam President, have kept not a minute's silence in honor, but have kept an eye on our proposal, with which we look forward to a consensus of all the parties, irrespective of political differences, which are consistent with the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. In one minute's silence, Madam President, it is not the Golden Dawn that asks for it. The Greek people are asking for it. I would also like to stress, on the basis of what is being heard, two days now, in this Chamber, that the bills are good. We look at them responsibly and take a position, 'no', 'yes', as the case may be, trying to make a responsible and creative opposition. So the government is currently implementing a communication policy. I don't know if you're willing or unintentional. He's actually staring at the tree, not the forest. And I say this because at the moment the son Erdogan is perpetuating in our Thrace, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in complete alignment and creative subjugation with the respective Ministry of the Neighbour. Yesterday we participated in the National Foreign Policy Council, where, among other things, we stressed our firm position, which is the immediate proclamation of the Greek EEZ and the search for new strategies and alliances, in order for our country to move forward. Unfortunately, we have found that nothing has changed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The German Europe and neo-taxi America continue to deceive our proud people. At the moment that all this is happening - and this is the tree and forest that I mentioned before - we are calling on the government to take place on secondary and third issues. This does not mean that the bill under discussion, that is, public administration, is not a serious matter. We do not deny that it is good to have parliamentary work. We are not forgetting the previous period when parliamentary work existed only when translations were finished and mail had been completed by the troika. Today's bill contains heavy titles and propaganda tricks. The world, the Greek people, are full of propaganda. People don't want communal tricks, they don't want communication policy. The people want results and, above all, want their will not to be interpreted, not to interpret the will of the Greek people according to the beam. The people voted for an antimony SYRIZA. He voted 'no' in the memorandum. The people voted, according to how you told him, the hope, the hope that comes. Unfortunately, however, there is no hope. There's a storm coming. There are new tough memorial measures coming, measures that will bring Greeks to their knees further. You will not call it the Memorandum of Understanding. You will call it an 'Honourable Agreement'. It also suits you to the recent expansion of the IMF, to hypocrite to antimony. Slowly, methodically, accelerating, of course - we see it day after day - the government retreats completely on its election announcements. It doesn't tear the memorial. The government has its programme: HISPHIA Conservation, a 30% increase in the extra contribution for incomes of over 30,000 euros, a new type of memorandum contracts, an end to early pensions and, of course, an end to the commitment to tax-free 12 000 euros. No commitment - I would say withdrawal - to provide the thirteenth pension to the low pensioners. And, of course, no talk about the restoration of the Samara-Venizelo confessors. This is the real program of the neoliberal left government. The South-West neoliberal cigars are urgently calling for an agreement. Your attitude shows that you will do the favour of the non-existent political chief of officer at least with the results of last January - Anti-Population, the dean of rajadism and mercanism, Antonis Samaras. Following the footsteps of Anton Samaras you lead the country to destruction and subjugation. If you ultimately betray your voters, if you betray your antimony speech, you will betray the hopes of the Greek people. And you'll find the Greek people across the street. You will find us across the street, we Chryssayites, stable Greek nationalists, loyal to homeland and social justice!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Voutsis has the floor for eight minutes, with sufficient tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, today's day that this bill is being passed is a day of democracy for the country and society. It is a day on which thousands of people, thousands of families for the restoration of their right, their lives, their dignity. I want to tell you directly that the amendments tabled are a very small part - and I told you beforehand - of those which could be tabled if there was a greater budgetary possibility, which is not currently available, for the restoration of a small, even if those in the past 15 years - and before the crisis - were clearly wronged in the name of customer relations, which the previous governments set against people who were literally thrown into the margin of the economy, society and life, with appalling injustices. The day before yesterday, we were very close to these people who - women and men - remained standing, survived this ravine which was literally due to political and social hatred towards the weakest and vulnerable categories of citizens of this country by the Memorandum governments. I will tell you something, Mr Athanasios, and we do not accept in this regard any denial, although the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy had foretelled - in his view, he had a right to do so, and then I said - that this bill will be considered by the institutions of a unilateral nature and possibly blocked. I am telling you right now that this process is ending and with the vote on the articles in an hour's time, that we did not and did not agree to put the institutions, Greece, abroad or anywhere, to discuss this bill for a minute or a minute. If you have any other information or appreciation, I would ask you to submit it from this Step, not to say air words. This government legislates as a government of a sovereign state, as a government of dignity, hope, with great difficulty in recovering the rights of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u150	Mr. Voutsi, I said the law of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u151	I get it. You think I didn't get it? At the same time, however, you have made a generalization and it is important to clarify our positions and attitudes. What have we lived for the past three, four years? I'll tell you directly now that it's completed, that a circle closes. We have lived through a very tough policy against the forces of work, about the collapse of the forces of work, both in the public and in the private sectors. We lived through the trick - which we had often responded in here, but it was not easy to answer, of course, in the splendid notes of 20.00, which started a minute ago - social automation, the strategy you set. In other words, private employees against public authorities because they are privileged, because they are permanent, because they are rulers, they are oppressed, or why they are enclosed in their own business by public and vice versa from public servants to private employees. This trick of social automation, which acted as an interactive function of hatred within society, was completely revealed. Because, at the same time, by making the account - and you can only do it - you have created as many wounds as you have created on the College of Public Administration and on the body of tens of thousands of civil servants, while at the same time bringing the middle ages and the conditions of the private sector. Would you come for a walk with us - if you don't know or question it - to see with what personal contracts our children find us a job of three and a half hundred in supermarkets and elsewhere in branded profitable industries? In order not to tell a fairy tale that if they were to raise wages, the industries would close down and we would have further unemployment. This is a process of social dumping in our country, so that both public and private sectors break down wages and break rights. It was a single strategy on your part, which unfortunately has also had dramatic results. At the moment in the private sector, in addition to the huge number of unemployment in itself, those who work - especially younger children - are in a dramatic situation not only pay but also labour rights. And these are things you should know. So we come with a bill, which is the first step, indeed, for democratisation and indeed for public administration to stand on its feet. What you say'stabilism' is the possibility of using public administration for better services, for the country really to go forward rather than for the ministries and the central government to work for the saprophyts, namely for small, larger or medium-sized bodies who are in favour of the so-called 'private economy', with all know-how, executives and the projects of the public sector and the ministries, which were your strategy. That was your strategy. In the name of the small state you meant working a small state to be the way out, to form hundreds of such companies, businesses and structures, with customer criteria, unarmed - which is why I said the word'supply' - on public administration, to do all the main jobs that the public administration would normally have to do. So this strategy really went bankrupt. This strategy is over. We are proud that we have not seen a moment of blue, red, green passports and advancements for all those who have been in public administration, even with massive, customer-type policies in previous years. On the contrary, we have seen them and seen them as workers, as officials, as public servants, as officials of public administration, and we are trying with them - it is not an easy job to be honest - to get together, to use all these powers and to move on. Can you talk about the fact that the Left is a state, that it is a party state? Is that possible? It's the winter joke. If there were inspections in the summer, they would say about how your prominence officials are talking about family rule and about setting up a client and party state on the part of today's government, which is not the left - I beg your pardon - it is the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government. It's a social salvation government. Where to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u152	The first is the analogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u153	Eleven to one is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u154	Yeah, hold on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u155	Eleven in proportion, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u156	Listen, to get this over with. Let me directly tell you something I told you next time. Executives who will be called - and are already called - to exercise this antimony policy, namely to go against implementing laws, by abolishing implementing laws to pass the other policy after this throat, cannot be neutral technocratic executives...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u157	So they're party!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u158	So it's partisan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u159	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u160	Calm down, no. They are political, men and women who have an opinion and are not neutral about what happened in the country and how the country will resurrect and heal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u161	Your responsibility is honored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u162	Don't you talk, so I won't get the lists that came for the independent and other authorities. I've told you since the first moment I took over from the Ministry of the Interior that I'll never get into such a list, data, files, etc. But don't say things that don't apply. At the moment, what is being done is really in critical areas, in main areas, in men and women who have typically - and not only formal, but also higher than formal - qualifications together with the government to fight this battle. In other words, what you have done in secret and unreservedly with customer relations for decades is, at the moment, refusing to accept that even by one quarter, something is happening to reverse this policy and to implement other policies. Why do you deny it? Is it illegal or isn't that reasonable? But this has nothing to do with public administration in itself. All levels of public administration operate in the context of today's policy, with excellent and good cooperation with ministers. We are relying on and relying on all levels and we will actually make very large areas, which we would probably all like and have been evangelized from time to time. Why, Madam President, and this is my last conversation, in the recent period and in the middle of the crisis, keep it, because at some point this is going to take stock and on this issue - the permanent malfunctions and diseases of public administration have not been healed at all. The client state was not at all shortened, although the needs and potential existed. Ultimately, it is not possible for all of you to exhaust your own political presence over the years, and I repeat - the most vulnerable, the weakest groups in this country - to account for an account that you have rendered, namely the Troika. For those who have not yet understood why they are eleven thousand three hundred and not fifteen thousand who are recruited, perhaps they should know - I say that for the SYRIZA MPs, who have brought in a dozen amendments and who do well because they are in contact with society and with the real needs - you anticipate another seven and a half thousand redundancies in 2015. That's why the bill doesn't come out. Because we don't do seven and a half thousand redundancies. It's not that we hire eleven thousand three hundred. The budget was deducted from seven and a half thousand who would leave in 2015. These are the truths and not the ones that were hearing before, which you were concerned about because of amendments that have been there for days, posted, they have been discussed in public space and, in any case, there is also a need for sensitivity when these amendments are dealing with the pain and the biodigestion of hundreds of people who have been deeply wronged. This injustice today stops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, will be followed by Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u164	Minister, "We are every word from this country's constitution. In this Constitution we have sworn, this Constitution will serve and serve it to the end." Do these words remind you of you? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Rule 73 and Article 75 of the Constitution on the possibility of accepting amendments by this House without the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State. Obviously, the Prime Minister has a selective ability to read the Constitution. However, from you, Mr Katrugale, as a constitutionalist, I would expect at least a little more openness about how you handle this unacceptable practice. What are you doing here, ladies and gentlemen? We were talking in committee in detail about a bill in favour of it, and against it, which has been discussed in great depth. And suddenly, in plenary, obviously in good cooperation with the Ministry, a number of amendments come in...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u165	Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u166	...which you did not have the courage, Mr. Voutsi, to incorporate in the bill, but otherwise you accept, without, of course, making substantial dialogue. We were told before by Mr Katrugalos the incredible: 'Some' says'may have budgetary costs, some do not. I am not very sure." Is that a minister's answer? Is it a minister's answer to a country that still comes and shaves the funds and agencies' reserves because it does not have to pay wages and pensions and you accept amendments without any picture and any idea as to whether they are charged with the budget? Or do you have any idea whether they're really burdening him? Mr Voutsis, of course, said that these amendments relate to a number of afflictions, some afflicted. In any case, why did you not follow the normal legislative procedure? So let's see if these amendments really concern afflicting or hurting local government, who did not obey the law. Because the first amendment you have accepted and which you did not even have the courage to bring as a provision - because you wanted to avoid the debate on this issue as the devil - ceases criminal and disciplinary persecution against mayors who did not exercise legal proceedings in cases where the primary decisions were justified by contractors. Do you know that this is a legal obligation of the mayors? That they defend the public interest? That they have also sworn in the Constitution to do so and violated the Constitution in good consultation with the pensioners who intended to simulate? With the support of certain legal offices, this fabrika was very nicely set up. And the moment they broke the law, you are now coming here and giving them forgiveness. That's what you're doing, Mr. Voutsi. Are these the walnuts and walnuts for which the SYRIZA MPs come and legislate? I doubt that even the SYRIZA Members who signed this amendment know that. Is that the right legalization? Is that the right practice? Or is it right to exclude from the Act of Ministerial Council 33, which allows Mr Katrugalo or any Minister for Administrative Reform to finally have a record of the Greek State's contractors? And you come over and pass a series of exceptions to PYS. Why are you doing this? Aren't you interested in knowing how many contractors are? Don't you know how much effort the previous government has made and has finally reduced the number of contractors? Why? Because the contractors were the ferry door from which the client state was working. This client state which we - with our responsibilities - tried to degrade. This same customer state that you are now coming and rebuilding a stone - a stone, inheriting the old customers who have left the power parties. That's what you do, ladies and gentlemen. Well, put these aside about sensitive social groups. All the requests from individual bodies, by individual groups, which had not been well justified in the past, you come here and settle them in the name of some social justice. There are some employees in ELGA, here I see, who were also claiming simulation, and they had obviously not simulated with the a.d. 164, they did not fulfil the conditions. To be permanent, too! To pay the Greek taxpayer, without having any idea if you need them, without having done any evaluation of structures, and ultimately without giving the slightest importance to the silent majority - our rapporteur told you too - of the private workers, those who want and claim fate in the sun, who also claim a job, if not in the public sector, in the private sector. Will you ever talk about them? Don't they have rights? How long will this poor private sector finally be able to pay for a public sector which we have fought so hard to limit and which you are now coming with a great comfort again, to increase it, because it is the only game you know to play, this game of customer arrangements? That's what you were good at. That's what you specialize in. That's what you come and do now. And I wonder, because there was a lot of talk about wretchers, as you said, the wretched, the unjust ones. And yes, they might have been wronged by our policy. I never concealed it that the policy of redundancies, as it has been implemented, has created injustices and has not been a policy that ultimately benefited the public interest, as was imposed by the troika before my own days. But I wonder why you're stopping the re-checking of the permanent contracts. Why, are you doing this? Do you not know, Mr Minister - and you have inherited both your Ministry and the relevant dossiers - that we have good indications that there have been too many poachings in the contractors' simulations? Are you not interested in seeing whether there are today public workers who did not fulfil the conditions of the Presidential Decree and who have been permanently resident? And of course they were permanently taken away from someone else's position? Because when you talk to us, Mr. Voutsi, with so much comfort today for new recruitments, what you are not saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u167	Who perpetuated...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u168	When you talk to us in such comfort today, what you are not saying is that every illegal intake you tolerate holds a job in a new employee who waits for a new nurse who is looking for work in an intensive, new economist who wants to come and work in the tax-spring mechanism. The incomprehensible tolerance that you show to those skilled ones who circumvented the presidential decree deprives the positions of these young people, who also look forward to a public career. Of course, Minister, Mr Katrugale, and the mayors who refused to control the College of Public Administration Inspectors - they were thrown out in other words - who, I understand, were also personal customers of your office, come today and make them oil. You see, then, how client networks are connected, the political clientele with the personal clientele in the way you have drafted this bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, Mr Voutsi, I would expect that at the present juncture you would have at least two words to say about the general issues that concern the country, about the deadlock in the negotiations. Perhaps the government at last has to comment on what is really happening, rather than informing us with non papers and presenting - supposedly - a great break between the International Monetary Fund and the European Union, which does not allow you to conclude the agreement. You told us something new now that there are different opinions between the IMF and the European Union. But your work - you know - is not to observe and comment, because if this agreement does not close and break, the Hellenic Republic will go bankrupt and suffer the biggest national disaster after 1922. Well, here you are not commentators. You're not observers here. Here you have been elected by the Greek people to rule and to implement an agreement which you yourself signed. For the interim agreement, you insisted. You broke your clothes that you wanted an interim agreement. And now you suddenly come and say: 'We do not want an interim agreement, we want to go directly to the final agreement'. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if you cannot complete the interim agreement within the suffocating timetables, how exactly will you conclude the final agreement, which will obviously have more stringent conditions, because it will involve more funding? It is truly tragic, ladies and gentlemen, that after a hundred days - yesterday you have closed a hundred days of governance - the best the country can expect is a third memorandum. Worst is naughty bankruptcy. These are the dilemmas we have before us. Or a third memorandum, you will have to sign, sign the country, in strict terms, with a framework, so that it can meet financial needs by 2016-2017, because I do not think there is anyone who believes that with your own government you can go out to the markets, unless you want to go for a walk to see who is boring the bullies today, if you are boring them or if the markets are boring them - or you will lead the country to unscrupulous bankruptcy. This is the dilemma, unfortunately, to which you have brought us. I'm closing, Madam President, from where I started. Mr Katrugale, Mr Voutsi, withdraw all the parliamentary amendments. Now! And listen to the quotes made by Mrs. President, I mean Mrs. Constantopoulou. Where is Mrs Constantopoulos today? I would expect that she would be here, invoking her intention of good lawmaking and taking a little of your ears to the practice of the amendments. Obviously, it only appears when it comes to partying. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do the same thing Mr. Kourakis did with the education bill. So you will withdraw the parliamentary amendments, you will reinstate them as a separate bill, you will take the burden and the responsibility to defend them courageously, to explain them and to accept the criticism. If you do not do so now - and I will wait for your answer - we, as a minimum sign of reaction to what you are doing, will depart from the continuation of the debate. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. The floor has been asked and will be taken by the Deputy Minister, Mr Katrugalos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u170	For two minutes, Madam President. I wonder what's worse. A vicious politician or a hypocritical politician? We hear from the representatives of old-fashioned complaints about the customer monster they created and distances from it, which I cannot understand. There is no more hypocrisy than that the perpetrators, those who created the patronage and the client state, blame their victims, that is, the workers, who have been hostages for years and then dependent customers from them, for the institutional disgrace they have created. In my office, lately - and I've been coming down to meet them - cleaners came from the schools, from Thessaloniki, from the municipalities. Which one of you will go clean toilets? These women took 200-250 euros. And why did they take them? Because, while they were doing jobs satisfying fixed and permanent needs, the institutional framework that you have created and which we inherited and creates huge deadlocks, they were working with eight months, i.e. repetitive fixed-term contracts. All of what you're looking for to apply the B.C.E. 164 you created them. You. It's known that there were triangular relationships in public. "Help at home" is such a thing. Another ministry has the wallet, another ministry has control, the municipalities did the contracts. You created these legal monsters, just to support the clientele. And now, you're coming to show up as punishers. What monstrous hypocrisy is that? How can you play this role, when you have 'blood' in your hands, not only for redundancies, but also for the way in which the superstitions took place and for the half-life these people have? So this hypocrisy we are returning to you. If you want to leave, just like the PASOK's already gone, go. You simply prove that you do not want to have a role in the recovery of Greece and that you are heirs of the sins of your past and you cannot be removed from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u171	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u172	Wait a minute, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u173	Because you mentioned at the outset that you don't know what's worse, the hypocrite or the vicious, and you accused me of being a hypocrite, I imagine you're, perhaps, maintaining for yourself the right and characterization of the vicious.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u174	I didn't talk about you personally. I avoid personal designations, Mr. Mitsotakis. I've been talking about your resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u175	So since I realise that you do not withdraw the amendments, you leave us no other margin, Minister, than leaving this sitting, so that you can discuss your own amendments which you have already decided for a long time, and you have not had the courage to bring to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Harris Theocharis, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami, has the floor for eight minutes, followed by Mr. Petrakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are watching the preparation of bankruptcy from Maximus. What's he trying to do? With these non papers, which we are discussing and say, and the government must finally respond, they say that the government has done its best, has finally given costly proposals. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do you admit that you have not given any costly proposals so far? Two months, what do we do? More than that, what two months? It's three months. What are we doing? Are we giving too much trouble? And now we have finally given the proposals to one rather than one, since Mr Mardas has come with a second amendment today - and we will say a few words about that - and he says that the red lines are now a lot. So the institutions have different red lines and their combination does not let us pass, as if we were stealing, and we have these red lines from the museum and we want to steal the spoil, which is what? The liquidity. The liquidity you've broken into in the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the government and the rule of law, you must be careful. The interior troika is within SYRIZA and ANEL. The interior troika's inside. There, look. That's where to find her, Mr. Voutsi. They may be the presidents, they are the cynics, they are also the bad ones. You've been divided into three: They're the ones who know the line and they're moving on. Mr. Flambury, I'm sure you're very close and you know her. They are the cynics, who say, "Something children know. Something. They'll make it. And then we'll turn around and rule 15 years." That is why the state which is preparing for the changes, with the circumventions which we see here, are also preparing 15 amendments which are unacceptable. And there are the bad guys who need them to catch up and be able to go out and say, "We have the bad guys. They are also.' So-called'red lines' you have. We have told you and we are giving you the political way out. We're helping you with what we're saying. It is not'red lines' that you have, when it is not the'red lines' of the poor and the unemployed. You can change your positions and positions if you need, not give in, Mr. Petrakos. Nobody told you, at least on our side, to endure. To fight hard, we said, and to be able to claim for the Greek citizen, but not for the big business, not always with some excuse: 'Now we have no money what to do? We are happy.' "I redeem debts. "Save lives." Today the European Commission came out that -2.5% was growth three months ago - spring forecasts 0.5%. Do you think this makes it easier for you to do the effort you have to do? No, it's not easy, it makes her insuperable, difficult. And now the IMF suddenly says: 'This is how things have happened, we cannot move forward and we are not giving money.' Occasional circumstances are critical and you must be very careful about the next few days how you will proceed. If it is not deliberate to try to misinformation - because it is not as bad as you want to present it to us, you know we are talking, and we understand what is going on - then it is just an attempt to put the blame on now. Now, we have to say important things about the articles now. You've done the Regulatory and Constitutional Shunter, rag paper. And do you - I wanted to know - secretly from the president as long as she's gone or with her consent? Does he know about this? Because the President and Mr. Lafazanis at a previous session would have lifted the chairs as well. They'd have lifted the pavement, Mr. Petrako, and you know it. But now we are sneaking through all these amendments. "Drumbling" was telling them. May I, too, continue in my speech to call them "comitology"? Because that's it. It's a funny joke we're living in. Mr Mardas withdrew the amendment to the relevant bill, because it was late and brought it to the unrelated delay. So what did we get? We went a bill further and brought the amendment unrelated and late, double unconstitutional, and against the Rules of Procedure? Is that what we're living? He stood up here and said 'I withdraw it so that it is not delayed' and brought it unrelated and late. Mrs Christodoulopoulos abolishes the invitations to tender for immigration-related infrastructure and services. Can I remind you of the vaccines? Because it's an absolute need. Should I remind you of the influenza vaccine? May I remind you of the criticism of the 2004 projects that were all against them? Of course, there was a need. There's always a need. There is one need that forces you to abolish every rule. Indeed, this was in front of the President, who - what did he think to tell us? - He told us that he would inform the European Parliament's Commission of the very interesting things. Tell them how every concept of a competitive procedure is abolished. Let's see what they're gonna say to her, if she's all over the world! To go to Europe and say, 'We take all the procedures of Europe and write them in our old shoes'. "Lords, the purpose justifies the means", that is what you tell us. I must say, you're personally tired of me. At first I was looking to find the things you're doing the same as the previous government to report them. I was saying: Here's something important. I'll say it when they do the same thing as the other guys, and I'll report them. Then I started looking for what you do differently, and I praise something. Now I've stopped. You do exactly the same in every area. I'm tired! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Should we take the amendments - you are mocking us - the anti-constitutional? Let's take them and see them. I just put on titles because I don't have time to say it all. Anti-constitutional: against Article 75(1). Article 73(3) of the Constitution, against Article 88(5) of the Rules of Procedure, but also without the majority of them: that is to say, against Article 88(3), easier recruitment: 111 special 51, temporary recruitment is permitted for cleaning: 98 special 40. You tell us about them that they have no financial costs, namely that recruitment is from the air and that the TATs continue to have deficits. Allow OTAs to have extra deficits: 91 special 38. You make new branches where you bring people again: 90 special 37. You're relishing the persecutions and the money that's been charged to Otta presences. You're giving them away! No budget costs? I'm not actually getting into it. You may have to spare them. No budget costs? Do you dare to stand up, Minister, and say that they do not have a financial cost? Do you also proceed with prolongation of contracts, pre-service recognitions - and these at no financial cost? - legalization of illegal competitions, extension of secondments, abolition of the decade. Some people were hired to go to the border for at least ten years. Let's get out of the border. They don't need to be there. Make reconfigurations, etc. - What can I say? - and bring in PHS 33 mentioned earlier. You bring them and we are looking to find out how to react to this coup you are doing, where you bring them and make them acceptable after the debate on the principle, so that there is no right to express ourselves against unconstitutionalism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will speak for a minute, I do not need much time. We don't leave either like PASOK or the New Democracy. We're here to fight. We'll fight when you're making coups. We won't stop fighting your arbitrary. We therefore call for a roll-call vote in fifteen 'rules', thirteen Members of Parliament, Mr Mardas's delay and the abolition of 'Guidance', where - I said so in my first speech at the outset - did not dare the previous government, although it has tried. Ladies and gentlemen, you will succeed where the previous governments have not succeeded. Where they embarrassed and a little bit, they withdrew them. They did a test, and they withdrew it. You're not listening to anyone. Remove also the 'GENERAL'. But you won't succeed that way. Much faster you'll bring your own endings to what you're doing. We therefore have this request for a roll-call vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Mr Petrakos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u179	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the New Democracy has departed. Logic and expected. I said it a moment ago when I asked for the floor for a minute. No matter how they do what the predators don't understand, they're chasing them. And these days are all those fired, the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, the school guards, the teachers of technical training, the flight control inspectors, who were operating last year without flight control personnel. Shall I continue with other charges? That is why the thirty bodies that came to the debate, when the bodies were heard, were all in favour of the bill. But what can New Democracy say? Admit that he well fired people? But they exaggerate hypocrisy. As the Minister said, they are interested in the private sector. Who? Those who have been following the Memorandum Policies for five years have added a million additional unemployed to the private sector! Although they are not here, but are watching on television and they will find out, we need to remind them and tell them: Unpaid work knows it? Who created it? The abolition of the overtime that took place, do they know it? Do they know the uninsured work? Do they know the institution of the hire of workers? The slavery of the workers through the famous corporations know her? About the unemployment that reached 25% do they know anything about? The private sector is all of them! Did SYRIZA, who rules ninety days, do all this or does those who constantly support the memorial policies and every time bring the famous dilemma: Will we sign a memorandum or go bankrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u180	What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u181	Mrs. Marcus, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u182	Mr. Theocharis said he was against capitalism just now. He said he's against the memorial. Don't ruin it now. I believed him, too. I said maybe the river's changed abruptly. But you're ruining it again. They are therefore aware that, with their policies, the new Republic and PASOK have devastated the private sector. And what are they telling us now? They come and tell us: You guys need to sign the deal. What agreement to sign? They'll answer us. We accept them coming, even though they're gone. What should we sign? Should we sign up for the working and insurance middle ages in our country? Is that what they're calling us to sign? Is that what we're all invited to sign? So, should we sign off team redundancies? And they tell us they're interested in private workers? Should we sign the non-return of collective agreements? Should we sign the non-return of the minimum wage? Should we sign the further pension cut, when the Deputy Minister presents today that 44% of the pensioners in Greece are below the poverty threshold? Is that what you want us to sign? We won't sign it. Simple as that. And in the dilemma - because you want to respond - a memorandum or bankruptcy, we respond: neither a memorandum nor bankruptcy. Deal, because that's what's best for everyone. And we're not going to be terrified, no matter how much they're threatening. Because we know that we can reach an agreement, which will lead Greece out of the memorandum tracks you insist on, together with the PASOK and the New Democracy and you of Potamio, even though for a short time Mr. Theocharis has pleased us that he has changed the line, but you have broken it down with your voices.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u183	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u184	We will not sign such an agreement, which will maintain - I repeat - the working and insurance middle-age in Greece. You are exaggerated by the amendments. Please tell me a lot. You started by saying that you do not know the amendments. What's the congressman's job? There were the amendments. There are the amendments from yesterday morning and the committees. Can't you get to read them? Don't you know the amendments? So are the Members of the New Democracy annoyed by the amendments and left, as did the ladies and gentlemen of the river asking for a roll-call vote? So let us see what these famous amendments you are vaporizing. Let's say some of them. Don't you want the staff of cleaning the buildings to work with private law at least until 31-12-2015? Do you want us to lead them to take cleanliness, give them a euro an hour and name multiples? There has been a debate in this House and there is a document by the Director of Magnesia how much he pays the public to cleaning companies since he kicked out the cleaners. Does this amendment bother you, or does the amendment which says that those who are successful in the selection of regular staff who are already working in the Otto, at last following temporary appointments to become permanent? They work and they get paid. What is the extra financial cost? Does the amendment bother you to return to the insurance funds to people who have been made redundant to work the insurance funds and make pensions, and otherwise you are shouting why they are being delayed? And this amendment bothers you? Or is it bothering you that hundreds of tractor pets worked last year and they committed a riot and are people unpaid for the work they have done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u185	...from OPEKEPE and leave people unpaid!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u186	Is that what's bothering you? Mr Minister, in our view, further amendments must be accepted, because other amendments are fair. What did the gentlemen do? They took the drivers of OSE and TRAINOSE and took them to the Ministry of Culture to make the guards. The Minister of Infrastructure tells you. These people must return to TRAINOSE. Because that means rationalization, not drivers and technicians working as guardians. Is that what you want? And that's what you call the right operation of the public sector and public administration? It must be accepted. Or should the amendment not be implemented - which we have learned will certainly be implemented through a joint ministerial decision - to re-establish the EGMM? The New Democracy and PASOK put it in the EMCDDA. Thousands of them took them to five. This kind of terrible functions you did in public administration and a service was dismantled and it couldn't work, it couldn't get funds from the NRP, it could work programs, it couldn't offer work that it's been offering the country for tens of years. These are, ladies and gentlemen, absent today from the debate - the New Democracy and the PASOK, the amendments which must also be accepted. And they have the courage to also talk about a party state? Who can talk about a party state and a client system? The ones who created the client system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u187	They're putting themselves in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u188	Minister, you will allow me after all that we say, although until yesterday, I agree with the bill as a whole, to say that I now disagree with an article of yours. You are a very democrat and I think we don't need to be told that we are going to create a client state. You abolish the appointed Secretary-General and say that you become managers of service, play the role of coordinator. And they have the courage to say we're making a client state. Well, I say rethink it until the end, revert the secretary-general. Anyway, people are right on one thing, because they're not right anywhere and we hear it from the top.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u189	For "GENERAL"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u190	These unremovable, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here from the colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, who have no arguments - because they have dismantled the public with their memoranda policies, dismantled the public administration, handed over parts of it to private individuals - come today and depart. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We will bring such and many other bills to remind them of their life and state and make them have no arguments and are forced to leave if they cannot withstand the dialogue. But we want them in dialogue, they chose to flee. It's okay. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. Mr. Kyritakis is called in Step for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction "Democracy of administration, combating bureaucracy and e-government, restoring injustices and other provisions" structured in five chapters is one of the most important bills on the way to the restoration of democracy, justice and dignity of the Greek people. There was a serious and extensive debate in the committee, where thirty bodies had time to place themselves on the bill. The reasons for making this draft law particularly important are: Firstly, it is a first step - but important - to restore basic freedoms and rights that were not regulated in accordance with the Constitution throughout the post-government period, such as defending the right to strike by abolishing the political contributory mechanism and rationalising the Disciplinary Law by restoring the presumption of innocence - in Articles 3 to 6 - whose abolition from the previous government had led to the humiliation and degrading of several workers. It is also a first step - but important - for a new State-Society relationship with measures to democratise this relationship, measures to combat bureaucracy, such as Articles 2 and 7 to 13. It is, finally, a first step towards a contract between state officials and citizens, which clearly and transparently defines the role and functioning of public administration for the benefit of citizens and the public interest. And while all the previous ones are very important, since among other things they abolish basic Memorandum Rules, this draft law became popular, it has been due to a significant confrontation of government and opposition and the occasion of dismissal of subtle and vulgar personal attacks on key factors that have been repeated today in this Chamber, unfortunately, of a portion of counterpopulation, of its famous Chapter IV on the restoration of injustices and the reinstatement of personnel who had been dismissed unjustly during the Memorandum. This famous 1st Chapter, with emphasis, the rapporteur of the New Democracy said that he will certainly not vote, together with the articles on the abolition of political empowerment and the reintroduction of the presumption of innocence. Why is that, ladies and gentlemen? But, with this in Chapter IV of the bill, the government is pounding and pounding down in practice basic neoliberal ideologies and practices served by all the previous governments and their political staff - one of which is still in this Chamber - and which removes the fundamental consequences of the barbaric experiments by the Memorandumian Governments at the expense of workers. The pretext of neoliberalism, already in the 1990s, culminating in the Memorandum of Understanding 2010-2014 with an alibi of the so-called state modernisation, the discharge of "state" and the demolition of public sector workers, has led to the conscious, deliberate deterioration and shrinking of the public sector and the social state, in particular, and the emergence and scandalous strengthening of the state-owned parasitic private sector. If something was finally increased and overcrowded over the past twenty-five years, it is precisely this state-run sector and not the public sector, as they have been trying to convince us all these years by the previous governments and their 'pads'. It was therefore necessary to invent and cultivate the myth, the great lie of the superfoodstuff public sector, the so-called civil servants, who were repeated here today. However, this great lie has been abstracted by official figures from international organizations such as EUROSTAT, the OECD and Greek. On this day, I will submit to the minutes some scientific studies in the context of the European Commission's 'competition report', signed by four European university researchers and carried out for thirty years, from 1982 to 2002, and compared the number of civil servants in seventeen European Union countries, the percentage of civil servants in all the employees of each country, as well as government expenditure as a percentage of GDP. It is clear, as you will see, from the Minutes that Greece was in 1982 and 1992, ten years later, in the 16th place in the seventeenth countries, with the lowest percentage of civil servants in all - and indeed with the oldest civil servants - and just in 2002 it was in the 14th place. Imagine where he was in the years of the memorial. That was not enough, however, for the demolition of the public sector, but the worker had to be slandered, intimidated and persecuted. In particular, young people, scientists with an appetite for work, faced a hostile government, both in the public and private sectors, because the prisoners did not need to apologize for the real problems, the quality problems that the public sector had, the complexity, corruption, inefficiency and bureaucracy. They were throwing them all to so - called many workers, who even slandered as a slow payroll, lazy, and so on. Let us not forget that public cuts were accompanied by crocodile tear rivers for how unfair private workers were. Finally, in these crocodile rivers, we all drowned our standard of living. At the same time as the Samara - Venizelos government depreciated public services, dismantling the social state, it had a thousand hundred and seventy - three poster officials and advisors against five hundred and fifty - four of today’s government. So when the Memorandum Governments were unjustly fired with ridiculously false arguments only to declare to creditors their subjection, their indulgence, because it would save public resources, because at the same time it was avoiding the mass retirement of many officials - one understands why today New Democracy and PASOK cannot be understood, - and they have left this Chamber - the restoration of injustices, the reintegration of unjustly dismissed, at least partly and in a first phase, as Mr Katrugalos said, who promised to follow other such bills to restore and other unjustly fired. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two more minutes, Mr President. Thus, under this draft law, the government sends a message of respect for work, outlines the new public in need of the place, a public free of complexity, corruption, partisanism, anxieties, lack of planning and hierarchy of needs, bureaucracy - servant of the big private sector. It needs a public sector with merit, justice, democracy, an effective servant of the people and a key lever of productive reconstruction, development for the benefit of the public interest. Of course, the road to this objective is a long one. One final comment on the amendments. It has no right to opposition, in particular the Qualified Opposition to complain about the amendments. The people know why - I will not explain here - after having attended many meetings, which at the last minute, even in ignorance of their own rapporteurs, have brought photographic amendments. But since the country is in a state of emergency, the amendments which solve problems for the benefit of the people are, in my view, welcome. In addressing the ministers of the government, I call on them to take advantage of any possibility of tabling amendments, in order to solve immediate popular problems, many of which do not have budgetary costs. And since we have referred to the amendments and because tax declarations are to be tabled over the next period, I would expect the government to table amendments on urgent tax matters which will alleviate the Greek people, such as the exemption from agricultural subsidies tax, but also the abolition of the HPAI for the 1915s, which are both the main election commitments of the government. And since I have signed a number of amendments, I would just like to refer to one of them, which has not yet been accepted by the Minister. It is the amendment to restore the unjust and unconstitutional dismissal of two hundred and fifty-eighty-eighties of "GREEN S.A.", who were hired on 1 September 2009 and with the resolution and liquidation of the company in December '10's, were fired without a new body for the work they did. What did these workers do? They were responsible for mapping agricultural land electronically, creating and monitoring the mapping background, which is essential for a reliable farm register, on the basis of which farmers received subsidies. Unfortunately, after the liquidation of the "GREEN S.A." and the dismissal of the workers, all this work was given to the private sector. It is therefore a typical example of how previous governments meant growth. For these reasons, Minister, we will expect you to think again about accepting the re-entry of these workers, because not only will public spending be reduced, but there will also be more transparency in subsidies. And because it is a specialised scientific staff, necessary for the country's productive reconstruction, we would expect a further bill to make this restoration. Thank you and apologies for the misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Sunday. Ms Maria Canelopoulou is called in Vima, followed by Ms Christina Tahiau and the intervention of the Minister Mr Panagiotis Nikoloudis will be followed. And an announcement to this House for a visit from beautiful Santorini. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIAOS VENIZELOS", eighteen students and students and two trainers from the Elementary School of Theras. Good progress and health! The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Canelopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill which we are trying to reintroduce the debate on public administration to basics and self-evidents. In the political and ideological struggle for the role of the public today and our efforts to reorganise and restore gross injustices that have taken place in the last five years of the extreme neoliberal attack, I am tempted to make a little mention of how the communiqué faces this piece of legislation. I quote: “With such a “democracy of administration”, as the bill is signed, Greece will unfortunately not stand by, no negotiation with our partners will save us from our own ideas and customer dependencies.” It could also be understood as self-criticism if it was not signed by the current Parliamentary Representative of Major Opposition and by the former Minister, solely responsible for the pogrom of redundancies, available and effectively dismantling public structures, Mr Constantine Mitsotakis. I remind those in here who have a weak memory: Law 4024/2011, pseudonymous salary, reserves, i.e. redundancies. Law 4057/2012, repealing the presumption of innocence, disciplinary tolls, advance redundancies. Law 4172/2013, availability, mobility, specified redundancies. Law 4250/2014, a horror of evaluation, where 15% of the evaluated will be fired, a horizontal control over the certificates for the conversion of contracts so that the private law of indefinite duration of public sector workers will be the easy tank for redundancies in order to achieve the Memorandum Objectives. In addition to all this? Three years of development have been lost, pay has been frozen, socially-oriented public bodies have closed down - the Labour House Agency, the School Building Agency - have been lost overtime, travel costs, insurance rights and so many other things that, for reasons of time, I do not mention. Ideals! Obviously all this happened in the context of the transformation of the country into an economic protectorate. Evidently, the public sector had to be dissolved, every labour right to conquer in the public and private sectors had to be destroyed. Obviously, a regime of fear and labour terrorism had to be established. Obviously, the public had to go back to the darkest times, where the initiative was controlled and the rushphetti and the war of the day was the norm. A modern productive and efficient public sector canceled the beautiful account of the Memorandum Reforms. Fortunately, thousands of workers, from whom, for example, I mention the fighting cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, the school guards, the municipal police officers, the managers of the universities - I know that some are hurt by listening to it, I know so well - and so many others have shown the limits of this policy. Today, with the draft law which is being debated, which is very much criticised by so-called reformists - to paraphrase the poet 'When I hear reform, my human meat smells' - I say today, I am saying, the basic principles of law, equality and democracy are being restored. For example, it is clearly defined when the institution of the political contingency, which has been used in the past as a strike mechanism, can be used as a coronary and unconstitutional. In the last few years of the memorandum, as noted in the explanatory statement, this institution has been imposed six times, that is, as many as forty years ago! Ideals! Disciplinary law rationalises and restores the presumption of innocence during the disciplinary procedure. I can prevent some of the premeditated and systemic misconcentrations and sometimes slanders: by this provision we obviously do not talk about defects of extreme misconduct, where the institution of the fair holiday is still in force, but about the self-evident. The trade union, social and political action of a civil servant cannot be accused of being a priori and risk being put on a holiday or made redundant to participate in a demonstration or a collective process. All the official provisions that led to the availability - dismissal of thousands of public sector workers and the establishment of whole services and branches that were, at night, deleted from the work charter are being abolished. Article 42 of the EC Treaty is hereby repealed. 4250/2014, whereby essentially the review of the lawfulness of the conversion of contracts into contracts in an indefinite period, under the provisions of d.d. 164/2004 led to an unprecedented hostage scheme of some 40 000 public sector workers. It is clear that the reduction of costs, the savings of resources and the contested primary surplus had to come from the usual suspects and not from the lists that were lost to the right and left in the elbows or were occupied in drawers. While, first of all, we are receptive to criticism, it is important to see who is being exercised. We are being blamed for rhetoric and a client state by those who ruled with compass and dream clienteles, rosés, baptisms and bars, our own children! They're blaming us for incompetence and ignorance. Who? The skilled and knowledgeable who have led the country to its present situation. It took them forty years to do it and they're asking us to fix it now! Ladies and gentlemen, today we need more than ever to change the model for publicity and its reconstruction. With the draft legislation under discussion, we are grasping the need for radical changes, for the correction of injustices, we are introducing the first and essential part of the planning for the reorientation of the public for the benefit of social needs, while at the same time eliminating structures, logic and functions of the client state. We're doing this. We strengthen the institutional memory, we put the beginning of the end to the memorial paradox, we move from grey dystopia to the colorful eutopia of democracy. It's hard. It's true. But we're trained. Our motto was always "the higher the fence, the higher the salt". We'll make it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Kanellepoulou. Mr. Christina Tachiaou, Member from Potami, will be followed by Mr. Panagiotis Nikoloudis. I suggest from the next speaker, Mr Lappa, that the speeches be confused in six minutes. There are thirty-five colleagues left. In order for everyone to speak - there are two parliamentary representatives left - by Mr Lappa and then by speaking time will be six minutes. Mrs. Tachiau, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. I'm outta here! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with the obvious fact that the government is facing minor issues, while not touching any of the major problems of the administration. Mr Carcassoulis mentioned features - I hope you have noticed that - the example of fire protection. According to the existing provisions, thirteen bodies are co-ordinated to cleansing the dry dryer from the peri-urban forests. In a country with a huge need to solve bureaucracy issues that keep it captive, you once again choose to put the problem under the table. We are dealing with secondary, avoiding touching the main, the flesh that eats it in the country, the pluralism and the low quality of the laws, the wickedness and the advisability, which find a very nice way of expressing last minute amendments and photographic provisions - a great deal has already been said, let us not say much more about it again - and the related responsibilities, so that no one has the ultimate responsibility entirely, the lack of targeting and regulatory direction and the depreciation of the potential. As far as public administration staff are concerned, Mr Karcassoulis stressed that very worthwhile officials currently serving in public administration remain untapped due to the absence of a political incitement and highlightation of the most worthy. Let me tell you my experience. As a new Member, now that I have been elected, I have had too many proposals from civil servants for posting in my office. Do you know why? As they say to me, "Where I am, I do nothing, I am decommissioned, I am decommissioned." It is worthwhile and capable of telling how, after a change of government or general secretaries or heads and directors, they were found "stamping", as we say. And as for the civil servants I chose, as you saw them, dear Minister, at your Ministry, I saw them in my office. Three months since I made the applications and the secondment procedures have still not been completed. Every little bit and a little I hear of a signature that didn't go in, for a card that was lost somewhere, for a "so is the public" delay and it goes on to say. Today, May 5th, do you know what advice everyone is giving me? "You can go to the office of Katrugalos to finish, or nothing will happen." But my purpose is not now that I have found you, Mr. Katrugale, to do my little favor! That's not the case. I would like to point out to you how the citizen suffers from bureaucracy, because this is happening all the time. The citizen is afflicted by the pluralism, the lack of a final text, i.e. the codifications of the laws, the lack of targeting and everything else, because the people are inclined to catch the heads of government, to talk to the Director, to ask the official, to take the file, to take it to another address, to call in numbers that do not respond, to run and to lose working hours, to which I think everyone knows them very well. And of course you know very well how much corruption is giving rise to this whole system and how much longer it favours. There are targeting states. Canada, for example, has taken huge steps in the field of civil service and has set itself the target in twenty years, in 2035, for the citizen never to have to come in direct contact with the civil servant. This will be done via video conference if needed. We in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, are in a situation where we cannot even vote electronically. It'll happen later in the denominations and you'll see. We did earlier and lost an entire hour. Three hundred people together with the employees. Have these working hours been measured? In here, in the Greek Parliament, we cannot move on to self-evident. Why is that? And that I can't understand, and those I asked didn't exactly understand. We have the e-cards. We're stalling. This is pointless, inappropriate, and it's a little masochist. But let us leave this House and look at investment, for example, on the water roads, in order to fly the seaplanes. This will contribute to the tourism product in the national economy. So far, one has just been given, because it takes six, seven, eight, months - no one knows exactly how many - in order for the services to coordinate. The officials of the Ministry of Tourism must find time to go to autopsy, to find the routes, to consult the porters, one cannot, the other cannot get sick and then the fourth agency can also be able to do so. Then the weather can go off and they'll be delayed another month. The process is that. You know her, I guess. We are the country with more than twenty thousand environmental impact studies per year. Of these some thirteen thousand are evaluated by the regions, seven and a half thousand by the decentralised administrations, about six hundred fifty by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Austria, a country similar to Greece, which is a model in environmental protection, on average, has about twenty-three environmental impact studies. The Great Britain thirty-four. Most of them have France, that is, three thousand three hundred sixty-seven a year, about six times the number from Greece, although France has six times the population of Greece. That's the situation. You understand what this means and at the level of competitiveness of our country, not because the other countries have lower wages, but because, among other things, they have other procedures and less bureaucracy. That's what we need to kill, bureaucracy. Instead, we close our eyes and we owl it. The river's been ready for months. Prior to the reform of the public administration, it has submitted a complete plan. We see, however, that even the reasoning chosen to circumvent the 'GENERAL' - as is being circumvented in some cases - is based on bureaucracy, the lack of agreement between the body and the auditor but with documents, which is causing delays in payments. As you said, to stimulate liquidity in the market to override it. But, if you'll excuse me, can't they get online? Does it really have to be done with documents and these delays exist? It's unheard of. It's a refusal to reform. It's counter-reforming, no matter how much this thing is baptized by you. Do you want to do something for the public administration? Let me tell you. Listen to just a few shortcomings. There are ministries that have not entered the union because some buildings have not entered. Very often the systems that are not upgraded fall. There are department managers who forbid employees to reply by e-mail, because they are afraid of what will be written on e-mail. There are scattered protocols. Correspondence between the Ministries shall be made in writing. No consolidations have been completed in staff management areas. But of course nothing will happen if there is no proper evaluation. Of course, nothing will be done with party secretary-general. So you can't fix the command. We insist on the positions of permanent Secretary-General in some areas. Another time we'll say that. However, I would like to refer to what has been said about the amendment on the Secretary-General. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Mr Gas, I think, has asked, if possible, the divisions who will be chosen in the positions of the General Secretariats not to have Proficiency, he says, have Lower, because they are great people and imply that the great people once did not take Proficiency, but that they lived with Lower. Now we understand that we are talking about people who, in fact, do not have it, as they do, because if anyone took Lower twenty-five years ago, today they do not have it. So we're talking here again about lack of qualifications. We are talking about a choice which is not the criterion of the other person being qualified, but in many other ways. That's all I had to say. Thank you very much. I'm covered by colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Tachiau. The Minister has the floor, Mr Panagiotis Nikoloudis. From you, Minister, I will remove two minutes from both Members a minute. So you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u198	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I shall mention, ladies and gentlemen, in Amendment No 106, which attempts, with some minor interventions to the actually adopted Law 4320/2015, the operation of the Anti-Corruption General Secretariat to be made more effective. And I want to do so with the greatest honesty and clarity, which I believe is the way in which each of us has an obligation to express their thoughts when it comes to the Greek Parliament. The interventions, which are being attempted by this amendment, are concise and concise: The Court of Auditors Commissioner and the Financial Control Agency set up by law in the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption are hereby repealed. This is because we are indeed a small ministry and a very small administrative unit and we are covering our needs from the respective departments - that is, the Commissioner of the Court of Auditors - at the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, it is laid down in the amendment which is being attempted that the payroll costs of the staff of the General Secretariat are incurred by the institution from which they come. And thirdly, it is laid down that special advisers and special associates of the General Secretariat will be paid in accordance with Article 55 of the BC. 63/2005. I note, incidentally, that we have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State in order to introduce this amendment. I could therefore confine myself to the absolute coverage of legality and tell you that these are the amendments which we have tried to make and that I am satisfied with. And I would. I would have confined myself to this minimum, if it had not happened to hear two observations - objections which at least I received as reproach from two Members. The objections - remarks - were as follows: The first one said: 'But it did not dry the ink into this law and now you are bringing us an amendment?' The second was: "But, with amendments you are trying to fill out the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption with new politicians, friends and faces, so doing carves and rushphetological recruitments?". I accept the first of the two reproaches, because reality imposes on me. Indeed, the law was only recently passed a few months ago, and I am trying nothing but to justify why it was done. The excuse I have to say to this House is that it has for the first time attempted to establish this Ministry and to establish the Secretariat. It was therefore necessary to see how it would work in practice. And when we saw that some things had to be corrected, we had the courage to pursue an amendment to correct it. So I accept it in principle. I do not, however, accept the second reproach at all, because it is indeed out of reality. And it is unrealistic, because the definition of thirty employees at the General Secretariat is not done with the amendment. It was with the law. No one has noticed what the amendment says. What does the amendment say? I have the courage and the obligation to reveal to you what he says. It says that of the thirty, the fifteen who will be advisers of the Secretary-General will be rewarded according to the President-in-Office's decree I mentioned. In other words, the choices we had were as follows: to be compensated for the status of the General Secretariat of the Government, which was higher than the one set out in the amendment. Secondly, they should be rewarded with the regime applicable to the Minister's advisers, which is also higher. It is not less than the remuneration laid down in the single wage. We have the courage to say this clearly. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, hire such low-wage consultants who will have added value to what the Secretary-General himself defines. Who can hire with such a low fee? We in this government, to which I am a part, are not content with legitimacy. We also have a feasibility, which is permanently aimed at serving the public interest. If, ladies and gentlemen, one makes an overall assessment of all the three amendments, one will see that there is a cost burden on the officials' salaries, but from the two other changes we are abolishing the entire office of the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, which will have two, three secretaries. And we make sure that we do not have a clearing service, because the employees will be rewarded by the agency they come from. We will see that in the end, in fact and in fact, we have savings in human and economic resources. We, I repeat, are not content with legitimacy. We have this direction, the service of the public interest in any way. And from this point of view, we will never deviate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u199	Thank you, Minister. Mr Spyridon Lappas has the floor. The following is Mr. Apostolos Karastasis and Mr. Nikolaos Friends. The Minister for Social Security will speak for two minutes to develop his amendment and, of course, we will continue. For our next colleagues, the time will be short in five minutes, so everyone can speak. Mr. Lappa, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have time here to read out the work we have done on public administration. We will confine ourselves to some comments and some balance sheets. I've been attending the entire House sitting since this morning. Listening to the speeches of some of the major opposition colleagues, I remembered two things, Minister. A phrase by Great Napoleon that said that "Illegality in politics is not a disadvantage" and a second that we lawyers of criminal law say. What we heard from the representatives of the New Democracy, which also contained a confession of errors and errors, some kind of self-criticism, that is, reminded me of what we call a "broken killer", which incriminates his victim because he was unable to defend himself. I have also been amazed to hear Mr Tassoula introduce a legal and political neo-colitism here in Parliament, who said that for the mistakes, omissions and sufferings of the Memorandum politicians it is not only those who ruled it, but also those who have opposed it. Only he didn't tell us their victims weren't responsible. It is a strange reasoning in political science that the historian will explore in the future and raise his hands if he does not raise anything else. I would like to ask Mr Tasoula, who is not here: can you tell us, Mr Tasoula, when you have ruled, whether we have submitted to you draft political or government decisions? When you say share the responsibility, share the cost of your memorial initiatives and policies, what exactly do you mean? Do you mean that we will change the constitutional and parliamentary framework which says that the government has responsibility for government decisions and initiatives? That's actually what he was telling us. I would also like to make a comment on something that I did not expect to hear from a legal authority of Mr Athanasios, who considered, Minister, that the term 'democracy' includes elements of insult, that it is an insulting term. I now reply to him when he sees us on television, because we do the same science, law, that the term 'democracy' internationally means precisely the substance and meaning of the Republic in this sense: its safeguarding and continuous enlargement, whether in the form of individual rights or in the form of state structures. That means, Mr Athanasios, 'democracy'. So he's right and perfectly compatible with political science. I have also heard Mr Dendia appraise all our legislative initiatives that we have taken since the day we are ruling. He didn't find any positives in any bills. He named the humanitarian crisis bill without finding anything consistent with humanity. He found no positive in the facility for payment of debts to the State. He found nothing positive about the humanisation of the penitentiary stores, but only kept the change in how Xero's detention took place. In a set of major initiatives and legislative provisions, it finds nothing positive. We ask them: was ERT reopening an old-fashioned request and a democratic need for the country, yes or no? With the same logic, we reach the current bill for which we are proud, Minister. We're telling you as SYRIZA MPs. Especially in your statement that this is the first step in a major initiative to change the Staff Code, but also to make substantial intervention in depth on the subject of public administration. So we are telling you that the New Democracy speakers have discovered intention - so they say, I have noted - to create a customer state. Who? When policy forty years - their own policy - is based on nepotism, anxiety, rousfetti and customer perception. Do you not hear, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, the impulses, pains and needs of large parts of society that you have caused? What a hypocrisy, I'd say! Unbelievable! In any case, the bill aims to reform public administration. I, as a legal officer, ask a question: what is the reform of the public administration in the Greek data? I would say that reform means modernising public administration, simplifying the structures and procedures followed, strengthening or collapsing or abolishing services, strengthening human resources skills, amending and modernising the public service evaluation system. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for such a reform that the public administration, which, admittedly, is the great patient of the Greek state, since all Greek citizens have experienced the public-sponsored reality, which consists of the following: problems and malfunctions, intense and unnecessary bureaucracy, overlaps, inefficiency and delays, incapable of addressing the incomplete performance. These all act as a brake on the proper functioning of the public administration with the result that there is a disproportionate operating costs for the Greek state. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, something out of text: All the services of the European Union and the OECD have assessed the costs of this public administration, the way it works, bureaucracy, pluralism, customer perception, 6.8% of GDP. So estimate about 7% of GDP to see the annual cost of this situation. I omit what I have written here, so that I can end up with the question of political empowerment. Well, New Democracy's speakers when they say that health claims are made in advance by the bill, do they not bother reading paragraph 4 of Article 22, Minister, where expressly public health is referred to as a reason for restricting the right to strike? But it's an express order. So what do they do when we talk about it? I have to tell you one more thing to close: the political commitment has been chosen over the last forty years six times. In four of these for irrelevant reasons, clearly as a strike mechanism. Only in the last four years - 2010-2014 - has it been chosen six times, that is, in forty years. And it was generally an option as a strike mechanism. And I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this bill is a start. The Minister said so, too. In fact, he used a very important phrase: 'This is a first aid bill'. This reminds me of a phrase, Minister, of Andrey Gide, 'Everything has been said, but since nobody is listening, we must start from the beginning'. And since it is the beginning of a great intervention in public administration, we must respond to our unjustly critics that we have as a beacon and as a guide to the Progoras 'All kind of human money' and not the meat machine of the memos which can be understood in the words 'homo homini lupus','man for man'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. My colleague, Apostle Karastasis, is called at Step. My colleague, Mr Nikolaos Friend, is next. It will be followed by a moment's intervention by the Minister, Mr. Army. And Mrs. Kyritsis will begin with the five-minute speech. You have the floor, Mr. Karastasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u202	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the great patient in our country is public administration. And he is weak because it was a political choice of all governments over the years to be a client of the political system. The neoliberal policy implemented, especially since 2009, was aimed at the smallest state. That's what they said. And this has brought about even smaller social states. The bill, as the Minister said, comes to cure problems and wounds brought by the monumental policies, annulment of the available resources, reinstate workers to the active service, such as local police and school wheelchairs, abolishing self-righteous holiday in Disciplinary Law. Let me now, Mr President, comment on a few articles in the bill which, in my opinion, deserve particular mention in today's debate. With Article 3, I think there is a very large section of public administration. It restores the presumption of innocence to the disciplinary process, which, in any case, is a pretext of the legal culture of any modern society. Article 6 on disciplinary misconduct shall in any event ensure that it does not constitute an inappropriate behaviour or unworthy or unworthy conduct for an official to conduct a trade union policy or social action. In Article 8, which deals with simplifying and speeding up the procedures for the recruitment of seasonal staff and project leasing contracts, I would like to make a proposal to achieve the simplification of these procedures and the elimination of bureaucracy, namely that a Ministerial Council act is not required for works lease contracts and fixed-term contracts for each category of staff, in particular OTAs and in particular for all social structures, such as nurseries, etc., as well as for any project or fixed-term contract in connection with co-financed operational programmes, such as the closure of the ESDP or the ETUC now or the 2014-2020 Programme. I shall refer to Article 10 on electronic identification for the 'citizens' card'. In my personal assessment, the institution of the 'citizens' card' must be dealt with in total for all citizens and all transactions with the public and not fragmented. A new platform needs to be designed as a linking program for all databases - technical science now possible - to the citizens, of course, by guaranteeing the protection of personal data. These databases will link a new identity that will be issued by the most reliable and for this purpose a public authority that is the police. The own-initiative search for supporting documents and the electronic issue of certificates, which is dealt with in Article 12, has been discussed several times and has been attempted by legislation since 1959. In order to be successful, this arrangement must be accompanied by a support programme. The implementation of this programme will identify weaknesses in the implementation of the regulations and oligopoies of those implementing them, so that the administration can correct them. Chapter 4 on the removal of injustices, the reintroduction of staff, mobility, as a whole, points out that, at least to a certain extent, those - unfortunately the weakest social groups - have been removed by horizontal removals of organic positions without evaluation. Of course, we should see, through possible accepted amendments that have been put into debate today, the question of those who have been vindicated in the courts or whatever is pending. In relation to Article 18, for the re-establishment of abolished branches and staff, I note that for school guards, as well as for school traffickers, a fixed position must be - as is apparent from the provisions of Article 101 of the Constitution - that for each function transferred - for example, to local government - the corresponding resources are transferred, which I would remind you are a fixed request from everyone. In addition, school guards, in addition to their duties, believe that they should also be involved in the preservation of other municipal areas, municipal buildings, children's playgrounds. I'm going to give a parentheses before going to comment on the next articles. Minister, a decision must finally be made on the recruitment of permanent staff to services covered by the fees, such as cleanliness. It is a measure which has no budgetary burden, and I think that in a next bill this issue should be resolved. I would like to make a proposal on Amendment No 81/29, which has been tabled. Insert the words ‘OTA Links, now FODs’. It is an issue that you know well and I think it is very important and must be done. I have reached Article 28, the last thing I want to do, which refers to the Decentralised Administration Coordinator. I think it is one of the issues that is a great section, although the relevant bill, as we have said, comes to heal things and does not intend to be a legislative regulation that will bring radical overturns to public administration. The establishment of the position of the Coordinator of Decentralised Administration is, at last, the principle of dismantling the senior positions of decentralised administrations from political groups. We are all aware of the works and the days of former nominations and how they were working, even until some time ago. But the Coordinators must be placed on the basis of clear evaluation criteria and procedures. This measure, of course - and I say it is very important - must be extended to the entire public administration, even to the Secretary-General of the Ministries. I think that Article 28 is an opportunity to redefinition democracy in public administration. Minister, as you said the bill is the beginning. It is the government's duty to bring about a new bill that will relieve the Greek people and completely hit red tape. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close my position as I started. The neoliberal policy, implemented particularly from 2009 until today, I said at the outset that it aimed at the smallest state. Really, was the no-state target? The modern age of the Middle Ages with the great businessman today, feudal man then and correspondingly the few paid workers today, serviles of the time? I say that the aim is the best state in the service of the people, no matter how large or small it must be. I think that is the aim of the bill, and that is why I shall vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Karastasis. Mr. Nikos Friends is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. We feel a little strange, of course, because we are not seeing the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK here. There's an explanation. They cannot afford to be here in the Chamber and to see what the results of public administration policy are and how the search for a smaller state, as they have said, has led to the dissolution of key social sectors in public administration. However, I would like to note something: today the government is fighting a critical battle. It's a critical day. We are close to the moment of truth, negotiating with the creditors, with the institutions. These are the meetings that are taking place today with the European Central Bank. We would expect all political parties to be here and to discuss, with our differences, at this critical moment, the outcome of the negotiation. If we were all here, it would be a sign of unity of the Greek people. But the two apologists of the memorandums, the PASOK and the New Democracy, preferred to leave, giving another signal. It's not about public administration. It concerns what we call, not unfairly, 'the internal troika sends out a common road signal to the troika'. And it is a pity that they could, even at the moment, give another content to their presence as Opposition in this House. They're locked in on the line of the memorandum. Others are smarter. The public has worked for many years as a private therapist. There was no publicity for the public, public for the Greek citizen. There was public interest in private interests. This is a general finding. The parties organized by supply and public works, anxiocracy, party choices, right-wing state, green-fruitism, but also other social behaviours, not only political, which he embraced and protected the client state, constituted a hideous public, a public that was often strong and not a servant. On this reality of a dismantled concept of public policy, a privatized public policy, stepped on the memorandum, neoliberal aggression. The aims of the memorandum, neoliberalism, were to reduce the state and, in particular, the social state, were to dismantle labour relations both in the public and private sectors. However, everyone knows that the pilot - in all societies, not only in Greece - of industrial relations, where because of the specific nature of the employer, which is the public, may have more social achievements, is the public. And then these social conquests were extended - this is the history of Europe and the whole world - and in the private sector So when rights begin to collapse in the public sector, it is clear that there would also be a collapse of rights - and in a more painful way because there is also the issue of unemployment there - in the private sector. So the social automation on which the Memorandum of Understanding then attempted to create a social confrontation, a civil society, where some people beat them and call them "the saved self," started from the public. And every night the 20 a.m. cards informed us that other 'unlawless' and other intents and other mobilising people were out of the Memorandum. It is obvious that the government's initiative to restore legality in the public sector is the prerequisite and first step to restore legality in the private sector. Is the demagogy that "those who lose their jobs in the public sector lose it from a guaranteed employment framework, while in the private sector they have not lost it and have lost it," does it not mean that those who lost their jobs in the public sector have been in the private sector for so many others? Oh, no. The reality is different. That is what all the economists say: for a post lost in the public sector at least three jobs were lost in the private sector. This is explained on the basis of economic science. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is therefore clear that the battle currently being fought by the government does not concern the public sector as a whole. Public sector reform is urgently needed. Development cannot be achieved by maintaining the state machine in the situation of the large patient, without mobility, merit, co-operation, without institutions of labour participation. Don't be afraid of words. Let us not forget those words and those concepts, since we are, of course, redefining them from wrong practices. Without this whole grid, where, first and foremost, without mediation of trade union bureaucracy, workers will become aware of their participation in the public and private sectors, the country cannot operate on a development path. Without the worker at the centre of development, without man and his needs at the centre of development, there can be no development for the benefit of society. That is the message today and this promise is made by the Left-Government Government, the Government of social salvation within the unfavourable framework of negotiation with creditors. We would expect there to be a hand of cooperation and consensus. But it didn't seem. It is obvious that collapsing old communism cannot get used to the idea that there can be a way out without it. But without him there can be a way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Philly. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Militaryis, followed by the honourable Mr. Kritsis, Psarrea, Papanatsiou, Tentonidou and Gaitanis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u206	Be well, Mr. President. I wanted to say this, that it is a historic day today, not only because the Deputy Minister for Administrative Reform together with the Minister for Home Affairs is bringing to Parliament tonight and a bill is being passed this evening, which will be a law of the state, which opens the way for democratisation of the public administration - and it is the first step, as Mr Katrugalos said - but above all because he solves two issues. The first issue has to do, Mr President, - because you know that we had fought together with other Members in the previous composition of Parliament - by abolishing the possibility of the government in question making political strikes. The workers' struggles are vindicated and our struggles are vindicated as a left, as a whole, as a whole, in the whole of the Left in the battle we have fought to abolish this inspirational inspiration. I think it's an important moment. We had given evidence in his battles in the previous parliament and in the social struggles, that after 1974 he had become fourteen times by governments political strikers. This hunger inspiring measure had been enlisted in all four years of the memorandum, in which from fourteen times, that is, half, was used by the Memorandum Governments at the expense of educational preventives - you remember it very well before their strike began - at the expense of port workers, at the expense of OTA workers, at the expense of metro workers and fixed transport and in a number of sectors of the economy. This is an important moment because this is being abolished. And it is also the fulfilment of an election commitment, but also the vindication of the struggles of the labour movement and the political forces of the Left that we fought against it. The second reason is why the struggles which these four years have fought against the availability that led to redundancies in the public sector are justified. Because the troika called for 'blood' - political, social - redundancies and previous Memorandum governments had met these demands. Therefore, the fights of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, the school guards, the sacked teachers, those made free of charge from the insurance funds, the public administration and a number of other workers who have fought this great battle. I am very grateful to Mr Katrugalos for accepting the amendment tabled immediately by the Members of SYRIZA Leucasos and Stathas, as well as the four Members of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, Thanasis Bardalis and Manolis Synthrakis, seeking to return immediately through the re-establishment of posts and branches in the insurance funds, the hundreds of seventy, who have been made redundant. I say thank him very much...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u207	Say, Minister, the number of amendments you have just mentioned to be taken up by colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u208	It is the general number 66 and specific number 14/24-2015 of the Communist Party of Greece and a corresponding amendment tabled by Mr. Leucakos and Mr. Stathas on behalf of SYRIZA. I say that it is very important that the Minister accepts this amendment because it enables us immediately, within a few days, to return a hundred and seventy dismissals of availability to three major insurance funds, IKA, OGA, OAU and OAED. Given the lack of staff in the insurance funds, the suffering of workers and insured persons and the waiting time for pensions, this measure is valuable to us. Secondly, I wanted to say, Mr President, that we have tabled with the co-legislative ministers Amendment No 87 and a specific number of 34 in the short term. I'd just like to say two words about her. With the proposed amendment, the Fund of Greek Sugar Industry is merged with the EIB. It is a request from their Federation on the basis of a decision of their General Assembly - the insured and pensioners of this Fund. They have made their decision since August 2013 and we are fulfilling this consistent request from the insured and pensioners. They are guaranteed themselves and I think it is a good solution. With the second paragraph of the amendment, we are extending the possibility of using two sub-accounts that operate with economic and management autonomy in the AAGE to the large account. One sub-account has been formed from reservations made in the main pensions of pensioners, from 3-10% for those receiving basic pensions over 1,400 euros. It was a Memorandum Law, and on that basis these reservations were made so that there could be deficits in the main insurance funds. We are giving an extension to the government's ability to use, if necessary, some of this sub-account by 31-12-2018. Then, as you know, Mr President, he goes to the AAA's regular pigeon. That's where this money is going, which is for the new generations and they can only be exploited from 1-1-2019. It is also possible that the Government may use up to 31/12-2018 the ratio for which it has been established and the second smaller sub-account operating with financial and management autonomy in the CDE, which are reservations on the supplementary pensions of the insured, again by a Memorandum Law, which is made in order to cover possible deficits, if necessary, from that account of the ancillary funds. We also give the opportunity there until 31-12-2018 and then go to the AAGE. A number of criticisms have been heard, not above all here, Mr President, but in announcements that came out of PASOK. I saw one Sunday night and I didn't answer. I did not reply because I have also informed the House at a previous meeting, giving me clarification requested by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, but also because they also distort the truth in writing in the communication, Mr President, that the government is breaking the AAGE's pigeon. You know very well that it is false, inexperienced and hypocritical, because the AAGE money is the account in which 4% of VAT revenues are collected, from 10% of the revenues from privatisation and from 10% of receipts from social resources. It's 3.1 billion euros. It's in the Bank of Greece's special chapter and not just we touch it, but no one has the right to touch it, because it is intended from 1-1-2019 to form a reserve for the new generations and it has nothing to do with this. It has nothing to do with it. And because it also leaked to journalists, Mr President, before I came to me there were massive phones, that the government is preparing to put its hands on this large pound of 3.1 billion, to say that there is no intention of doing so, that there is no legislative act and that these provocations should finally be stopped at the expense of the government. And for the hypocritical nature of the PASOK communication - the New Democracy said nothing, because it knows - to say that it participated in the previous government in a selected member of PASOK, Mr Kegeroglu, who was in the Ministry of Labour as the State Secretary of State, when Mr Brutsis in December 2014, Mr President, used EUR 150 million from the first sub-account to cover OAU deficits, which is a main insurance fund and EUR 50 million from the second sub-account.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u209	For 'Help at Home'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u210	And while he was in the government, he was in the Ministry of Labour and they know it, and while we as opposition then said that there is no problem, because these sub-accounts for this purpose are - so we said then - he still had the political courage on Sunday night to make a statement that we are breaking the AAA account. I shall end, Mr President, by paragraph 3. There was a debt of the EIF, the Single Auxiliary Staff Fund, to the TAPIT, the Private Staff Regulations Fund, 50 million. At my initiative as a competent Minister, a compromise had been made on how it would be repaid. We are also covered by legislation. It's in line with both funds and this arrangement has begun. With the last paragraph we allow occupational insurance funds to be included in the method of collecting contributions for workers from enterprises in these ancillary funds by means of the public revenue collection code procedures to ensure that these revenues are collected. Finally, with paragraph 5, Mr President, we are assimilating provisions applicable to insured mothers with minors and disabled children to the SME EIF which has four branches than you know. We are assimilating it for injustices to be lifted and for uniform rules to be applied in the same way. Finally, I wanted to inform the House and to submit to the Minutes that yesterday, as far as you know, I had to send a letter to the Greek Ambassador in Berlin to give the German Parliament. There are discussions tonight and there are too many things. It sounds like Greek pensioners get the biggest pensions in Europe. I have had to de facto, Mr President, and I have sent a letter to inform Greece that the average main pension is EUR 664, that the average supplementary pension is EUR 168,40, that 45% of the pensioners receive pensions below the poverty line, and 60% below EUR 700. I wanted to describe the situation in which pensions have taken place in our country since the Memorandum of Demolition. Let me explain what I'm saying today. Apart from the fact that it is a matter of values, of the principles of our programme, of programming commitments that we will not make reductions in pensions as a government alone, that they have been demolished, of absolute poverty, of hunger for all these years, we will not give up, Mr President, and we will not sign an agreement with the country's creditors and institutions which will lead to even greater work and insurance in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u211	You must also present the letter, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u212	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u213	It is important that your commitment is not to be affected by the great AACC that is about to take the n. 3655/2008 to support the pensions of the new generations from 1-1-2019. Of course, what you said about the political backing. As you well know, and the present Minister for Administrative Reform, our country is the only Western European country that has been included in the blacklist of countries that have violated the strike provisions, that is to say, it has used the political recruitment as a means of collision and stifling strikes. In this sense it is important that you table the letter to the German Parliament. Thank you. Here comes my colleague Mrs. Kritsis. As I have already mentioned, Mrs Fishrea, Papanacatsiou, Tentonidou are coming. You're in the circle of five-inch boys. Mrs. Kritsis, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the final straight for the vote on the bill on the democratisation of public administration. It is a bill highlighting what happened in the past five memorandum years in public administration at the expense of society itself, public goods and services, at the expense of civil servants. It was an authoritarian, anti-democratic reflection of a hard neoliberal character aimed at not rationalising and justice, not more rapid and dignified service to the citizen, it did not aim to make citizens easier access to public goods, and in no case did it improve the same public goods. Similarly, despite heavy announcements, it did not promote a fair way of evaluating structures and public officials serving them. In the five memorial years public, like almost all sectors, was blown up in the most immoral way. The aim was to reduce public goods and citizens' rights themselves and to deliver public services to businesses and interests, an undemocratic, authoritarian counter-reformation with victims of people, families, young children, students. That is to say, all the weight of the crisis has fallen on the shoulders of the most vulnerable layers. In the fire, cleaners, school guards, multi-qualified teachers, technical high school and OAED schools. It all became fertilizers to bloom the profits of a few individuals. Five years after the imposition of the memoranda, real objectives have appeared throughout them and will appear more and more as the veils of mass deception will actually be prevented. The dangerous unification operation of an entire society by civilian staff and systemic media has come to an end. Ladies and gentlemen, to serve these objectives, as I have said before, the most cynically dangerous to society has been implemented. First, an attack on the moral decency of the civil servants themselves and their work, announcing their reactions and mobilizations, depreciating collective action and ultimately targeting them for all the sufferings of the Greek state. Secondly, the depreciation of the State itself as the subject-matter of economic activities, property rights, public works and services had to be encouraged. The public had to be disarmed from any possibility of intervention and financial regulation for the benefit of society, since, in the dogma of the previous governments, all of them were regulated by the miraculous market. Thirdly, authoritarianism and intimidation, the order of personal services, which is exceptionally permitted under special conditions in our Constitution, were used as a strike mechanism. The figures in the report are revealing. Fourthly, the hardening of the Disciplinary Law of Public Officials was followed, which abolished the presumption of innocence. No real reform or modernisation has been carried out in the public sector over the years and, of course, no real evaluation of workers and structures. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the signature of the bill by the Minister as a draft 'first aid' bill. Indeed, a bill cannot solve all the public administration's problems, i.e. to resolve and correct all the illnesses of a public system which has been structured and operated distortly over the past few years and, on the one hand, to correct all the injustices that the Memorandums have accumulated on the backs of civil servants and officials. But it was clear that the bill aims to directly correct the most outrageous injustices regarding political recruitment, the availability, the famous mobility, the injustices of the Disciplinary Code, that is to say, the re-entry and the re-establishment of the necessary bodies. At the same time, it makes the first important steps towards rationalising and modernising public services with a view to harnessing the monster of bureaucracy, which has not only been reduced in recent years, but has become gigantic. Finally, let me make a statement. From the discussions which have so far taken place in the House on all the bills that have so far been promoted, we find the anguish of the representatives of the previous government, an anguish which unfortunately seems to be shared with the lenders, that the spectacular work carried out in previous years at the expense of the public administration is collapsed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just one more minute. I give you a typical example. On the last day of discussion in the plenary of the ERT bill, we were honoured by the President of PASOK, not, of course, to contribute to the debate on public service broadcasting, nor, of course, to apologise to the Greek people for the cover offered by his black Mr Samaras. He came and swinged the finger, asking emphatically whether the lenders and the partners would leave us. He was of course referring to the red lines that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has put into and insists on. With a tiresome and revealing perseverance various known officials - unknown officials and circles proclaim that the government should not harm the legal arsenal set up in the Memorandum years. And they insist that all philosophical initiatives are unilateral actions. Why are they not denounced by the leaderships of the New Democracy and PASOK? So let us answer Mr Venizelos' question. Whether they leave us or not, what is essential for the dignity of our people, we will implement them. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we have to vote on in a few hours is a first step in the reconstruction of the public on new democratic bases. It is a first step towards restoring its real content to the concept of a citizen-focused public, the notion of a government that makes a decisive contribution to the country's legs, the notion of a state that has a leading role in the country's productive reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Kritsis. Mrs Eleni Fishrea has the floor. My fellow Members can also speak from their seat in order to obtain time. Mrs Fishera, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u216	Thank you. Good evening. It seems that the bill cannot have an opponent, not only in the Chamber, but above all in the large social majority. The imported bill, like the one voted on the reopening of the ERT, in line with the forthcoming Labour Law, is a necessary, decisive intervention to restore stable working relations in the public and private sectors, to overthrow basic neoliberal choices of the troika, lenders and part of the economic elite. They are still openly called into question and cancel the Memorandum, in which policies were implemented that sacrificed basic labour and social rights. They are, however, also a major vindication of workers' struggles in the public sector, such as school guards, teachers, cleaners. With the bill, we seek to strengthen the judiciary within the public and within the labour regime of workers in the public sector, as it is imperative to stop social automation and vengeance against workers and to focus on their work in the light of the social interest and not in the light of slavery, blackmail and discipline. That is why forced labour is abolished, or otherwise so-called strike-off, a institution as defined in Article 22(4) of the Constitution solely for the purpose of addressing war, natural disasters and natural disasters, which have been used in the near future to prevent workers and workers from strike. Greece has often been denounced in an international forum for this unconstitutional restriction of the strike right, according to the notorious ones, but this is also essentially irrelevant to the strike, d.d. 171974. This regulation allows the uninterrupted and legitimate functioning of the strike right, which has been regarded as a waste right in our country. Very important are the arrangements in Chapter 4 for restoring injustices to the public. The absolutely dangerous and unconstitutional provisions on availability, which in many cases led to full dismissal, according to the order of the troika and the memoranda, are abolished in accordance with Article 21 of the bill. In particular, in the case of dismissal of school guards, staff of OELs and teachers in particular, the branches, specialities and posts that have been removed and thus the possibility of reintroducing those who have been put in a process of dismissal of their post shall be reconstituted. The transfer of school guards from secondary education posts to compulsory posts, which had acted as a preamble to their dismissal, is also abolished. A "black" chapter on the labour regime in the public sector, which started in 2012 under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Manitakis and the Tripartite Government of New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR, now reaches a happy end. The changes in the Disciplinary Law of Public Officials under Article 3 are also very positive, and the abolition of extremely negative regulations that amended in 2012 the Civil Service Code, making it a vigilant piece of legislation. In particular, the imposition of a right to self-determination on the basis of the existence of a mere criminal prosecution or even a disciplinary complaint has been a serious measure which, without prejudicing a judgment and a judgment, has severely infringed the presumption of innocence for our civilisation. As a result, a significant number of civil servants have dealt with the practice or even the threat of a fair holiday, which has also been threatened by officials who complain about the bad texts of the administration or even exercise their trade union rights. In this draft law we propose a completely different philosophy and view, as far as the functioning of public and public workers are concerned. The demand for a public-oriented social interest conflicts with the former functioning of the state under the bipartisan New Democracy and PASOK as a field of power and not as a so-called enlarged state. It is also characteristic that the proportion of workers in the working population in Greece is below the Community average. However, it is also conflicting with the neoliberal concept that it has experienced over the past five years with the Memorandum Governments on the extinguishing and privatising of public services and on the unfair and avengeable perception of public officials and employees in the public sector, which has led to ruthless and unfair availability and redundancies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, I need one more minute. The five hundred ninety-five cleaners like school guards and teachers showed the face of this irresponsible measure of availability. Especially for the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, it emerged in the most up-to-date way that neoliberal policies are exercised in the oppressed and oppressed at all times and as a matter of priority. With women's unemployment at unprecedented levels, with the most high risk of poverty, the New Democracy and PASOK government fired themselves to save supposedly money, without in essence any financial benefit, five hundred ninety-five women - among the only women, single-parent leaders, widows, mothers. We are well aware that equality has been won by women's struggles. These games have been exploited to have an institutional framework for rights. At the same time, however, with the implementation of the most extreme neoliberal policies in practice, this framework is removed with women being unable to be economically independent, to be fired and to return to traditional roles under the dissolution of any social protection. That is what you have chosen with your policies. For us, the public sector is the one that must invigorately guarantee labour rights. It's the image of the working environment we want. Occupational deterioration in the public sector holds up to a working middle-age in the private sector where women first live. That is why the reintegration of sacked persons is the beginning for those who have been on the target of the memorandum policies. Because backwardness in workers' rights adds further unemployment and other inadequacies, because what a worker, a worker, loses it and everyone loses it. When labour legislation becomes a rag for one industry, others certainly follow. For us, the fired cleaners have shown in practice that the staff are also political. And in the history of women fighting among many names, in the names of Constantine Kuneva, Katerina Gulonia, one to one of the names of women cleaners is added. They didn't faint out of Cargiorg, Serbia for a year and a half. We won't faint either in front of any blackmail. Because words are easy. Five years here we have learned that horror is talking, she's alive, unspeakable and she's moving on. But the time comes for actions and we have shown ourselves to be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Fishera. I would like to inform the House that my colleague, Mr Salmas, Member of the NYPD, is applying for a travel authorisation from 6-5 to 8-5. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u218	The House approved the requested permission. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law quite important. Its aim is to democratise the public administration and restore the injustices that have occurred in the five years of monumental governance. It is a bill that will bring about the first blow to the memorial policies and injustices. It is a first principle both for restoring certain injustices and for better and more rewarding operation of the public. This bill is the first attitude of institutional interventions in the public sector and attempts to restore constitutional and democratic order. One of the most important things in this bill is the modifications to the political mission, as it remained in the confederation to call the requisition of persons and services. It is a measure used by the previous coronation, demonstrating the doctrine of zero tolerance over groups of workers who dared to raise their heads. In fact, until 2010, the four decades before that measure had been used as many times as it was used in the five years 2010-2014. It was used as a strike mechanism for bolt owners, OTA cleaners, metro workers, teachers, PPC workers. Thus, more specifically, the first chapter concerns the restoration of relations between the State and society. It restores the institution of ordering services only for the cases provided for in the Constitution, namely war, theory and not for the treatment of the strike. The streamlining of the Disciplinary Law, which stipulates, among other things, that trade union and social action is not an inappropriate behaviour for the civil servant. It restores workers' representatives to disciplinary boards and their presumption of innocence. Subsequent to the draft law, the mesh of the provisions relating to the institution of a fair holiday is abolished, as they infringed the constitutionally established presumption of innocence. The remaining chapters of the bill relate to a more flexible administration as well as to the restoration of the injustices of the memorandum policy, i.e. the re-uptake of school guards, municipal police officers, administrative staff of the HEIs and teachers of vocational education and the struggling cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, through three thousand nine hundred re-ups. At the same time, the six thousand undetermined successors of the ADP will be recruited, after a process of mobility has been carried out, as an incentive to strengthen services with great shortages. In addition to the re-introduction of state dismissals, it still contains important funds relating to the improvement of the daily life of citizens, such as the own-initiative search for services documents, the generalised horizontal communication between services. Finally, the bill attempts to reverse a state of counter-reformation in the five-year period of the memorandum and essentially the beginning of the return of normality to Greece. However, I would like to make a special mention to a group of our fellow citizens who are entitled to it. I am not saying 'they have won' because for all of us they have been morally and politically defeated for a long time. They are therefore not other than the struggling cleaners of the Ministry of Finance. And I want to stand here because this category of workers is an example of what you wanted and what you tried to do in the public sector, gentlemen, in the PASOK and New Democracy conflict. You wanted a public scapegoat, unhelpful, unusable and citizen-friendly. You found in the faces of the civil servants the atonement victims for your own policies. You guys did your public frickin' thing. You do not want to see a public private sector competitive because you had to follow, without study, your programme in the memorandum. But you had to privatise everything and fire everyone to catch the objectives of lenders. The public and the workers had to eject into the eyes of the world, to justify "all of us ate them" and to throw society into a particular social cannibalism. But some people did not lag their heads, some blackest days in the Memorandum, fought and resisted, to remind everyone and all of us that nothing goes lost, women, cleaners, who humbly started a race, closing a year on the street of Nikos, because so much they wanted to work and offer, in contrast to the then coexistence that they simply wanted, without saying what they cost, to give cleansing to private companies. What if it cost more? The example of Athens School of Philosophy last year, due to the rubbish left by the private company, leaving before the academic year ended, you probably liked it as a model. So you lied about their wages. You lied and tried to suppress them, as if they were the greatest enemy of the Memorandum of Peace. And it was. That's what you were right about. They were rightfully justified and you chased them in the Arena Ice. With bruises in the hands and broken legs he was there in the street, in the race, and they took the consciousness of the world with them. Something could defeat the blackness of the memorials. Beside them, school guards and professors stood with them, and together they managed to stand up to the most authoritarian government of post-multiple. Teachers, after their schools were merged, just fired! School guards, who you can do to them now, since the schools and the students were now on second degree? The numbers counted more. And yet these people have endured to remind us of what will say resistance, struggle, dignity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President, I shall conclude. We, these people, we trust them. They rose up and kept society standing and, finally, dignity gained fear and terrorism. The passion of these people for their work symbolises all the options and the changes we are trying to bring and we want to bring. Thank you. This bill makes the beginning of returning to the constitutional order of the counter-reformation of the memorandum, for a public productive and rewarding, which respects both the citizen and the worker, for a public democratic one. This is the beginning of a series of reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Papanaceu. This is followed by Mrs. Sunday Tentonidou, and under the chairmanship of Mr. Balafa who succeeds, Mrs. Haitani, Mr. Luczakos, Mr. Hadjilabrou and Mrs. Efstathia Georgopoulos - Saltari. Mrs. Tentondus, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin my speech completely unorthodoxly. I wouldn't even want to intervene. I would not even like to speak if, on the point of these days that this bill entered, I was not informed by my service that after three years of judicial proclamation I was entitled. But I can't go back. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis is away too. I also sent him a memo on my service excitement. Received this issue, inform Mr. Hapatzoglou, the missing OAS Commander, and beyond that, none. That's when I heard him speak of his worthyness, Mr. Mitsotakis. He was talking about suitable people in suitable places. I'm excited. I was consonant with the fact and I wanted to share my story. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In October 2011, I resigned from the post of Director of the OASH Central and Western Macedonia, because I had to understand the position of resigned MP, Thomas Robopoulos. I am voting against the Memorandum and, after my non-election, I return on 17 May to the OAED, where there were no new crises and positions. The position was covered by a deputy. I, with two degrees and a postgraduate degree, became a mere employee. I appealed as I had to obey my anointed system of justice. I didn't take it. I've been a Member for six months. I knew many MPs. I could come and see Mr. Brutsi. I didn't accept to do it. I appealed to the administrative court. I was right. Woe, though! The deported commander of the OAED, Mr.Apatzoglou preferred to put the third party in the rating order, which was a trade unionist of the AACC. Did you say, gentlemen, that we miss you, any of the trade unions we're going to bring back? Do you have anything to tell us about your trade unionists and their actions? So let us not spend too much ink and talk about the supposed integrity of the previous government in public. In this Chamber, we are finally listeners of works and speech spectators. The New Democracy, after all, has always had an ownership perception of a state: 'L'etat c'est moi'. This perception has affected beyond all the decisions he made on the public sector. The New Democracy and as a government, with its memorandum instruments, did not simply seal public administration. Unfortunately, he counterfeited it because he wanted a public anxiocratic, counterproductive, a public perpetrator and victim, with relations of absolute dependence on the party state. The evil, of course, was not the position of the "logues" in positions of responsibility. The biggest evil was the message that passed on to the rest of the employees, saying what? Belief, adequacy, honesty, efficiency, innovation, creativity is not important. It's only important that you have good relations with the party establishment. The public has thus been completely disdained. Civil servants were asked to apologize for everything. However, it certainly does not believe that strategic plans for health, education, employment, social policy and insurance have been made by civil servants. The previous government, playing the role of Pontius Pilate, handed over the civil servants to the bourgeoisie of social automation - old tested neoliberal recipe, all against everyone - so we arrived in a completely shrunk, depressed, impoverished public. Sociologists name the whole process as a myth of self - surprise prophecy. The public's dead. Long live the retarded private sector, a private sanctified sector, is passionately supported by the missionaries of neoliberalism. Private sector glorious field education, health, technical education, security, cleanliness. The so-called public reform was an absolute deregulation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And all this was done without planning, without planning, or rather it wasn't a blind date, as it looked to us at the beginning. It was an appointment with the protagonists of neoliberalism. Social policy has been demolished. The previous government defended the smallest state, dismissing the plebiscite civil servants, while on the back door it recruited armies of counsellors with party criteria. I have heard a colleague from the Opposition talk about speeding up the satisfaction of electoral clients. But the hanger's house doesn't talk about rope! We did not lose our individual memory or collective memory. My colleague told us that we were handing over public administration to trade unionists, forgeting that government trade unions were fully in charge of what was happening in the State. It was called the bill as first aid bill, because it offers first aid to the multi-harmed public and multi-harmed society, because it counteracts the disorganisation brought about by the memorial tactics and introduces reforms for the benefit of society, but always in cooperation with the civil servants who are not the enemies of the people. As for the list of Vice-Presidents - I am sorry that he is missing - the New Democracy list would like endless hours and many of Parliament's fullhearted words to be exhausted. I would like to return to my colleague, Mr Fitzgerald, and to say what he has said. He said to us: 'Your words do not match either your thoughts or your actions'. I would like to add: 'Your words do not match your thoughts either with your actions or with the needs of the society that understood you, which is why you turned your back'. I conclude by saying that we all know - and so do you - that the road is long and inconvenience. The poet says "Here, a reader, there is no way. The road opens it by walking." But we have already taken the first step, and we will continue at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Teddy. Mrs. Haitani has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, for this bill to restore the injustices of the Memorandum Policy, we have been attacked by Mr Mitsotakis that we are forming party customers. The previous period, on the pretext that the public was arrogant and that it had to be rationalised, labour relations were dramatically aggravated and we reached the disposal of redundancies. The social state was degraded to the altar of the profits of the ‘paracy’ of the market. Now that socially useful services are reconstituted and workers return, we are accused of changing the motto "Law is the law of the worker" with the "Law is the law of the client". Let me ask the following question, was Mrs Kuneva a client claiming that cleaners should pay the full wage and eat a vitriol in the face from private interests? Are the five hundred, ninety-five, four-four cleaners, who, even today, with a government committed to re-entry, remain in Karagiorg, Serbia, along with school guards? Are the teachers and professors of the ESDP and EPA, who are still insisting on pan-Hellenic downloads in Athens, for the full restoration of injustices? Those people who found the power through the collective struggle, the workers who colluded with the MATs and were taken to hospitals injured and found - with labour solidarity - in common racing mobilisations and won the international support of hundreds of labor unions around the world, all of them cannot be one's clients. They don't have to be. It is necessary for those who remain hostages of the perception that they can get comfortable in the corridors of the parliamentary and government offices. Those workers who fought and fought restore this bill, a restoration that they won with their sword. For this bill on restoring the injustices of the Memorandum Policy, we have also been attacked by Mr Varvitsiotis for family rule. It is better that Mr Varvitsiotis, as the previous colleague has said, does not speak at the house of the hanger for a rope. The main party of Karamanlis, Mitsotakis, Varvitsiotis, Kefaloyannis and go by saying, the party that shows leaders from the grandfather to the grandson as a guarantee for the coherence of their party every time, is attacking us, at the same time as the Governor of the Bank of Greece is their Memorandum Minister, the President of the Republic is their own Memorandum Minister, a large number of Secretary-General and government officials come from the lines of the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK and several Ministers of Government. When they won the elections in one night, they cleaned up all the heads of service, for example in the U.S.O. from the twenty-one people we have about seven Syrians. And we are waiting - badly, in my personal view - for the resignations of hospital governors. These are commanders, who are also their voters in hospitals, who are protesting for their stay as they rule under the rule of terrorism. It was thus implemented by the Memorandum Policy. Except that the New Democracy does not see that, while we are a government, the state is run by its own people, that the state is still binding on the Memorandum Policy and logic and any attempt to reverse this policy finds itself in front of the intention. For example, in the case of recruitment, in order to cover the tragic shortages of staff in hospitals in the mountain, island and barren regions, the government finds itself in the face of incredible bureaucracy, poverty wages, without incentive to serve people's needs in these areas. Here too, we have to make use of the old tools, that is, we hire subsidiary doctors and staff with a block. They are tools that, in the name of emergency response, established flexible working relationships. Immediately, Ministers, need to change the legislative framework so that recruitment of permanent staff and incentives for the difficult regions can be made quickly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The amendment we tabled was not accepted, but I understand that there were commitments made by the Minister. I hope that we will limit the number of blacklisted workers to the extent that it is really impossible to cover these posts with permanent staff. But we also need legislative intervention quickly. I think we can figure out the way. Of course, you will tell me that there is a financial cost. And here I think we have given an answer. We can abolish the PPPs, the contractors, that is to say, save money, because we know that they cost 50% more and do not offer good services. In addition to economic gain, we would have the benefit of people working on better terms, on equal terms to those of their colleagues. We all know that contractors in the name of profit do not pay or provide quality work and they are ultimately burdening the public. Mr Ministers, SYRIZA and the Left, but also the working movement together, fought against privatisation and a regime of work, which divides, unfairly and turns one employee against another, with few working and insurance rights, without trade union coverage, while offering the same work as their colleagues and paying much less. This bill is the culmination of workers' persistent struggles, which have fought in previous years and are now justified, although we would say that it is only a start at a difficult time. The break with the Memorandums and the deepening of our policy presupposes that the whole world is the valuable deposit for the SYRIZA Government, because all of them know of struggle, from coordination, from unity. This is our heavy artillery, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, which you are missing, against our political opponents, in the political opponents, not just SYRIZA, but 90% of the people who live and work in this country, but also throughout Europe. And these people must not and we cannot let them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Haitani. Mr. Leucascus has the floor for five minutes. Please, so that the next Members can also speak - because the way we are going will not speak - keep the time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to speak in today's bill because it has its own meaning. It's the bill that fades, abolishes memorial laws. He's coming to rehabilitate Memorandum Victims. In a sense, it gave an opportunity to the Memorandum of Anti-Population, not to have a positive attitude, but with the silence of expressing in practice a public apologies to thousands of people who raped, which created disaster conditions for thousands of people and put them in a trial. Her silence over this world could be even self-criticism, an apology. It was heard today that we blamed the previous government for always having the bills under the approval of the Troika, which entered the ministries. And the former Minister told us that in a central hotel the troika had a reason for the bills. It seems to me a little difficult for the troika to have agreed in the bill, not because if it had agreed, the Memorandum Forces would have voted for it and supported it - that is for granted - but because it also shows a different view of governments. The ministers of the previous government are experienced and are aware of it and withdrew the bills. The current government, however, brings the bills to a vote, in the diversity of the troika, with the disagreement of the troika, even if it meets in a central hotel. However, because they are affected by the shape of 'domestic troika' - 'terrorist troika', see how it is expressed. If the foreign troika did not agree with the bill, it instructed the interior troika to undermine the bill. The two main pillars led them out of Parliament, in the mid-term roll-call vote, and after close, Potami asks for a roll-call vote on the amendments as well. Why? Because there are a lot of amendments. But, well, this bill partially comes to restore, partly comes to correct what was destroyed. Not in these amendments, but in another hundred and twenty amendments, the disaster that has been done could not be restored. Why are they affected? Because the mandate of 25 January and the formation of a government did not allow the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to complete his destructive work, namely shut down services, abolishing organic positions, dismissing some thousands of workers, about seven and a half thousand. That's it. This incomplete destructive course may be disturbing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We know that the effort we make is difficult. We know that the blackmails we accept are many, but we have an advantage: we have a fresh mandate from the people to abolish the memoranda, to abolish the memorial policies, to break with yesterday and to open new roads for our country. And that is what the government has to do - and it will do - in every way. It will be based on the popular factor, no matter how much it is underestimated by some. It is not just the media that have an advantage to create terror and fear. The people themselves are a force that goes beyond the means itself, which they think will be able to terrorize the world. So the government will go ahead. He has to move on. And it has to be more decisive to activate this popular support, to activate it in every form. And relying on it is the best way to counteract both fear and terror being cultivated. And we can and will.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Leucasco. I will make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Educational Affairs presents its report to the draft law: "Urgent measures for the Primary, Secondary and Higher Education". Mrs Efstathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris, for five minutes, please. I repeat the request to keep time, so that we can give the floor to as many as possible, of course, so as not to end too much, too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill takes place at a time when negotiations with the institutions to reach an agreement are at the most crucial point. In fact, the break with the sublime and memorial regime has been officially launched since 25 January. Our partners are now forced to address the political issues that concern the Hellenic Republic and not to set macroeconomic targets which we will simply be called upon to impose on the Greek people. The new Greek government, bound by the people's mandate, reintroduces democratic normality within this suffocating economic framework, through specific legislative initiatives. This new Greek government, on the basis of its programming positions, is struggling for a public productive, democratic, transparent tool for social cohesion and sustainable development. In fact, we call on the public to be so productive and functional, that it can gradually go beyond the levels of economic, social efficiency and service provided to the competitive forms of the private sector, making them inactive in the consciousness and everyday life of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out, with reference to the provisions of the bill, that since 2010, which entered the country into the international financial control - Troika - and by mandate from the previous Memorandum of Understanding, five political turnouts have been made from the eleven that have been made in total over a period of thirty-five years from all the missions. Let us say it simply and clearly, the world of work was "military" whether they were civil servants or self-employed. The anti-social combination of enormous unemployment and political recruitments was imposed by the forces of the memorandum to enforce their extortion and neoliberal policies. We are looking at this regime every day through our legislative initiatives. We are demarcating democratically, according to constitutional provisions, the political backing. It is an absolutely necessary regulation, as there is no proper functioning of society with recruited workers. We welcome the simplification and acceleration of procedures for the recruitment of seasonal staff and project leasing contracts and the circumvention of the Ministerial Decision 33 of 2006 as provided for in Article 8. I would remind you that we had pushed, through the relevant questions, the MPs of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group from the position of counterpopulation and won only for school cleaners with project rental contracts to be paid exceptionally, so that P.S. could circumvent them. the one we said, in a bill passed on 24-10-2014. But today, from this Step I would like to note that the majority of school cleaners, with salaries of EUR 150 and EUR 300 per month, are unpaid for the months February, March and April. Over fifty cleaners, at least in the Prefecture of Ilias that I know - and in the Municipality of Pyrgos and in other municipalities in the area of Ilias - are desperate. Of course, the previous governments have created an unacceptable legislative regime, leading to seven months' delays, but we must immediately ensure that their successes are paid. I am going to go through some of the texts to which I wanted to refer. I simply want to refer to an incident that has to do with the bill what we are voting on today. On March 21, 2014, one day before the expiry of the eight-month period of the availability of about two thousand, teachers of Secondary Technical Training, it was planned to discuss in this Chamber a timely question I had tabled, about what will happen with these people who experienced the nightmare of hostage. This morning, the architect of the hostage - who, on one night, put his signature on the sudden death of these specialties, the most popular, than they have all admitted, in the Professional Lycees and Schools and in the subsequent availability of teachers - the former Minister of Education, Mr. Konstantinos Arvanitopoulos, declared a coma to attend and inform Parliament and the Greek people about what it had in mind, while at the same time it was on a television show, in pre-interview. At that time we issued a communication denouncing its position, entitled 'The Minister of Education what is he finally serving? Parliament or media democracy?’. We are therefore expressly saying to society that, with our governance, we are gradually restoring parliamentary democracy in the country, putting the mediation system in a proper position, within a normal, healthy, democratic society. We are restoring parliamentary democracy against mediation with the bill we are debating today, for the restoration, vindication of available and fired, while reconstituting the areas that have been abolished, with the now adopted law on the reopening of the ERT, with the forthcoming monitoring of the landscape of radio frequencies. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing is one of the bills for today's Government of Social Rescue, as well as, among other things, it justifies a long and difficult social struggle throughout the past period, of civil servants, teachers, administration of universities, municipal police and school guards. These struggles kept society upright and were a beacon for the majority of the world of work, real life and economy. I would really like to thank these fighters from this step, as I did with the workers of open self-managed ERTs and regional radio stations throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to supplement and remind you that there is a situation which I would like you to take into account. Recruitment of tens of our fellow people over the last three years, who have frozen because of monumental commitments and concern recruitment of individuals of special categories, such as LEI, children of national resistance fighters, based on n. Regulation (EC) No 2643/1998. I would clarify that this is a notice from the OAED, 2010 and as far as I know, their dossiers have been evaluated and approved and the signature of the appropriate ministries pending to complete their recruitment. We are talking about jobs, such as cleaning houses in ministries, Greek police, etc. I would ask you to show your sensitivity to this issue in the immediate future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u228	Thank you, Mrs Georgopoulos. Mrs Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u229	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we have been called upon to vote on a bill of great political and social interest, a bill that abolishes memorial laws and introduces measures to democratise and rationalise the administration, concerning relations between the state and society. The rationalisation of disciplinary law by introducing, extending citizens' rights to their daily dealings with management, as well as measures speeding up anti-management procedures, in particular through e-government processes, is an important pillar of this draft law. The bill also achieves the cessation of the duplication between permanent and permanent staff within the public administration. At this point I would also like to stress the importance of this provision, as we have constantly violated what was defined in Article 103 of the Constitution for permanent jobs for those who meet fixed and permanent needs. Of course, I will not fail to mention what is provided for in Chapter I of that bill, namely the restoration of injustices by reintroducing staff and mobility. Under the above provision, this draft law responds in principle to the request for reform in order to remedy the injustices and the major economic and social consequences for citizens and workers. With what the draft law provides, it is not just an injustice that is restored, it restores a huge institutional unrest of the previous government. What injustices and distortions, however, are in a position to restore the proposed bill? The reason for the deterioration of industrial relations, the decline in the public sector, the inability of public services to meet needs due to a lack of staff, the reduction in teachers and the deterioration of local government. As an elected and executive of local government, being close to the daily problems of the people of Carditsa, from where I come, I have been able to understand deeper the problems of public administration, problems which this bill is called upon to tackle, in order to relieve citizens of the simplification and reduction of bureaucracy. In particular: Accelerating the staff recruitment process with a specific period of time for needs that cover periods, such as the recruitment of fire extinguishers for the summer season, is in a position to address directly the needs that arise. On the contrary, the process has so far been much more complicated, losing considerable time at a time when our country must intervene immediately, without delays and lengthy procedures. Today, we are talking about a bill with a dynamic justice, a justice that the current government wants to restore for all the injustices they have suffered - let me be allowed to express - the victims of the policies implemented by the last Memorandum governments. In today's bill many are those workers who see their struggles vindicate: the reintroduction of teachers, the administrative officials of the HEIs, the school guards and the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the reintroduction of municipal police officers, prove that the government does not live in the words. The government's response to workers' struggles is the bill itself. For our words, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I would also like to focus on an interesting provision laid down in Article 23 for the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration. This article regulates issues relating to the composition of the Board of Directors with representation - for the first time - from the Alumni Association and the Students' Association on issues relating to the rules of study. The selection system of candidates for entry to the school is also simplified. In particular, these objections and observations of the candidates on how to examine and assess them in foreign languages were foreseen by this plan to abolish the examination of foreign languages and to replace it with a certificate demonstrating the level of the candidate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. In this way, it is possible to ensure that the tender is conducted more quickly, leaving the imposing and time-consuming administrative procedures, which have so far prevailed and overshadowed the important work of the centre, a process which is less psycho-corruption for the candidates. The draft law on the democratisation of administration provides a public administration with an upgraded role, first aid, which may not solve many of the problems that have plagued our country for at least five years, yet it is a principle of restoring the dignity of all those who have been wronged by the policies of the previous governments. We're acting like a fireman's government, we're called upon to wipe out the fires that were made by the proponents of the memorials. The Government has consistently made its commitments, with this draft law, to address the problems and distortions of the customerity and elitism of the Greek state created by the previous governments. We are continuing with what we have committed from the outset, protecting values and human rights, restoring injustices, with more democracy and rationalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u230	Thank you, too. Mr. Kotsias has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, I was just in an organization meeting with its officials on certain issues concerning my country, Evrytania. From the executives I learned that for the protection needs of an area where they had some facilities, they paid a security company EUR 100,000 a year. I was surprised to know the person who was a guard there, who, telling me his bad feelings, told me that he was only taking 600 euros a month, that is, 7,200 euros a year. Because I'm not sure if his insurance contributions were in there, I'll say 10,000 euros. Take a look at this! The 90,000 euros went to all those who want to save Greece! How did these agreements come about? You know very well. Some kind of a squirrel they had, a friend. And that's a sample. I'm telling you, because I just learned it an hour ago. See who the indignant ones are, in what amendment. Those who have spent thirty-eight - I think - amendments on election eves. In some nights a hundred and thirty - eight amendments concerning photographically huge economic interests. They are indignant, objecting, resisting and leaving the Chamber, because there are amendments that are currently being followed by some with their breath cut if they are concerned. They are people of the partisan that say, 'will we also be inside?' They're people who have been persecuted, and they're waiting with a breath cut. Such photographic arrangements we are proud to bring into this Chamber and be ashamed of those who photographed the ones they represented. See an amendment that cannot be accepted: In the infertile islands, problematic and remote areas, the duration of the contract can be up to three years - we are talking about doctors - and free feeding can also be provided. I'm talking about it very soon. If the assistant physician is placed in an infertile island, problematic and remote region, one of the spouses - the spouse or the wife - he or she is entitled, by way of derogation from the list, to place, as a matter of priority, in the place of his or her subsidiary physician. A official or a civil servant who is a spouse may be moved, seconded or transferred where the spouse or wife is. These amendments have not been accepted by my fellow Members and have left the Chamber indignant because they are in breach of constitutional rights. I heard that we are leading the country to a dead end with the negotiations. Listen: If we accept these policies, there is no deadlock. Only the deadlock will move to society. And we're not here to transfer the deadlocks to society. So if they have something to tell us all those who cannot stand - why constitutional rights are violated and the Rules of Procedure - let them come and tell us what they want at last. And tell the Greek people. What do they propose to have a way out and an agreement now? Hardouvel's mail? We are moving in the opposite direction to what these policies have imposed. We, with every bill - from the first on humanitarian matters until today - oppose the policies of the memorandum. And so we'll keep going, keeping the society up. We are proud that our people have touched their hopes on this government. Our anxiety is not to betray those hopes. That's how we'll keep going. We welcome the vindication of those who stood up in these stone years of memoranda. Their example should be an example of the whole society, because only the struggles that have never been given are lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u232	Thank you. Mr. Charakides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law: 'Democratisation of the administration - Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Rehabilitation of injustices and other provisions'. Just from the title, the bill seems to be very important. If it wasn't for the river, SYRIZA would speak for himself. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Unfortunately, my position on this bill is that it is not the basis for us to be able to deal with the problems of public administration, to introduce reforms to modernise public services, to tackle bureaucracy and to combat corruption. However, for the whole bill, the rapporteur, Mr Kartsoulis, has spoken in detail. There are provisions in the right direction, but there are several unacceptable provisions that take us back centuries. That is why Potami, in the vote on the motion for a resolution, will vote on most of the articles, but will vote against a number of them. I would like to refer to a number of points in the bill, which I believe need to be further worked out. From my previous capacity as Mayor Dramas, I will focus on three points and three articles. The first is Article 19 on municipal police regulation. The bill provides that it is up to the discretion of each employee to understand its initial position or not. I mean, the City Police is being reconstituted, but those who were in the City Police, if they want to go back and they can ask for another place. We believe that this poses risks for the proper functioning of the City Police that is being reconstituted. I'll be clearer about some questions: Has there been any elementary consultation with the municipalities, with every municipal police station, about the better re-establishment of the municipal police?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u234	Yeah, with the CCT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u235	I do not know whether it is perception of every municipality, and I will explain why. How many will come back? I'm going to set an example. The Municipality of Komotini had eight municipal policemen, two of whom were postgraduate and don't come back. There's six left. If one of the six, the three, one say they are not returning and want to become administrative officials, by the mayor's decision, you say, they can take another position. Tell me which Municipal Police the Municipality of Komotini will have with three, four or five people. It's not possible. So, why is this process doing so? The debate should be held first. Should I say about the City of Drama, where I was the mayor? There were twenty-five Municipal Policemen. The two were postgraduate, they've taken their seats and they'll stay there, and they'll be fine there. Of the rest, there are some qualified people who, in fact, as mayor, would like to be in a position other than Municipal Police. But that's why he's chosen to get in there. And she's going to reconstitute a service, which she won't be able to do her job. Is it going for illegal trade? Is he going for the parking? What's he going for? And you know very well that the responsibilities of the Municipal Police were much more than they had. The second thing I would like to ask is if there has been any prediction of the fate of the logistics equipment. Why? Because enough equipment has been given to others. He's been to the police asking for him. I as mayor have given up. Has there been welfare? I'm glad the Interior Minister is here. Care needs to be taken to give money to get the equipment. You need to see these much more seriously, because you will say that it has been reconstituted, but it will not work. Article 20: Final SPA tables. He did a process of municipality, a body to get some people at some point in 2010. The Municipality of Dramas to get forty people took them with a temporary painting. There were thirty people left to pick up. The final paintings came out. You're coming now and you're saying they're going to enter a board, you're gonna ask the agencies to get people from there and so on. Very good. He comes in with the simple question: When the Municipality of Dramas made the prediction of taking forty people, then he had that need. [[At this point, the ending bell of the Member hits a warning.]] Mr President, you will give me some time, because I think it is important. Be careful before the memorandum. With the Memorandum and the Memorandum of Restricting Recruitment and did not make any intakes, evenly he barely left about 30% -32% of the staff while I was a mayor. And we come here today and tell them: The ones you predicted and did a contest to get, don't expect them to be taken. This is a clear case of carelessness from your side, because you had to ask first what the body wants and if you don't want to get personal, that staff could be claimed by some other bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u236	It is the amendment we have made. The Minister said that he accepted it and then said no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u237	You don't have the floor, Mr. Katatotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u238	The third thing I want to say, to close my intervention is that it relates to Article 26(3) of the TE music industry, where you get the workers of music by pre-service and you upgrade them to TEs with one - listen to me! - Royal Decree of 1957. This royal decree was applied, Minister, when Greece had three, four utility courses, and when it had none, but no higher education school. Today we have two or three degrees in each county, that is, we have two hundred, two hundred and fifty degrees and six higher education schools. Is it possible for these children who go and end in four, five years a school, today, to tell them that you will be present at an ICP, why does it have a higher service than you? Then they would, too, study, do five years of service and be privileged employees to other colleagues. So I think you should see this. You can't let them go. These are three specific points in three specific articles. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u239	Thank you. Mr. Gregos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. The New Democracy has retired, and the PASOK has retired. It is an act of extreme revolutionary policy that causes, if anything, laughter. It is also anger, however, to see the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy climbing the Step of the House, holding the Constitution, moving the paper and talking about the Constitution, which has been trampled too many times when it was government. We are talking about Article 62 - what I have said in this way - Article 51(3)(b) - Article 55, Article 60, Article 61, Article 42, Article 11, Article 14, Article 28(1) and (3), Article 19(2) of international agreements and various others. That's not what we're talking about in order for a prosecutor to prosecute a criminal prosecution. See you just to learn and reach these violations of the constitution committed by the previous government, the ears and the last citizens of this country. We are talking about democratisation, about combating bureaucracy, about e-government and the restoration of injustice. A pathogen that burdened the backs of public administration officials, rightly and unjustly, was undignity, a patheticness that has often brought the citizen to the state. And it may not have been the workers' fault, but it was a system of merit that acted as a brake on the proper functioning of the state. There was a malfunctioning of services, delays in fulfilling demands, bureaucracy, lack of computerisation, wrong people in wrong positions, difficulties in accessing citizens, even to people with disabilities, partisanism, impunity, lack of record and application of the Code, and especially fake association. Of course, it is huge, really a very big mistake to call civil servants lazy and lazy. The image of the official who keeps talking on the phone is not representative. As in all areas of work, some show anti-cooperativeness and deception to the citizen. But that's not a rule. A huge blow to the relations between a civil servant and a citizen has succeeded - and they continue to do so - the well-known workers who break the ground. Of course, these well-known employees' representatives have never worked on the subject for which they were recruited. I'm talking about some guys like Balasopopoulos, Fotopoulou and others, who first have to catch a vacuum cleaner to pick up some trash from the street and then talk about the workers' problems. Of course, all of these have been devalued by all of the workers. Features are the photos of the ADED's gatherings that didn't even have a person to keep their banners. At the opposite, of course, we have all been served by the JEPs, with a huge amount of work, by the municipal policemen trying to put a class real, by the security that school guards provided, with enormous problems toward them, such as traffickers, traffic chaos and much more. The previous governments tried to use public administration, employees, as a party feud. It's not like that at all. Those who are involved in public administration, officials, are family workers, workers, and they are firmly supporting the Greek economy. The Rabbit competitor asked yesterday what the budgetary cost of this bill is and what wages these people will pay. We heard something about 72,000 euros. Surely they don't deserve a scumbag, and certainly there can be no huge wage differences, no matter whether the employees are PM, PM, or PM. Let's remind you that the majority of local policemen are a class of IP. The inconvenience, personal and family, with institutions of availability, volunteering, mobility, uncertainty and insecurity are charged to the previous government. And please don't keep doing the same. There are fair demands to be made directly respected, such as those of musicians, who are a skilled staff. Of course, even in the public, too many Greeks were appointed illegally. I was looking at money payment orders and I couldn't understand the name. He was writing a foreign name. Even in the cases that he wrote Greek name, the fathername said "Ivan" and the mothername said "Svetlana". It's been done, too. Of course, upgrades are needed, even at the National School of Public Administration. Of course a rule of law is required by everyone. Of course, proper implementation of the Staff Code is required, with strict penalties and stigmatisation of officials who insult sexual dignity. This is a debt to all of us and we have reported this on several occasions. Of course, people with disabilities need to be informed. Of course the certification of accessibility of public sector websites is required. Of course, the priority of the Olympic Games or the Paralympic Games or the Deaf Sports Olympic Games is required. Of course, a full and clear record is required. Of course, the party dominance is doomed to public administration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I just want to mention that in the Municipality of Thessaloniki there is, outside the office of a head of the Assasson Department, a poster of SYRIZA and another poster who denounces the Golden Dawn. Is that correct, Minister? That's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u241	It had to be Saxon's!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u242	And that, of course! All those who have remained unpunished. Especially them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u243	You served Saxon well!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u244	That's it, that's it! Finally, we heard and read about the presumption of innocence. That's what you leave it to us. There will be series of persecutions against the Golden Dawn and will be taught at Greek and foreign universities. We also heard about a conflict of interest from whom? New Democracy! That's a bad joke. We call on the government to implement a positive policy in all areas, because 'the first time left' can be the last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u245	Thank you. Mr. Stephen has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u246	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that both PASOK and the New Democracy are not only able to deal with this bill, but they have obviously also been tired of the constant and constant drafting of legislation by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. With today's bill we are overturning, not only the unacceptable measures imposed by the memorandum policies in the field of public administration, but we are trying to restore democracy, dignity and pride of workers in the public sector. Apart from redundancies, availability, inflamed mobility, disciplinary law, criminalisation of social and political struggles, what was attempted by the central political choice of the Samara - Venizelos coup d'état was the incrimination of the public, the terrorisation of the workers and the fear of their lives. I'll never forget, since I was a teacher, in school, that saying for lazy and laundry teachers. The despair and the fighting of fellow professors from technical education has also been recorded in my memory, who have lost their job overnight. I cannot forget, too, the attempted evaluation that it considered to be 15% inadequate for civil servants a priori. I also experienced the climate of fear and terror by disciplinary law and saw how easy it was for an administration to be dissatisfied. This bill has been accepted - and will be attacked - rabies attacks. Dismissal, availability, mobility, removal of organic positions, evaluation was the core of the Memorandum Policy and the personal bet of Mr.Mitsotakis, who wanted a small, controlled public, since the services could easily go through private interests, as was done with the technical training abolished, which fed private IEK the next day. A hundred and eight professional high schools were closed in one night. Result? Thousands of people's families were forced to go to private IEKs and pay. We therefore do not want a large, uncontrolled and party public, nor, of course, a shrinked public, but an effective public, which is evolving and contributing to the development and progress of the place, but without the abolition of fundamental democratic rights of workers in it. We remove the brutal institution of availability and reconstitute the specialities and branches, as well as the total organic positions of the administrative staff of universities, school guards and municipal police, cleaners and others. We are abolishing the disciplinary law of civil servants, as was inspired by the honourers of the order and morality of previous coexistence, a disciplinary law that is exterior and unfair, and we are putting it back on the right and democratic foundations, as announced by the Minister. We are abolishing the political mission as a measure to deal with the strike, a measure which attempted to save workers' claims. We do, however, re-activate the institution of the AACC and look at the appointment of the successors to it. We are abolishing the unacceptable in terms of its philosophy of evaluation, which was aimed at dismissing a number of workers, as it has been imposed every time by their budgetary deficit, but also by manipulation and degrading workers in general. We are ultimately abolishing the applicable laws of the memorandum, which were imposed on the public sector, which resulted, not as much, in the demand of creditors as in the result of the neoliberal perception of progress and development, however, delivered to private interests. The citizens of this country need to know that we could, after all, have been able to do away with the Greek society in the name of fiscal consolidation, but in fact it was bleaked by the obsessions of the co-pilots for the dissolution of any service provided as a public good. We want a modern, efficient, less bureaucratic public sector. We want civil servants worthy and decent to serve the needs of the citizen. This bill is moving in this direction. I hope that something else will succeed: those who had lost their sleep, in their statement, when they fired workers, hopefully by the vote and the reinstatement of the workers in their positions to win him again. I wholeheartedly vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u247	Thank you. Mr. Barkas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, which listens to the title "Democratisation of Administration - Combat Written and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions", we continue to extinguish the sweater who listens to the name of a memorandum, which has oppressed the Greek people for five years. And right now, when a left government comes to restore injustices, it comes to defend the great majority of Greek society, even today in the Greek Parliament, there are forces which defend the previous policy, the policy of memoranda that destroyed the country, destroy the society. We have seen today this phenomenon. While the government is tabling this bill that restores all these injustices, all these dismissals, it brings the world back to work, which in one night was thrown on the road, we observe the forces of previous coup d'état to leave the Greek Parliament, to leave this Chamber in defending the policy of the memorandum. And, of course, a third force, which came to enter as a wedge and replace or replace the policy of the memorials, Potami, is criticizing the government, why? Because we are re-occupiing people, because we are stopping the process of political and employment empowerment, a phenomenon which has been managed and carried out by the junta and, of course, by the previous government. It is really very regrettable for a new political force and a new party to come and defend these policies. So we, ladies and gentlemen, are the ones who will defend the work. We've always said that and that's what we'll always do. We will defend the right of the world to work and we will defend the right of society in the social state. We are in favour of the social state and say no to the eruption of these services, which neoliberalism has put into the eye. Because this is the core of neoliberal policy, the privatisation of these social structures, of this social state that helped and supported society, supported the poor, the workers, supported those who have always been in the eye of the cyclone. We are therefore hitting this policy. We always hit her and hit her. We are therefore defending the social state, yes. We are defending a state that stands next to the citizen. We are defending a state that will have teachers in schools and will not close schools. We're defending the public school, defending the public hospital. We defend all this at their core. And this bill comes to do just that. It is this left-wing government that brings man back to the fore. Because for us, for SYRIZA, for this government, whatever the question, the answer will always be one and that is the man. So that's what we're defending. Because they cannot be a customer or a customer relationship either the cleaners or the school guards, but neither can the teachers nor these working groups, who paid the Memorandum marble. If these are the system's customers, then all those who held positions in the previous government on payment, or all those who the Greek state has lived their families, their grandparents, their grandparents, their fathers, but also their own what are? Who are clients, cleaners or all of them who have three and four cousins in this Chamber? Our aim, therefore, - to be clear to you - is to restore all contracts indefinitely and for a certain time that meets constant and lasting needs, all those who defend society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And it is very positive - I conclude, Mr President, that this is my last word - the fact that we heard from the Minister's mouth that this is only the beginning. And to finish, those who are working on various plans in their minds for a fall of government and for the formation of a government of national salvation or as they imagine it, sleep and have to wake up. For us, the government rests. There is a majority, we bring the bills that we are committed to bringing to Parliament, we vote for them and we support the vast majority of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u249	Thank you. Mrs Triantafyllou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Important articles included in this bill are the beginning of the healing of wounds, which brought to the body of Greek society the motto of monuments, such as Article 1, which abolishes the political mission and the requisition of personal services as a means of dealing with the strike. And we've seen a lot of recruitment these years. We have also seen the preventive recruitment of teachers, we have also seen the thirteenth invasion of MATs. It is a serious attempt to bring about the climate of fear, subjugation, dehydration imposed on the public and on the workers in it, to a public that was disgusting its usefulness and effectiveness. They invoked the need for less public opinion when it comes to wages, to ridicule employees' representatives from every process of selecting the officials who were called upon to command them, but not if the debate, for example, concerned the repression. Years have been attempting, in a systematic way, to impose a neoliberal model of public administration organisation aimed at the implementation of labour rights and the privatization of public-private structures, the weakening of control mechanisms, the autocraticisation of public actions, the reduction of trade union actions on workers' claims. So less public, and poorly paid employees, careless, afraid, without opportunities to participate, therefore also to question them. State with an antiquated structure, indeed, set up to serve neoliberal plans and power parties, expressing them and not, of course, the citizen. Any reforms - and the word'reforms', of course, are euphemistically said - that reform efforts were essentially aimed at suppressing, weakening the social character of state operation and transferring key functions and resources to public interests. A number of Members of this House have referred to health and education issues. I'd say they're very careful. All these memoranda years, the demolition that has been achieved in these areas is truly clayant. The situation in health and education is really, not just extremely difficult, but I would say extremely difficult to reverse, despite any attempts. A first step, then, makes today's bill that we are discussing, to lift injustices and face distortions. Articles 17 and 18 provide for the reintroduction of the staff who had been removed from his service due to availability and others, and I refer to them in order to truly welcome the struggle of all workers, because redundancies have never been reformed but only neoliberal restructuring. At this time when the country gives a titanic struggle, a very big fight to stand up, it needs all the workers next to it. This bill takes a step forward for a public sector, less bureaucratic and more self-government, which will be a key lever for productive reconstruction and therefore for the country's development. The democratisation of the relations between the State and society in Chapter 1, the rationalisation of the Disciplinary Law in Chapter 2, the attempt to combat bureaucracy in Chapter 3, the reinstatement of staff and other measures in Chapter 4 are parts of the draft law which hamper the deprivation of the public sector, the public administration, of a public administration, in which the default outlets of workers must finally be brought to an end, which leads them to unemployment, and that calls an assessment. Evaluation is indeed necessary, but it should not and should not be possible to be carried out by professional politicians serving different interests. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] I think we should develop new relationships of confidence and cooperation in the public sector too. We must constantly fight for transparency, for dignity, but also for the social nature of the state. We must insist on technological upgrading and restructuring, but without dismantling labour rights. But all this must be done with the people, with the people. Finally, from the Step forward of the House, from which people's demands must be expressed, the bad people, I would like to say to the workers a slogan that we have been saying all these years together and I think we need to inspire it and repeat it: it is fair to fight. It's fair to win. And we'll win because we really believe in justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u251	Thank you, Mrs Triantafyllou. Many ministerial amendments and many Members of Parliament have been accepted. I will give the floor to the next speaker, which is Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou, and then I will make some announcements on both the amendments and the roll-call vote. Come on, Mr. Meikopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are again among the last speakers, so many of my colleagues have very well analysed all the articles and provisions of this bill, so I think I enjoy the privilege of making a more free place. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say this: the previous government, in my opinion, used half the truth, but to tell a great lie. So in order to justify that they made destructive, inhuman horizontal choices in the public sector, they said that these choices were made because there was a overcrowded public system, with overcrowded officials and, indeed, many of them accused themselves of being lazy and lame. Ministers of previous Greek governments in the international fora have too many times accused civil servants of being lazy. Listen to this! But what was the big lie? They said this half-truth - because there was maladministration, there were horrors, there were clashes - but they hid that this very public was their creation. It was a feud of old-fashioned communism. It was a field of experimentation of the two old mighty parties. Have the PASOK and the New Democracy colleagues forgotten how the heads and directors were appointed to the various public services? Many of them hadn't finished high school. Did they forget how they went into public services and send them to people who had green and blue papers? Did he forget about PASOK - who left - the famous 'classics'? All this has been forgotten and SYRIZA is accused of going to set up a party state. A further step has been taken by colleagues from PASOK and New Democracy, and they have also said: they have told the private sector that all the sufferings they have experienced have been caused by civil servants. They have therefore created a disastrous social automation, turning one social category towards the other, at a historic moment, which was required to exist at national level. The social automation created was above all devastating for the very prospect of this country. They hid from private employees, never made self-criticism for the abolition of reincarnation, for the destruction of the Collective Labour Conventions, for the lack of private employees' incomes to be deprived of many thousand euros, that they destroyed hundreds of thousands of jobs. That's the tragic truth. So this bill, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, but also of the then government, is trying to cure injustices of the five-year memorandum. In fact, it is trying to form a framework for the proper functioning of the public administration so that it is effective toward the citizen through rationalised, simplified and transparent procedures. We are not asking any public officials for certificates of social or political opinion. On the contrary, we run along with them. Most public services are managed by people independent of their political opinions. We are trying to use the best of all this human potential, which I believe is worthy of. We cannot put all civil servants in the same bag, as previous conflicts have resorted to this practice. And now, from this Step of the House, let us remember - the oldest colleagues from SYRIZA - and this: As I remember yesterday, the school guards, the local policemen who had camped outside the House, the Constitution, in front of the hiking streets, without euros in the pocket, and we took them bags of food and water. Camped for days, fighting against an inhuman policy. One of them, Vangelis Toumpas of Volos, a few months ago, left life and did not have time to see his current right. So this bill, friends and friends of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, is dedicated to all these people who have fought, at the cost of many times their own health, which has been shaken by this psycho-corruption fight. We dedicate it to those who are today entitled to this legislative initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. Mrs Igleze, who is the next speaker and then we will say what is needed for the procedure and the amendments. Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u254	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, public administration is the cornerstone of a state. It can be the means of orderly operation of a favoured state to serve citizens and the public interest. However, it can also be the field of political games, ruffles and the service of unjust and immoral interests, a brake on the proper functioning of the state. Finally, it may be the scapegoat for all the suffering that Greek society faces. It depends on what political perspective you see and how you deal with it. The bill we are debating today is a serious attempt to democratise the administration and restore the injustices committed in the years of the Memorandum Governments. The restoration of injustices is a moral obligation on people who have been called upon to pay much of the costs of austerity policies and without, of course, having achieved substantial benefits both in the economy and in the functioning of public administration. The reintroduction of the sanitary supplies is an important step towards meeting key needs. There can be no effective administration and rationalisation of the state without the necessary quantitative and qualitative personnel. The people who were removed from their position were not, ladies and gentlemen, decorative elements. They were not simple figures in the Ministries' balance sheets. The teachers of technical education, the administrative staff of the universities, the school guards, the municipal police, the cleaners, the heroic cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, covered constant and critical needs. They were serving citizens, doing a work that society needed. In addition to restoring the injustices, the bill also deals with issues of transparency, ethics, workers' rights and the facilitation of citizens. For example, it defines the AACC itself instead of the Ministries as a competent authority for the mobility of successful people, in line with the needs and shortcomings of the services. The bill also introduces the self-evident procedure for the search for the necessary documents for the citizens of the public by the public services themselves. It is unreasonable and totally ineffective that citizens should be troubled, running from one service to another, in order to gather the many documents they need, when there are instruments for intra-service access to these documents. This bill is also a very important measure towards the democratisation of our country. As a means of dealing with strikes, political empowerment is inconsistent with a democratic state which respects the rights of workers. Recruitment can be used as a means of addressing urgent needs of society and not as a means of political pressure, as has been abusively used by the Memorandum Governments. The bill we are discussing sets out the concept of requisition on the foundations that serve society rather than the strategy of the individual government. The policy pursued by the Memorandum Governments has made good use of all public services and civil servants in the eyes of the citizen. A large proportion of the citizens, not only did they stop trusting the state and its services, but they came to blame the public sector for all the responsibility for the financial and operational problems of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not defend the state of public administration, as it has been done by those who have allegedly defended its reform and modernisation. The bill we are debating today attempts to make the first important steps towards combating corruption, rationalisation of staff on the basis of objective criteria, rationalisation of public structures and the degradation of the client state. The basic prerequisites for a modern and functional state mechanism are its democratisation and a design aimed at equal service for citizens and ensuring workers' rights. With this bill, a new day begins for a public sector that, as it should, serve the citizen and the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very important bill that I consider to be particularly emotional for many of us, because it is really touching to restore injustices and it is equally touching to restore democracy. From this point of view, I would like to say that it is a special thrill to see in the gallery the victims of the memorial politicians that are restored today by the vote of this bill, the cleansers of the Ministry of Finance, the school guards. [[Applause]] But this bill, precisely because it has this historical and democratic importance and because it represents and marks too much for many, and above all for society and democracy, we ourselves, the House, must not blame it. And we will be wrong if we allow intrusion of procedures or uncertainties or provisions which do not meet the constitutional requirements and conditions of the Rules of Procedure. We are many and many times - and too many nights and too many days - we have fought so that the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament are not circumvented. And these battles must be given from all positions. I have also told the Conference of Presidents that during this period the House has shown - the truth is - a tolerance to some misconduct, of course, with unanimous decisions of the House and after dialogue, a tolerance which is justified by the fact that the government is going through its first days - the hundred days have not yet been completed, tomorrow is completed - but a tolerance which must not be misunderstood and must not lead to an abuse of parliamentary means and parliamentary routes that ultimately violate the procedure that we all want to defend. I read what Article 74 of the Constitution lays down in relation to bills and amendments: 'Each bill and any proposal for a law shall be accompanied by a explanatory statement. Before entering the House, in plenary or in chambers, it may be referred for legal treatment to the Scientific Service referred to in Article 65(5) where it is established, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure.’ The Scientific Service has been set up, just to let me know that they are one of the most undersubordinated. Only twenty-four persons serve there, contrary to other services that have two hundred forty persons. The Scientific Agency is very important. ‘Legislations and legislative proposals submitted to Parliament shall be referred to the committee concerned’. I would remind you that even for the urgent bills here this House has put in place wide-ranging discussions procedures in the committees. Even the urgency tabled by the Ministry of Education was discussed at three meetings instead of one. ‘After the submission of the report or the deadline set by it, they shall be introduced into the House for discussion, after three days after that, unless the Minister responsible has designated them as urgent. The debate shall begin on an oral recommendation from the relevant Minister and the Committee's rapporteurs. Paragraph 3. Parliamentary amendments to bills and draft laws for which the House is responsible shall not be introduced for debate unless they are submitted until the day of the debate, unless the Government agrees to discuss them." Here I would like to say that the parliamentary amendments are a very important instrument for the activation of the legislative function. It is important to accept parliamentary amendments because it gives the Members a real legislative power, but the conditions must be met. Of course, there is always the government's privilege of accepting even late Members' amendments. ‘It shall not be inserted for discussion of a bill or a proposal for a law designed to amend a provision of law and the entire text of the provision amended in the explanatory statement has not been entered in the text of the bill or proposal, as formulated by the amendment. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to draft laws or draft laws introduced for discussion and vote in the competent permanent parliamentary committee, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. A draft law or a proposal for a law containing provisions which are irrelevant to their main purpose is not introduced for discussion. Add or amend unrelated to the main object of the bill or of the proposal for a law is not introduced for discussion. Appendices or amendments to Ministers shall be discussed only if they have been submitted at least three days before the start of the debate in plenary, in the section referred to in Rule 71 or in the competent permanent parliamentary committee, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The additions or amendments to the previous two subparagraphs shall apply to Members' amendments. In the event of a dispute, the House shall decide. Members who do not participate in the competent permanent parliamentary committee or in the section referred to in Article 71 shall have the right to speak in principle and to support proposals for laws, additions or amendments which they have tabled, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure.’ Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament states: ‘The additions or amendments shall be signed by the Members or Ministers submitting them, shall be submitted to the competent institution of the Parliament and shall be entered in a separate book of continuous numbering, in chronological order of submission. The deposit on Friday shall be at the latest 13.00 ́. Confirmation of the deposit of the additions or amendments shall be made by the competent institution of the Parliament by drawing up a form under which the number, date and time of the deposit is recorded. Addendums or amendments to Members and Ministers shall be tabled at least three days before the start of the debate in plenary at the Discontinuance Department of the Parliamentary Works or the relevant Standing Committee. In the event of a dispute, the President is asking the House, which shall rule solely on an up-to-date or up-to-date and without debate. Article 88. The amendments shall contain either amendments to specific articles or to specific provisions of a bill or a proposal for a law or addition of new articles or provisions.’;
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u256	At this point in time the Rules of Procedure will be read to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u257	‘Before the text of each amendment, a brief explanatory statement shall be presented indicating the reasons for the proposed changes. Amendments submitted by Ministers shall be accompanied by a summary assessment of the effects of the arrangement. Motions should relate to the main object of the bill or of the proposal for a law. Amendments from Boulevard shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article 73(3) of the Constitution. Changes resulting from a burden on the State's budget shall be transmitted before their debate at the General Report of State, if the competent ministers so request. In this case, the General Secretariat of the State is required to submit its report to Boley within three days of their receipt. Only if that deadline passes unresolved, the amendments can be discussed without the report. Motions for resolutions shall be printed and distributed to Members before the start of the debate on the draft legislation or the proposal for a law.' The framework for tabling amendments and contents of amendments is very clear. It is also clear that there may be a derogation from the framework by decision of the Parliament and to the extent of reasonable and necessary, especially as regards urgent need. In this regard - and I shall speak first of all about the ministerial amendments - there are three ministerial amendments which, in the Bureau's opinion, I, as President, do not fulfil these conditions: This is Protocol No 2, with Protocol number 88 and Protocol number 35, deposit date 27/4/2015. As in the case of the State financing of political parties, the Council adopted Regulation (EC) No 3023/2002, as applicable.’ I have been informed of it that it has not been developed by a competent Minister. If there is growth and justification, the House can review it. There is also the general number 105 and 46 specific titled or summary: ‘Installation of rollover operations in the ‘DENMARK’ programme, amending the provisions of Articles 79, 104, 161, 163, 165.’ Finally, there is a late-term ministerial amendment tabled this afternoon at 18.30" titled "To supplement it from 20-4-2015 Act of Legislative Content ratified by v. Therefore, the Commission concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. As far as possible and given the number of amendments, my assessment is that these three amendments are not justified and should be withdrawn because they do not fulfil the constitutional requirements. The Bureau reserves the Bureau for the amendments. There are still several Members registered to speak. I tell you that, in any case, for the roll-call vote requested and in order not to have night-night post-night procedures, it will be scheduled for tomorrow and I will be briefing you on time. I would like to ask - I have already contacted the Secretary-General of the Government for a long time, I have informed him - the relevant ministers, since there is something complementary to these three amendments, that they should also be placed to the extent that they are not here, to come to justify and to give a statement to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u258	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u259	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u260	Madam President, I shall speak on the first and third amendments, on the financing of the parties and on the reserves of local government. I think it is absolutely within the material of the bill we are discussing. Either way, they concern the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. I did not have the time, but I did not think it was necessary - and I still think - to refer to the question of state subsidies, because it is correcting the law because a 'F' had been omitted in a hypothesis, so that the parties cannot be financed, we cannot have arrived in May and the dose cannot be given. It has been done with all the regulatory forms from the relevant departments of the Ministry and with my personal involvement the correction. It's about parties by law. I heard some objections from the gentlemen in relation to LAOS and everything. I'm not actually going to the point. The law says that. And I think it should be voted on. Nor is there any more appropriate draft law to introduce such an amendment. Perhaps it is the epitome of the amendments in relation to this bill. That's my point of view. For the other matter, it's self-evident. There was a detailed discussion in the House about the reserves of local government bodies. The institutions were asked, and in the debate that took place here, in detail, some - to say fat - written government commitments, in relation to two crucial issues with regard to some of the forward-looking accounts they have and would lose from this, some municipalities, as well as the repayable services from which they did not want to enter this reserve obligation. These two had been accepted by the government after a detailed discussion. In fact, the Prime Minister, in a meeting with the CEDEFOP and ELPE, pointed it out and sealed it. In view of this, and in view of the conference of the CEDEFOP which is tomorrow, they also come to this process. In other words, I do not see how these two amendments fall under any circumstances, at least in anti-constitutional or regulatory terms, etc. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. I would very much ask that we proceed with these two amendments, or, in any case, if there is a difference of opinion, that the House decides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi. Mr. Katrugalos has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u262	Madam President, I will speak to you about the third, the ministerial amendment tabled by Mr Mardas on 'DENGY'. Before I say about it, I can tell you that I fully agree with the need for the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and that there will be consistency between what we have been talking about when we were opposition and what we are saying now. But let me tell you that, in my opinion, the "DENMARK", which is the main subject of this arrangement, responds to the relevance of the second main subject of the bill, which is: "Fighting Writing and Electronic Governance" and is in the short term. I therefore think that from this point of view of the rules of the Rules of Procedure and of the Constitution you have said, we are meeting the typical needs that need to be met so that they do not conflict with the rules in order to discuss this regulation. I would also like to tell you that on the contents it has been developed by the Minister and that it does not consist of a major divergence from the "GENERAL". It comes to solve a very specific issue of what is called abductions, which allow funds which have not been used during a financial year, to be transferred to the next year. And since no statements have been made on the budget for the previous year, there is a risk that these amounts will be lost, which justifies urgency and not being included in another bill. As a poster, although I said to you at first that I fully share the self-evident care that all of us must have in respect of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and even though I think that the number of these amendments should have taken care, if necessary, that they were included in the bill so as not to burden the parliamentary procedure, I think that this situation, in part, is justified by the fact that many injustices, many of which were not provided for in the text of the bill. I am referring to the amendments tabled - but I shall, if necessary, prescribe the debate later - and that is why the large number of amendments tabled is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Katrugalo. Is there another Minister who would like to speak on the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u264	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u265	Mr. Polakis, no. There's a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u266	In relation to this issue of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u267	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u268	We're going to open a large list, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u269	I think so. If, however, you consider it necessary,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u270	He'd better not talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u271	...you can register as a proposed dentology and speak at the end. I'd say we do that. In any case, we will not close it right now. We have heard the Ministers. With regard to Mr Marda's late amendment, there is an absolute ban in the Rules of Procedure and, on the other hand, there is an absolute perception that it is a positive amendment, as you will explain it to us, Minister. The precedent that exists in relation to such amendments, which are considered positive, but which have been delayed, is that the House decides whether it will accept by way of derogation. At the moment, of course, there is the difficulty that two parliamentary groups have left, in my view, of course, not for reasons of compliance with the Constitution and procedure. In any case, the reasoning in relation to it could be a Parliament decision. However, I cannot help noticing that, where exceptional procedures were followed, such as the act of legislation, there are failures and errors and injustices, I think it should make us all much more careful in relation to how to legislate. With regard to the amendment, which relates to 'TRAINING', I understand Mr Katrugalos's reasoning, namely that there is a formal relevance. I must say that I do not understand the content, but that does not relate to my procedure and to my competence. In relation to the amendment on the financing of political parties, the Minister set out the reasons. My view is that Parliament must take a decision on all of this. It will be at the end of the debate tonight. We shall therefore proceed with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u272	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u273	I too, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u274	Mr Petrakos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, and Mr Theocharis, Parliamentary Representative from Potami, are therefore asking for the floor. Here, Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u275	Thank you, Madam President. I have the opinion and I suggest that the time we have to decide is that. Now the relevant ministers have informed us about the relevance and importance of the amendments, now this House has to take a decision. I do not think it should be done - because there is also a risk that there will be many fewer Members - in the end. So, for these ministerial amendments, we have to take a decision now. As you said - as you said - it is right and must be possible for Members to contribute to the legislative process. This is the meaning of the parliamentary amendments to restore aspects of the previous government's injustices. My suggestion is to make a statement now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u276	We did not say, Mr Petrakos, because there are short-term, relative and non-related reasons. And there are too many of them, we'll talk along the way. The thing that you have stressed is that where there is a restoration of injustice, there is also a relevance and there must also be sensitivity. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u277	First of all, I would like to welcome the debate that is taking place at the moment and the initiative you have taken, Madam President, to raise these issues, because these are issues which, during the debate, we and other parliamentary groups - I will not say whether they have done so misunderstood or indeed, we have at least done so for the sake of respecting the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. Therefore, because we have seen - and we continue to see - that the government is deaf on these issues, we welcome the fact that you have started the debate on this issue. For all these three ministerial amendments - we will not talk about the parliamentary amendments, we will do so when the debate comes - is very important, since they do not fulfil - the conditions which the Constitution calls for, even if there are ways of escaping through certain procedures, such as the debate in plenary, not to do so. I would like to remind the House that he was asked to vote four times on the hundred-dollar arrangements. That was because there was no proper legalization. You passed one in two acts of legislation because it was not written, what the government wanted to write in the law on regulations. We come and make corrections on the corrections all the time. This is now being done with an amendment which corrects the act of legislation. I think that it is not an honour for Parliament to legislate if we are entering a continuous and enduring process of correction of corrections from one week to the next. I would remind you that it was not five to six days before the FTL came to correct the arrangement. We understand that many of them can matter. On the other hand, the more important they are, the more careful we need to see these amendments. The Minister tried to reduce the importance of the 'DENMARK' programme. Yes, this amendment may not be very important on this particular subject, but by nailing the lion. It opens the ferry and the next one to come will say that "for the sake of efficiency of the ESRB, we cannot afford to pass on to the "DENMARK". We will pay and then find out in a couple of months.” These are very important issues. We must not create - and forgive me the uncircumcised expression - by making such actions, which are not contemptuous. After all, Parliament is an area of dialogue and thought. We therefore believe and agree with the views you have expressed yourself that these amendments should be made in due course and after the government has consulted them better and made any corrections. We remain in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. You will allow me not to be flattered by such positions. In addition, your parliamentary group has left every committee, to which I am chairing, but it is taking part.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u279	Our disagreement is a given one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u280	This is a serious matter. What I said, and it was clear, is that it needs to be fully clarified. In relation to the proposed amendments, specific explanations have been given by the relevant ministers, the 'DENMARK' and the question of the funding of the parties. For DENMARK, the explanation was given that there is a relevance and since there is no question of time-consuming, since it is time-consuming. In relation to the funding of the parties - if I understood the justification correctly - is it a reason to block the funding of the parties, Mr Voutsi? Is there anything that prevents the funding of the parties? Altogether? However, it should also be aware of the legality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u281	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u282	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u283	On the other issue of local self-government, because I want to be right at this level, Madam President, since the debate is a little general and we should be absolutely honest and open, I will say this right: the CEDEFOP, after meeting the Prime Minister, despite having taken these assurances, took a decision not to deposit the local government's reserves, the reserves, pending legislation which they consider to be these two commitments. The days have passed, the weather has passed. In any case, I do not criticise the institution's decision there. Tomorrow I'm going to go talk to the CEDC conference. Things are very serious. I think we should have these adopted. I don't know what their performance will be anymore. It is clear that a serious issue has arisen. I also give you these explanations to understand the government and Prime Minister insistence that we go through these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u284	Is there another parliamentary representative who wants to speak in this regard?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u285	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u286	Mr Polakis, because you are constantly asking for the floor, I do not want to blame you. You have the floor for two minutes, although not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u287	I'm sorry to insist, but I want to speak as a self-government until 9 January. I would like to speak in support of what Mr Voutsi said. On the subject of the amendment to the CEDEFOP reserve: For various reasons, the CEDEFOP calls for a safeguard which the government, with this amendment, gives. And he has to give it, because of the matter that the country is going through and I stop here. I think that the amendment should be accepted and voted on. My second point concerns what Mr Theocharis puts, which is hypocritical. It's purely hypocritical. The municipalities have thirteen degrees of control. My personal opinion is that there should be a repressive check at the end of the year. All the rest of it is for us to mask. Why has the problem been created at the moment? Mr. Katrugalos explained it. I'll just say it myself. Too many services, supplies or works have not been able to complete last year. The appropriations had been voted on and not all the funds were disbursed. On 27 December the Ministry sent a provision saying: 'Do not overturn the undertaking until 31'. They didn't have time for all the municipalities to do it. By not accepting this, Commissioners - another cancer - do not accept it, and I say it as it is - consider a number of warrants. And at the moment there are projects that have been executed in the course and which cannot be paid. With this amendment, these works and the people who made them pay will be able to do so. That's the story. We don't break any doors or sow new demons, nor do we remove "DIAGY". I think that there is a detailed description of how this thing is done and why it needs to be done and what it serves in this period, which both wants the liquidity market and some people need to be paid for the work they have done. I think that the amendment is for the service of local government and must be accepted. Thank you very much for your exception, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u289	Madam President, I would like to speak, please. He referred to two topics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u290	The procedure will be as follows. There's still...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u291	Madam President, why don't you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u292	Mr. Theochari, let me give you the floor. I didn't see you asked for the floor. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u293	I don't need the two minutes. We have heard from the viewpoint of a self-government why the controlled person does not want control. I don't disagree. I agree 100%. It is clear that from the point of view of the TATs and from the point of view of each minister, if we could get the "GENERAL" completely, they would be happy. I'm sure of it. That is not what I doubted. However, we have been described as a problem, which is a problem of the past and we have brought an amendment that will apply to the adjournment. This is a difference of means and intentions. You do not bring an amendment that provides that, because we did not have time last year, mayors will have the right every year at 31-12 and in ten years - to do the deeds without going out on the 'GENERAL'. If we have a problem with last year's acts, there will be an amendment which will solve the problem of last year's actions. There to discuss and we will have no objection, but not an amendment which gives the mayors the right to do this every year. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. You will allow me to tell you that because as a Member I have opposed amendments to "DENMARK", which were brought by the Ministry of Finance, when you were Secretary General of Income...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u295	I didn't have a legislative initiative!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u296	...and because of these amendments, I consider them to be very important and serious...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u297	How many have passed? How many?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u298	...and because they have to be fully clarified, that is why, and because of the apparent lack of relevance, the issue has been raised. But we must not get to pretend that we are forgetting in here, and what has happened and what has been opposed. The President does not forget what he has opposed. You don't forget what you've been through.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u299	Where and how far does it come to me that I have come together, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u300	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u301	Tell me where it turns out that I've conspired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u302	I'm sorry, Mr. Red, I just wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u303	Madam President, how and how does it come to me that I have been involved in this matter? Since I didn't have a legislative initiative! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Did my signature come somewhere? Tell me an amendment with my signature!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u304	I'll give you the floor. Don't shout. This is where we don't close microphones. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u305	Where, Madam President, do you come from? And in any case, if you wish, tell me how many amendments it has put forward and signed the previous government. From what I remember, no one! Because you opposed it and it didn't pass. It is this government that listens to nothing and all these amendments will pass them. And then the score will be zero for the previous government and I don't know how many amendments for it! [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Please, I have nothing to do with any legislative initiative by the previous government. And if we cannot understand how the Secretary-General operates and how the rest of the political leadership works, I cannot explain it right now. It's very complicated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u306	In reply, the amendments came in dictated, you know that. There's also been for the Lagard list, which was your ultimate responsibility. For DENMARK, they did not come under the carpet of parliamentary amendments. Mr. Vassilis Kokalis from the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u307	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u308	I'll give you the floor later. Let your colleague speak as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u309	That is right at the beginning of your speech, Madam President, you have explained your opinion in full, including the articles of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure, on how an amendment can be incorporated into a bill. After the explanations of the competent ministers, we believe that these amendments should be accepted and that they should be accepted - because one was late - but also, in fact, absolutely necessary for the continuation of the government's work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr. Red. Do you want the floor again, Mr. Theochari?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u311	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u312	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u313	I would like to correct an inaccuracies you mentioned, Madam President. The Lagard list was never my responsibility, much more than my absolute authority. The Lagard list was under the responsibility of the ILO, the DEA, which never went through the responsibility of the General Secretariat of Public Income. He has always been under the authority of the State Secretary responsible at the time, Mr Mavragani. I assume that it is now under the appropriate Minister, Mr Nicoludi, and under Mrs Valvani. Even now, the ILO, which had responsibility for the Lagard list, was never under the responsibility of the General Secretariat either as long as I was later. This is to remove any misunderstanding, because it is being discussed all the time. I can assure you, of course, that those cases following a special intervention by the public prosecutor at the end of my term, in the last two months, have taken - individual cases on a special order - to the services of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue are probably the only or most of which have been completed even now - after my term of office, I do not say that they have been completed during the course of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u314	As there was clearly no misunderstanding, I would remind you that in addition to Secretary-General of Public Revenue you served as minister, Mr Papaconstantinou, and Secretary-General of Information Systems. And you refer to the first, Mr. Theocharis, that you have received knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u315	Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u316	What does that matter for today's debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u317	That is why your call to the committee responsible has been requested and has never been accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u318	You'll bring me the document...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u319	Good. Okay. You've heard of it for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u320	Yeah, for the first time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u321	Now, in relation to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u322	Based on what document did I get knowledge of the Lagard list?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u323	Mr. Theochari, do you hear it for the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u324	For the first time. Yes, of course. From you. For the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u325	In other words, have you not followed the procedure at all and that your call, which, together with the New Democracy, PASOK, was being demanded, did I not remember whether it was DRMAR - was never accepted? Do you hear it for the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u326	I hear it for the first time. But anyway, there's never been any calls. If he'd come...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u327	Good. These are public and I would be happy to put them to you. Well, it's public as facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u328	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u329	Don't turn it into another subject now. Let's talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u330	But I would like to close it. It's a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u331	Okay. Come on, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u332	You put it all the time and you bring it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u333	On a point of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u334	Just a moment, Madam President. You personally, in many of your speeches you have raised the matter that I was a adviser to the Minister of Finance. So to lift this misunderstanding, as I was typically under the Minister of Finance at the time, Mr Papaconstantinou, I had not seen him once in a while. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I never saw it once. I say this for the Minutes of Parliament, for the Greek people, to hear the truth once. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I was hired by the then Secretary-General of Information Systems Mr. Diomedi Spinelli. Because I had a degree abroad, which was not recognized by IATAP, I started the recognition process. Because the Secretary-General did not have the right to recruit a person who did not have a recognized degree, and the Minister had, at that time, begged the Minister of Finance and formally placed me on his own team, because he had the right to recruit a consultant without a degree, until the recognition procedure was carried out. By then, however, the two positions of the Secretary-General were paid, so I could not then get under Dimmed Spinelli. Therefore, this was the only relationship I had with the then Minister of Finance, Mr Papaconstantinou, whom I saw for the first time, I as Secretary-General of Information Systems and he as Minister of the Environment, at a meeting of the Committee on Geographical Data. That was a year later. So please, at least in the House, do not raise this question again, because I had nothing to do with the operational work that was done at the Ministry of Finance at the time. I was advisor to the then Secretary General for Information Systems Mr. Diomedi Spinelli. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u335	It was recorded, Mr. Theochari, and your intervention. You have no complaints that I have deprived you of the opportunity to clarify and it is quite clear what you have said, in relation to your degree and recognition, etc. Now Mr Katsotis has spoken, which has not been given the floor. I shall then make a proposal to you on the procedure, which I have been trying to do for a long time. Here you go, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u336	Madam President, this morning, when we were all dealing with the draft law that was posted on the site of this House, there were all the ministerial amendments there, except for its last number. 122/58. And I imagine you've known since this morning that these amendments that have been posted or were in line with the draft law we are discussing or not. You cannot come 12 and a half hours and raise these issues which we have discussed throughout the afternoon, no matter what position each has for the amendment, the second, the third. You come 12 and a half hours and you raise the issue, and you know that since this morning these amendments have been posted on Parliament's website in the bill. Why are you doing this? We're from eight o'clock here, all of you coming in here, twelve and a half hours and you raise a point. I mean, mercy! Mercy, really!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u337	Mr Katsotis, because the JRC does not applaud, but because you are on your own from the JRC, you have received the credit from the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u338	That's us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u339	Well, listen to me. The procedure must be followed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u340	Didn't you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u341	Listen a little. I didn't understand your spirit: it's too late, so let's forget about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u342	I hear you, but since this morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u343	Since this morning there has been a process, which has been going on and is going on right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u344	You guys at this time when you're opening it up...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u345	And before the process is closed, all the issues that have been dealt with must be dealt with, unless you propose to swallow them. Because I can't believe you're suggesting that we swallow them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u346	You guys at this time when you open it, don't you want to swallow it? Who's here at this hour? You're the one who opens it for a 12-and-a-half hour, who's out of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u347	The room is full, at least three wings from five. And that is the good thing, that in this parliamentary term - I am sorry if some parties choose not to come or go - the House is full. It's chosen and decided, and that's how it should be. It must be clear the House doesn't get to sleep. I do not understand your spirit, because my intervention is protectionist to the parliamentary procedure. We asked the Ministers for clarification. They have been explained from the point of view of the Ministers. The House will assess whether these are sufficient. What I am proposing in this House and I am announcing is that we take care to give time to anyone who still wants to come and sit down and sit down. We don't do any procedures at this time, and don't invite me to do it. I won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u348	I didn't invite you. You're doing it with the attitude you're holding. You come and do it 12 and a half hours a night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u349	But you're kidding?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u350	I'm kidding? Then come in this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u351	Where are your MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u352	The amendments have been posted since the morning since yesterday. Did you see them? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u353	Mr. Catasta...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u354	If you didn't see them, say you didn't see them. You should've raised the matter since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u355	...I inform you that at least I, as President, perform my duties of the President-in-Office a lot longer than was done by my predecessors. To resign, because I was in the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt - which you have denounced, but for some it is important - or to resign because I was in the selection for the Committee of Inquiry for the Memorandum, that is your choice. I'm here. I'm doing my job. The issues have been raised. What I am proposing is that we give the floor now to three speakers. I would like to inform you, as a whole, that the remaining speakers are sixteen. My suggestion is that everyone should talk. I propose that we give the floor to three more, and then that the votes provided for should take place. In the event of a dispute, the House shall decide. The process will be done with a stimulus. We've done it before. We've said it. If there is any objection to this proposal, let it be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u356	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u357	Do you object, Mr. Petrako?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u358	I have proposed, Madam President, that the procedure be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u359	Mr Petrakos, the Bureau has heard this, but this is so that there is no argument to anyone - I said before - that it is a surprise. Already the debate has been going on for some time. Maybe anyone who wants to come and be placed. The three speakers are 15 minutes. It's not more than that. Don't talk about shadows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u360	The others are gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u361	We have sixteen speakers, Mr. Petrakos. In any case, you're also a parliamentary representative and you're going to stay to the end. Mr. Mitafidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u362	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to talk about the virtues of this bill and of a little of the law, which deserves an important part of the victims of the social cannibalism policy implemented by the predecessors of this government. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that a fight is justified and, if you will, and my personal satisfaction, because those who have fought together with the victims of this policy have defended them against the Javerters - because some of its expressions have worked - who are still insisting today. At least those of us who were in the field of self-government until recently have been at the forefront of the prosecution authorities of the previous government, because we have defended the right to these people's work, because we have refused to cooperate with redundancies. So the fight now is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u363	Mr. Christos Smias has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u364	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating these days has two very important phrases which condense, in the simplest way, the content of our policy and its relevance to the people's demands. From the squares of the whole country and from the trade unions all over the last few years a word has been heard louder than anyone else: the word 'consciousness'. And democracy and justice are the most fundamental foundations of dignity. We had made an election commitment, what has always been in the most basic positions of the Left, that we will change the model of public administration, that we will end with bureaucracy and build a public administration that respects itself and the citizen. And this bill is a start in this direction. But let us see a few things more specifically: this draft law goes through a single line. The public administration's awareness of the role it has to perform, which is not the organisation and service of the public interest. To say this more simply, a democratic state needs a democratic administration which, in fact, is twice democratic, both in itself and in terms of society. Chapter 1 of the draft law is already in progress, where, in essence, the use of the institution of political backing against the exercise of the trade union freedoms of workers is effectively abolished. The task of a democratic administration is to give citizens rights and opportunities and not to oblige them to be subjected to passive discipline and compulsion. When the states are fair to the citizens, they have nothing to fear. She doesn't need any measures of intimidation or strike mechanisms. In the same context, rationalisation and democratisation of the Disciplinary Law, which restores to the administration two of the most fundamental elements of its constitution, the constitutionally guaranteed presumption of innocence and the negligence of trade union and social action. Colleagues and colleagues, I am not cutting glaukas in Athens if I say that we have a difficult and painful negotiation in front of us. And we really have terrible attacks and slanders, both from the international and the domestic press, about our negotiating tactics. They blame us for being too hard, and the other thing that we don't have red lines. They blame us for throwing the country on the rocks - where others have long been driving it - and on the other hand for engaging in sport, where they themselves have made a master now, namely cubism. All this is only a single plan of attack on a government, which knows how to say 'no' and negotiate in the interests of the Greek people. If the political forces that supported the Memorandum of Understandings in previous years and outside the House have learned to submit, this gives us the obligation to stand up and recover the dignity of this people. The bills for the relaunching of the economy, for dealing with the humanitarian crisis and for the ERT, which have already been passed, as well as the health bill, which will soon be put into consultation and this bill that we are discussing and will be voting on today, are for us the red lines of our government. And they are red, because the Greek people pulled them and why a left government is called upon to keep them intact. They are red, because we are not asking for the approval of anyone to implement them. They're red, because we're willing to fight for them. So, red line is to resurrect a broken public administration and bring back to work people who were illegally or unjustly fired. And you do this without needing anyone's permission, outside the Greek people, and restoring the injustices committed against the weakest social groups, on the pretext of social benefit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. We did not allow the school guards to become the workers in the Municipal Police, the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, the teachers of technical education to become north on the altar of the Memorandum Options. Let us not forget, however, the struggle of public workers, who, in their persistent efforts, have absolved and effectively canceled the choice of the Memorandum governments, so listen to the availability of redundancies by means of preliminary evaluations. Nowhere in the civilised world has there been such an intention of mass manslaughter of 15% of workers per year on the altar of reducing labour costs, with a full redistribution of frightened workers, who alone would be a public job instead of a lenty plate. However, the world of work placed them where they were, even if they have not yet been at ease. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, has my full approval. I won't just vote for it because I'm a SYRIZA MEP. I will vote for it for the more than two thousand who have been made available and will return to work, for the thousands of nine hundred redundant people who will get back to work, and for the six thousand assignees of the ADP, who will fill considerable gaps in a deported state structure. I'll vote for it for all the red lines it sets. I shall vote for it because it is the child of another policy and because it strengthens the foundations of a democratic administration which recognises and respects its role. Finally, I will vote for it because it serves all the main reasons why the Greek people brought us to this Chamber and gave us the government order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr. Christos Smia. Mr Dimitris Dimitriadis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u366	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is a first blow, not only in the institutional logic of the Memorandum of Understanding, but also in the neoliberal perspective. This draft law is a first, but necessary, effort towards democratising administration, rationalising disciplinary law, reducing bureaucracy and, above all, restoring injustices. In short, it is a principle of the essential reforms they are going to follow, but it already includes very important interventions. Indicative of the importance of these interventions is the fact that a large number of bodies were present at the meeting of the committee responsible, most of which were positively involved in the arrangements of the bill, thus demonstrating their broad acceptance by society, despite the fact that this was not the case by the media. As the Minister said, there are going to be further substantial reforms in these areas, for the benefit of the public interest, far from customer tactics, by crushing the reforms introduced by the previous government. The previous government has produced a climate of fear and insecurity for civil servants, has targeted them, incriminated them, called them super-numerous and weakened public services. The current government, however, aims to reverse this climate by introducing this draft law, while remaining consistent with its election commitments. How is this attempted? First of all, political mission to deal with strikes is forbidden. In fact, it is not forbidden to order, but to ensure that it is not misused. The political backing is an authoritarian move, while it was used as a strike mechanism during the Memorandum. The fact is that in forty years there had been six recruitments in the Memorandum as well six. Beyond this provision, in the direction of the fight against the climate of terrorisation of civil servants, the presumption of the innocence of civil servants and the establishment of a potential holiday is restored. Self-determination is maintained only in specific cases and where it is considered extremely necessary. It is also possible for workers to participate in the disciplinary boards and it is explicitly laid down that it does not constitute inappropriate or inappropriate behaviour or unworthy of an employee to conduct trade union, political or social activity. The strictness of the Disciplinary Law was a way of intimidating civil servants, depriving them of their conquests and rights, as well as the possibility of flexibility and initiative. Dismissals in the public, like the institution of availability, have had huge economic and social negative consequences, and they have created major problems in the functioning of the public sector. The problem of the State was never the number of civil servants, but their irresponsible distribution, due, of course, to the customer state. Dismissal or being made unaccompanied by evaluation and proper planning, while, as the example of clearers, it was not the financial benefit, not only did it solve problems, but it caused functional problems in important areas, such as education and municipal police. This draft law restores the injustices involved. The institution of availability shall be abolished and the staff made redundant or made available, including the forty-six specialities of the ESDP abolished, the school guards, the administrative staff of the universities and the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance shall be reintroduced. Voluntary forms of mobility are introduced in order to make full use of the public-private potential and to place immediately the successes of previous AACC competitions. Here I would like to focus a little on the completion of the experience of the truth, to which I am a part. What I am experiencing is the fact that we are doing and doing things for which, in the previous period, we have committed ourselves to doing so, to faces and situations, particularly those that we had to restore. And today we're doing it. Another important first step, taken through the bill, is to try to reduce bureaucracy, with a view to faster and more effective service for citizens, but also to reducing operating costs. In this context, arrangements shall be made by applying the automatic search for documents from the public services, electronic issuing of certificates and by maintaining an electronic record from the AACC. Finally, the electronic handling of public sector documents is ensured as a due energy of the administration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It is also important and an institutional section is the abolition of the post of the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration. It is an attempt, in the direction of ensuring the functionality of the public, without party criteria. This bill is not our last word, but the first of a new era for the state, the public space and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr. Demetriadis. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u368	But we said three speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u369	All right, they'll talk four. What are you protesting? Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u370	The issues of the draft law are included in the major reforms, which should be discussed in detail in this House, and which need to be carried out in the country, in order to achieve production, administrative, development, cultural reconstruction from the barbarity of the tragic conditions undertaken by the new government, after 'the years of cholera'. I will not analyse, ladies and gentlemen, the changes made to the Disciplinary Law for its rationalisation, the restoration of the presumption of innocence, the new rules on self-righteous holidays and disciplinary penalties. I will not analyse the participatory procedures in staffing the IASC, in choosing the Citizens' Counselor and his assistants, nor in simplifying the recruitment procedures for seasonal staff. I would just like to point out that the draft law does not restore all the dismissals and dismissal of branches for officials, management and services who have never been assessed for the work they have done. I would also like to point out that the two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Health, in order to repay the worked overtime of workers in the National Health System, in the PEDY and in order to cover explosive gaps in the public health system more quickly, serve the needs that the neoliberal memorandum policy conducted during the period of complete indifference to the right to health. This morning Mr Kedicoglou told us that the right to health is above the right to work, to strike. Apparently, however, it was not above the memorial commitments of dramatic cuts in health and freezing of all recruitments of medical, nursing and laboratory personnel, clinics and departments which close, in intensive units, emergency departments, in the health centres of the islands and in difficult areas, and so on. In other words, the representatives of the New Democracy, PASOK and the River have today denounced the Government for its attitude to the process of negotiating debt, its loan needs for its service, its viability. Either you join our policy or the country will be destroyed, PASOK President Venizelos told us in the middle of the morning that the debt is technically viable, manageable, useful, because that is how he demands the International Monetary Fund. Accession to their own policy is out of the question! They led to excessive deficits and scandals in Greece in an interdependent, corrupt, inefficient state - and even today resist the radical change that is being proposed - in incredible mediation and transactions, in appalling tax evasion and now agree with the requirements of lenders who forget the values with which the United Europe was created and blackmail the implementation of the entire neoliberal agenda. We are talking about group redundancies in the country of unemployment, horizontal cuts and low pensioners, with the zero deficit clause, annulment of the draft law on freedom of collective bargaining, which, throughout Europe, is in force, but which continue to be the case for the ENPI, which must be changed and made a tax on large immovable property, divestment of public property and the first residence of Greek citizens. The neoliberal agenda cannot pass through a left-wing government, the first in Western Europe, which is afraid to influence developments in Spain, Portugal, Italy and so on. Will the country be destroyed if we do not sign the submission, humiliation, impoverishment, recession, the perpetuation of the neoliberal model, as Mr Venizelos says? Let us not worry the perpetrators of Greece's destructive course in recent years. This country has greatness, has comparative advantages, natural wealth, historical monuments. She's beautiful and gifted. They won't rob her. It has a human potential with enormous skills, studies, knowledge, skill, which, if exploited in our country, will not let it be destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr Athanasios Scumas, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor, and Mr Dannelis, Member of the House from the Potami is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u372	What will happen, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u373	Aren't we going to vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u374	There are three others, four speakers. There are some consultation with the members of the Bureau. We'll have some patience. Mr. Scuma, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u375	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard many positions that have converged in an essential project from the standpoint of counter-population, either from New Democracy or from PASOK, but also from Potami, which is supposed to be a new party. This project and the whole concept, to say this, is now incorporated: the government is creating a party state, it has ethical issues, the government is leading to decoupling, that is to say it promotes with the bill themes with which, instead of improving matters in public administration, it is becoming the opposite. But there is a moral issue. I have heard from various speakers that there is a direct issue of moral order. The people who were affected by the Memorandum and who were fired is a matter of moral order to be restored, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u376	Of course it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u377	So vote for the bill. If you don't vote for the bill, you're making a moral blow. You do not contribute with your vote to the return of these people who were affected by the memorials and who have been fired unconstitutionally and illegally. You cannot say both PASOK and the New Democracy that we are going to the party state. Who's saying that? Those who created the full disrepute of the possibility of rights in the public interest? In other words, those who have effectively abolished the possibility of using public officials and exercising their legal rights? Is that what you want? If you wish, you may not vote for the reinstatement of the possibility for civil servants to appeal to the disciplinary bodies and have the rights provided for in the Constitution. But to say this directly, not all of you hiding together - all three - behind everything you can imagine, but which has no real significance for the progress of this country and for the progress of public administration, which the past few years have served, have shaped the client state, have developed the relationship between the dependence of the private sector and a public administration which has served private interests to the detriment of the public interest. And this was intensified in the period of the Memorandum. They created immunity for the boards of directors of the CFSF and the CFD and they come to talk about the absence of disciplinary control. Who? Those who got rid of any action beforehand of the administrative boards, which were able, precisely because of their interconnection with the memorandum, to apply the most extreme memorandum policies, to sack people from the public, to reduce private wages and to get workers, due to the abolition of labour rights, to the private sector. Finally, they come here to tell us that the country is being destroyed, because a government is negotiating and putting red lines and possibly there is a real political change that can overthrow austerity and lay different bases for a different policy across Europe. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] So you can't think about that for yourself, because you're on a different wavelength. Of course, you are doing something else: you are attacking the members of the government, because you are aiming at the destruction of people, because you think that you will cause the government to fail and you will be able to proceed with the various scenarios that you are working together with the lenders again in new memorandum policies. But you have something to forget. You've forgotten the cleaners, you've forgotten the school guards, you've forgotten the unemployed who gave this government the majority in order to change this policy. This policy that is currently being implemented is a policy that the Greek people have asked for. The Greek people, therefore, enable the country to change, to return rights and today an important step is being taken towards the democratisation of public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr. Skuma. I was informed by Mrs Charalabidou that she has already spoken to Mr Danellis. Immediately after Mr. Dannelly, we're going to do the escalation process. So the MPs who came out, for the time being, get in to get this process done. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u379	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will all agree that the remodelling of public administration is the mother of reforms. The very characteristics of the Greek public administration, I think, are all agreed that they should be changed. I am referring to this particular Balkan example of administration, which everyone as opposition loves to judge, but as a government they forget to reform. We expected a bill, which would make the public administration a lever to restart the tested Greek economy and the necessary effort to develop. We have been prevented from getting out of the crisis by looking for the way in which we will produce national wealth, which will also bring solid jobs, Minister, and which this public administration is impossible to support. It is a common place that e-government is the key to combating corruption. We should not forget that an important factor in corruption, in the exercise of public administration, is interpersonal contact and relationship. A catalyst for breaking this relationship is modern and efficient e-government. What forecasts have you made as a government so that the funds for the 2014-2020 financial period are not lost? What would be the most appropriate time for this debate, if not this meeting, in which we are discussing a bill that says it is intended to combat bureaucracy? We, too, agree that the redundancies of civil servants during the previous period were irrational, unjust and ineffective, without any profit for the country's budgetary figures. Today's bill obviously can resolve this injustice, at least to its greatest extent, but at the same time it could go a step further. Because the reinstatement of dismissal officials back to their services is not enough in itself to reorganise the public administration and its effectiveness. I think, however, that the culmination of an amoralist approach and the service of 'the purpose justifies the means' has to do with the amendment on 'DENGY'. An amendment that expresses intentions, which in essence seeks to draw off 'HUMANY', which is perhaps the most reforming product of the agitated period 2009-20012, the most effective tool for transparent control of the disposal of public money. "DENMARK" is an institution that survived two failed attempts to be destroyed, which fortunately failed, precisely because of the reaction and from the side of government MPs, both in 2013 and 2014. We now see the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict coming and trying to destroy the most left-wing reform done for the operation of the state. If the amendment is finally in force, there will be a very bad precedent, which we very much fear will be repeated in the future, until the programme becomes an empty shell and, if matters arise, there are other procedures, there is a different methodology, lawfulness, which can solve problems that have been mainly in government, without questioning the structure of 'HUMANY'. Finally, I would like to refer to an amendment by the Ministry of Labour, which concerns the amendment of provisions of 4312/14 on daily care centres for elderly people, day care centres for disabled people and Roma support centres and vulnerable groups. As the amendment is structured, Mr Minister, there are forty-four bodies operating as daily care centres for HEIs, they are said to be, and the vast majority belong to parent associations, serving over a thousand four hundred HEIs. It wants an improvement, I can give you a proposal which I would ask you to take into account, because an injustice is created that needs to be restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u380	We've already made a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u381	It's not complete. As I am aware, it is not complete, but I hope it is completed. Thank you very much. And I hope and think that, since we agree that the great reform that the public needs is a precondition for starting procedures that support any proposal for a sustainable economy in the country, there we will find common paths to support such a reform that the public will be the prerequisites for such a sustainable model of country reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u382	Well, everybody in here - from what I can see, there has to be the quorum needed - to do the process. With regard to the amendments, we are starting from General Protocol 88 on a specific Protocol 35 from 27 to 24 April 2015 on the financing of political parties. It's in the short term. What the House decides about, in accordance with the Constitution and Article 74(5), is whether it has anything to do with the bill. In particular, Article 74 states: ‘Legislation or a proposal for a law containing provisions which are irrelevant to their main purpose shall not be introduced for discussion. No addition or amendment shall be introduced for discussion if it is not related to the main object of the bill or proposal. In the event of a dispute, the Parliament shall decide.’. I raised a question from the Bureau on the relevance, that is, if there is any connection to the bill. The explanations given by the Minister, Mr Voutsi, have been made by the parliamentary representatives and now, as the Constitution defines, the House will decide whether this amendment has something to do with the main object. I will describe the procedure and then vote. Those who consider it relevant to the bill are raised, those who consider that it has nothing to do with the bill remain the same and those who want to declare "Watch" will ask you to do it by raising hands. So those who consider this amendment to be relevant and should be introduced into a debate and a vote to be raised. [[Receiving the proposal]] It seemed the difference. They were manifestly more those who rose up. Are there Members of Parliament who say 'Paris'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u384	Mr Katsotis declares "Communities" in terms of JRC. More Members have therefore manifestly risen. So this amendment will be put to a roll-call vote tomorrow. Are they one of those put in roll-call votes? Has she been asked for her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u385	It is for the fifteen Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u386	There has been no roll-call vote for it from any party. It will therefore enter the voting process after the end of the speech. The second amendment on which the issue of relevance has been raised concerns the posting of overturning commitments in the ‘DENMARK’ programme. And that's a time-consuming one. The dispute is raised in relation to the relevance. Those Members who are put in their position that they are related to the bill and must therefore be put to debate and vote to rise. [[Receiving the proposal]] Have a seat. Are there Members of Parliament declaring 'Paris'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u388	Mr Katsotis from the JRC declares "Firms" It is therefore clear that most Members judge and vote in favour of the debate and vote. This amendment will be put into roll-call vote tomorrow at 16.00 this afternoon, when the roll-call vote on the amendments and provisions on which it has been requested will take place in total. The third amendment is the one tabled today by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry responsible for the bill and concerns the completion of the legislative act by 20-4-2015 validated by Mr. In addition, the Commission considers that the restructuring plan of the Bank of Greece does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. The issue and relevance of this amendment has been raised. We'll have a separate vote. In relation to the relevance, those who vote in favour that there is a relevance to the main object of the bill to be raised. [[Receiving the proposal]] Have a seat. Are there Members of Parliament declaring the relevance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u389	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u390	Mr Katsotis declares "Saints" in relation to the relevance. It is manifestly more than the Members who raised themselves in favour of relevance. We are entering the vote by means of a motion of censure in relation to the delay. Members who consider that, although late, they should be voted on to rise. [[Receiving the proposal]] Have a seat. Are there Members of Parliament declaring 'Paris'? Therefore, Mr Kathotis, it is clear that you have distinguished your position. You said 'Faiths' in relation to the relationship and 'No' that it should not be discussed in relation to the delay. It is therefore clear that there are more Members who have been in favour of discussing these three amendments on which the matter has been raised, and that there has been a doubt on the part of the Bureau. By a majority vote in Parliament, the two amendments on which a roll-call vote has been requested will be put for roll-call vote together with the others tomorrow at 16.00. The one for which no roll-call vote has been requested, namely the one on the financing of the political parties, will be put to the vote at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u391	What meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u392	This evening's sitting, which we shall also be voting on. We're going slowly. Mrs. Dimitrios Vitsas from SYRIZA, Nina Kasimatis, from SYRIZA, Mrs. Helen Aylonitou from SYRIZA, Mrs. Merciarlidou from SYRIZA from SYRIZA, Mr. George Amyras from Potami, Mr. Ioannis Gerdelis from SYRIZA, Mr. Iason Fotimas from Potami and myself, who will speak at the end as a member of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u393	I have asked for a dentistry as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u394	You have asked for a dentistry as rapporteur. Okay, you're right. The rapporteurs who wish to exercise the right of dentistry to state this. The Members of Parliament should not leave because the vote should be taken by quorum. So everyone who has voted that we must vote on all this, remain for the vote, so that there is a quorum. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u395	I quit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u396	Mrs Nina Kasimatis has the floor. We must respect the right of all Members to speak and those who have exercised the right to listen to those who have not yet spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u397	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, 6 May 2015 is on the agenda. Five years ago, the grand and unprecedented popular mobilization against the resolution of the memorandum was lifted by the murder of workers who were burned alive in Marfin and who never discovered their killers. They were the first to be sacrificed in the chain of thousands that would follow to deprive the Memorandum. Who has benefited? Well, not the popular movement. Because the next day, like tomorrow's dawn, was voted on in the urgency procedure and with controversial majorities, the notorious memorandum. We all know them well, some on our side - the many - and a few on their bank account, which was inflamed and threw into places far away. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] How, who and why will the Committee on Truth for Debt Control and the Committee of Inquiry into the Memorandum of Understanding, which was set up today and to which I have the honour of being rapporteur for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group? Why am I making this introduction? Beyond the "black" anniversary that we are going through for Greek democracy and the Greek society, our bill as if he wanted to respond to the irony of history. By restoring injustices, it raises the question of the state, the public, of the first concept that was raised before the people by the slenders of the glutton. Why is it the power of a state and, in particular, the power of a democratic state? Before all, it's the idea that embodies it, to borrow Ziggler's words. So the memorial and memorial powers - because we have been listening lately to memorial powers - are, in addition to the parties that voted for and implemented the Memorandums, the ones that existed as ideological mechanisms that prepared and promoted the Memorandum Policies. This is also the sensitive river that, along with the PASOK and the new Republic, in terms of matching policy objectives, is the new internal troika. Therefore, memorial and memorial powers, loyal to the fourth principle of Washington's consensus, which defines the dismantling of the public sector, while, above all, privatising all undertakings belonging to the State or to the wider public sector, have led to the current state of society and economic and socially and efficiently in terms of public service. The myth of the great state quickly collapsed with the census. I will not go into it because many colleagues have mentioned the average conditions. In the meantime, however, they managed to turn private sector workers against those of the public sector and then organized mass unemployment. The counter-reformists were not intended to rationalise - and I am now addressing a New Democracy and a PASOK - unless it makes sense to leave them unpaid, to lead them to dismissal, resignation and impoverishment, thirty employees throughout Greece who served in the children and student libraries in the Greek province. Did the absent austerity implement a lot of the public with this decision? Or did they streamline when they fired? I am opening a parentheses, because the availability in fact, not to be fooled, is the beginning, the road, to turn back the clock of history before Eleftherios Venizelos, who established permanentity in public. So you fired the teachers of technical education by opening the way to private IEKs, university administrators, school guards, cleaners - who put the glasses on you with their struggle - the Municipal Police. You have watched superstitious and repressive metro workers, the teachers, for too long. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd like some time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u398	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u399	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, who can forget the massive, coup d'état dismissal of the two and a half thousand ERT workers with the pineapple 'black', which frozen Greece and marked the beginning of their end, a reform that was a dismissal, just to serve the budgetary objective, which of course could not be caught? I am truly surprised by the Civic Opposition that he chose for rapporteur in this bill of democratisation - such as today - the man from the position of the Minister of State took the 'Black' of the ERT on June 11, 2013 and I am referring personally, because he himself chose his party, extraterritorial suggestion to speak on staff. In our ancient ancestors, in so far as it distinguished them, even in the great dramatic turnings of tragedies, an unwritten moral law was forbidden to remind the public of the evils involved. Regarding the Minister, Mr Katrugalos, the attack on his face, the coordinated for many days and months, is an attack on the right word, on the public word that departs from the dominant line. For in the black years of the monodrome, George Katrugalos defended not only the fairs of the workers, but also his science, when at the same time the constitutionalists of service disproved the Constitution, to legitimise his trespass. To end, then, with the candy of conflict of interest. Everyone must understand that on 25 January the Memorandum of Understanding fell by the vote of the Greek people and the government is implementing a specific programme of its own, which is identical to the people's interests. Conflict of interest for us is family rule and the offspring that swing our fingers a hundred years. This government is tabling this draft law, and the crucial negotiation with the lenders has already entered the final straight. We are legislating at all levels to decentralise our country's Memorandum of Understanding from the European institutional and social acquis, since some are very sensitive Europeans. We restore social and legal order. This is how we legislate at the request of the Greek people and not at the suggestion of lenders. In fact, the parties of the 'troika internal', New Democracy and PASOK, except for the river that remained to become their voices, are absent today. Finally, I believe that all democratic citizens must be assembled, as they have done for three months, not bent, soldiered with the government and with the Prime Minister in new struggles and mobilisations against the policy of austerity and dependence. We, ladies and gentlemen, mean nothing but Members of a sovereign Greek state, a sovereign people, who do not kneel and will not kneel, as the historic struggle of public workers has taught. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u400	Thank you, Mrs. Cassimatis. Mrs Eleni Aylonitou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor and Mrs Karasarlidou is prepared. Here, Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u401	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill: "Democratisation of Administration - Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions" takes on a number of important issues. However, I would like to dwell on some of these issues, which directly or indirectly touch local government, since I have been elected self-government in the Galatian Municipality for years and have lived close to all these issues at the Galatian Municipal Council. Article 18 provides for the re-establishment of sectors repealed under Memorandum Measures, on the pretext of saving State resources. In this way, the qualifications of teachers from the professional high school and of the business schools that had been abolished and the specialty of school guards is being reconstituted. The abolition of the relevant branches has caused extremely serious problems at the level of municipalities, since the municipalities are responsible for the operation of primary and secondary school units. The abolition of ESDP and ESDP branches left a number of students out of training who were looking for basic professional qualifications in the public school system and who were not able to afford to send their children to private IEKs. Children 17 years old, studying hairdressers, decorators and sanitaries were thrown out of school with their teachers from the previous government to achieve - it says - this way the country's development is achieved, because this is how the country's monumental development is achieved, by throwing students out of their schools! After the vote on today's bill, I can go to the children of the second PAAL Galatium and their parents and tell them that they have now acquired the right to continue their studies. As for the specialty of school guards, their existence is not without the proper functioning of schools, at least in Lefkanopedia, where I have experienced the problem. With regard to the year, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by focusing in particular on the amendment I have signed with many colleagues in the parliamentary group. It concerns the cessation of criminal and disciplinary proceedings against officials of the local authorities in the event of the non-trial courts. To date, each mayor was obliged to draw to a second degree any trial that would be lost, usually for a work difference, whether it contributed to the municipality or not. If he didn't, there was criminal and disciplinary proceedings. So the amendment now lifts the criminality of these democracies and ceases all persecutions against them. But the problem that this amendment corrects is an indication of the intrinsic irrationality of the'reformism' that it has occupied some of the Vice-Presidents. Many who are'reforming' raise a specific objection to public services, that they do not work very well on private-private profit criteria. Let us therefore assume, in the interests of debate, that acting on these criteria - the criteria of profit - is always good, something desirable. Do you know any private business, which always draws all its own courts to the court for the sake of principle? In a private business, the owner or director weighs the chances of winning, weighing the costs, weighing the time lost and deciding when it is in no interest to start a trial and when it is in the interest to get it to the court. Would you ever make a law that would oblige all businesses to go to the court of appeal? I guess not. But why was this absurd term imposed on the mayors? Minister, after all this, I would suggest another title for this bill, more appropriate. For example, it could be pointed out: 'Extreme cases of irrationalities in the Greek public administration'. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in voting for today's bill, I am really proud that I contribute with my vote to the vindication of the history of the struggles of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u402	Thank you to Mrs Aylonitou and to the strict observance of time. The reason for five minutes is SYRIZA's MP, Karasardou Euphoria and will be followed by Mr. George Amyras from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u403	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Colleagues, corruption, inefficiency, customer relations and elitism are being targeted by the government. They are trying to change this bill so that the public administration can come to the citizens and be democratised, be with them and serve them. In particular, at a time of tragic economic crisis, we want such a public one, where the weakest economic strata to get better services. The bill aims to combat bureaucracy. It introduces a series of arrangements for the automatic search for documents, the electronic issue of certificates and the electronic handling of public documents. Many services are being upgraded, the institution of the ASP and of the Citizen's Co-legislator is being strengthened. The position of the Secretary-General shall be abolished and replaced by a position of coordinator in each decentralised administration, through which the sovereignty is strengthened and the ex-cooperativeisation of the State is achieved. We do not want a party state. We need areas to be able to show all those competent and worthy civil servants, regardless of their political beliefs, who are today frustrated or even neglected by the way in which the public sector operates. It is important for us to transform the crisis that we are experiencing into an opportunity for a new productive society, without the distortions and perceptions of the past, but with the proper management of our country's human resources. Our bet is a definitive change of state and governance for the better. The time has come when basic freedoms and rights are restored, such as, for example, political returning and ordering, presumption of innocence and the revocation of all commemorative dismissals and available assets. In recent years there has been a horizontalheading in public administration, but only the most vulnerable groups of workers. The choices of previous governments have caused tragic consequences for society as a whole, created open wounds and legitimised injustice. The citizens and most of us have expressed our wrath about what we have had to suffer in recent years. In response to all this, we are sending out a message in all directions: we will not continue the disastrous work of the previous governments. A state cannot and must not create conflict relationships. We do not want to see any employee from us, because that is the only way we build relationships of confidence and that is the only way we can provide as a state the best possible. This, of course, does not mean that we will not be strict in any shortcomings. We admit the pathogens and we try to change them. That's our message. The Civic Opposition accuses us of restraining the reforms. In other words, they call'reforms' the implementation of neoliberal policies, which have essentially destroyed basic public social goods. We, however much they blame us, are putting an end to the obvious injustices and the huge negative social and economic impact on citizens, workers and society as a whole. Reforms for us have a completely different meaning, are aimed at a rule of law that is not a party and a public administration for all citizens. It is ironic that the Qualified Opposition talk about less public state. Who, for example, has in the service of most police officers, civil servants, that is, us or them? Their behaviour towards the public in general is unreasonable. When it suits them, they use it to farm. Otherwise, they fight it to the end. A rule of law, a state of seriousness, following on from time, cannot behave in this way. I believe that Articles 14-21 are an important move in political but above all in human and moral terms. The dismissal of groups of workers in public services, made under the Memorandum of Understanding, was not about operational priorities, but about narrow fiscal targets. The then government, not thinking about man but about numbers, was struggling to achieve its commitments. But this vicious circle must finally end here. The injustices of five years to end. It is not possible for a European Union country to function as a country - debt colony. This bill is a start for the end of the adequacy of the party and the client state in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u404	Thank you, Mrs. Karasarlidou. Mr. George Amyras from the river has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u405	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to acknowledge a talent for the government and the SYRIZA ministers to give imaginable titles to the bills coming. Democratisation of Public Administration, combating bureaucracy and e-government cannot go hand in hand with the extinguishing, the denseing of "GENERAL" and the unlucky, agarbo based on the independent authorities, their structure, composition, function. So the title's nice, but the essence isn't there. I was not going to talk about the amendment that we accepted, in terms of its relevance, that it should be discussed in this House a little while ago and voted tomorrow. Therefore, Amendment No 88 and Protocol No 35, tabled on 27-4-2015, is an amendment to the law not only on the financing of political parties, but also on the same law, n. 4304/2014 on the control of the economics of parties, MPs and candidates. What does this amendment say? Did you see her? Did you study it? This amendment reads as follows: While so far the law I have told you about the control of the economics of the parties, the MPs and the candidates, has set a deadline, one month from the election, so that the parties who took part in the elections under the umbrella of a coalition, can state the percentages that are entitled to state funding, you come, ladies and gentlemen, and what are you doing? For 2015, for the current year - this amendment you are going to vote on - the one month deadline is five months, without explaining why. And not only that - I accept that, for technical reasons, it must be done - but from time to time, this deadline is replaced by a phrase, if possible, which reads as follows: 'The declaration on the percentages of funding that parties are entitled to a coalition that goes down to the elections'. After the election, when? A month after the election? A year? Eternity? So be very careful about this amendment. What coalition of parties is it that, perhaps for technical reasons, did not make the necessary statements and lost the deadlines? Are they the Independent Greeks? I'm asking. They may not be the people, but mustn't the Minister give us an explanation? What amendment is this? For which party coalition are you cut off so that they don't lose state funding on an equal footing? In other words, if they do not say within a month, which has passed the deadline, the coalition parties that participated in the elections, they are evenly pumping the funding. I, however, say that for the good reason, it has been done for the technical reasons that may exist. But here we are chasing the arrow and we do not see the ox that passes through us and tramples our garzabas and our fruits and our flowers and everything. What's that ox? The ox is the same n. 4304/2014, the State Finance Act, and I insist on the rest of the wording you did not hear tonight about the control... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I'm going to need some time, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u406	You still have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u407	O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4304/2014, which defines the financing of parties and controls their finances, is an inactive law today that we are talking about. Why is he inactive, Minister? Because you have not adopted the ministerial decisions, you have not adopted the regulations so that we can proceed with the control of the parties, their finances and all Members of Parliament. What does this law, which was passed last October and came into force from 1-1-2015? It provides that all parties must keep class III books, with what this implies: publication - finally - of balance sheets, sworn accountants, thorough inspection. It provides for this law that all parties' dealings must be carried out through bank accounts and through banks, of course. This law provides for the codification of all legislation on the control of party spending and state funding, so that there is a single text of all this demonic corridor and labyrinth on the issues of parties' finances. And a fourth, very important, is that it provides for the setting-up of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the parties and Members. On 3-4-2015, I sent a letter to Mr. Voutsi, the Minister of the Interior, where I was putting these issues to him. I asked him to take immediate control of the electoral costs of parties and Members by energising the law and, finally, by setting up the Audit Committee. This letter, of course, was also communicated to the President of Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos. So here - to avoid misunderstandings of a technical nature, of course - I also have the protocol number, which is 1437/3-4-2015. [[Mr George Amyras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did the Minister respond to me, Mr. Voutsi? So he answered this. It's a page the answer. In three-quarters, the Minister's answer describes the law to us. We know him the law, Minister. But let's go to the truck. He's throwing the ball at the president of the parliament. Mr Voutissis said: Finally, we know that on the basis of the information provided by the relevant Parliamentary Office, in which you can also address more information and details, the above Committee on Audit - I say again that the core, the setting-up of this Committee, the procedure for controlling the parties' finances and Members' representatives - is expected to be set up in the near future. I answer the Minister's answer. [[Mr George Amyras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Excuse me for the expression, but I'll say it: Grab the egg and cut it! What will he say 'in the near future'? We therefore call on the President of Parliament, Mrs Konstantopoulou, to exercise its responsibility for the establishment of the new Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. You are all talking and saying - and you are doing very well - about the transparency that the political scene must finally have. We tell you to do it like the river. The River from the first day of its establishment deposites and postes the balance sheets and all financial data on the Internet. I'll testify to that, too. The river does not have a single euro bank loan. It's impeccable to all his financial obligations. I am also presenting these, and I hope that the rest of the parties will do the same, to present all the financial information that concerns them. [[Mr George Amyras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we told you, too, in the ERT bill. So we told you then that we must move directly on both broadcasting and the establishment of licensing rules. We are now telling you about the parties' finances: Action, move, do, finally adopt regulations. As long as the parties are uncontrolled in terms of their finances, the shadows that will cover us all will be bigger and larger. Citizens want control, they want transparency and the parties and the MPs need to be in the front line. So we will be here to remind you of doing what we consider to be necessary. Besides, the law itself provides for it, because otherwise we will tell you that you are like the previous ones, who so much likes to blame them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u408	Mr. Amyras, thank you too. You spoke nine whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u409	But I was in time six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u410	No, Mr. Amyras. Anyway, we won't have a dialogue right now. You fired charges against the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u411	Last time, you may not remember well, President was Mrs Constantopoulos and lasted for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u412	Madam President, could I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u413	Please, Mrs. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u414	I asked for the floor so that shadows would not be said and inaccurate. Mr. Amyras, I hope you will be informed now, as you are present and keep the briefing you receive well. The so-called ‘Emphasians Commission’, the law on which the 2014 Christmas Eve has changed and the composition of which is changed by the new law, is under construction, since various bodies and independent authorities have to appoint representatives. The order that has been followed is the logic, according to the order of business, that all the representatives involved and responsible should be designated and finally established by the definition of its chairman. In this respect, there was a matter for a representative to be appointed by the Anti-Fraud Authority, the Legalisation of Income from Criminal Activities. The Bank of Greece has been open to nominate a representative from the Bank of Greece. There was a loose end to the appointment of Deputy Vice-President to Vice-President Kaklamani and there was also a lack of transparency in the election of the Chairman of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency on the part of the House. These uncertainties began to be carried out during the parliamentary term. At the end of the Great Week, the last document on laundry was produced by the Authority. I have then called on the representatives of the two legitimate parties to appoint an alternate to the First Vice-President, Mr Kaklamanis, namely the representatives of your party, Potamio, and of the JRC, to consult and point out which of the two parties, which of the two Vice-Presidents, Mr Lykoudis or Mr Lambroulis, will be the deputy to Mr Kaklamanis, in order to complete his last looseness and also to appoint a Vice-President who will chair this committee. As we had discussed this several times at the Conference of Presidents, I expected that the preparatory work would have been done, that the agreement would have been reached and that the alternate would have been appointed here. However, when I raised the matter at the Conference of Presidents, present at your representatives - and perhaps Mr Theocharis will also - it was not ready for the Potami and the JRC to be a substitute. And so I judged, with the consent of the Conference, that a reasonable time-limit should be given for the representative to be appointed. This reasonable deadline was therefore given, which expired last Thursday, at the Conference last Thursday. During this conference there was no document from your parties, Potami and the JRC, which of the two Vice-Presidents would replace Mr Kaklamanis. And so I have asked for the wording to be made even verbally, so that it can be recorded in the Minutes. At the time of the drafting - and the sitting - there were only the representatives of the JRC who said orally that Potami is not interested in participating in this committee - in which you have developed how important it is - and that Mr Lambroulis will be a representative of Mr Kaklamanis. To be typical and because there was no representative of the River at the Conference, but the statement was made only by the JRC, I asked that there should be a written joint statement by the representatives of the two parties. I need to analyse all this because it is very easy to create impressions by saying 'what is going on, because a committee is not being set up', for which your representatives are well aware of the Conference of Presidents - that is, your Parliamentary Representative and your Vice-President from your party - that this issue has been raised here for too many meetings and there has been detailed information on each step, namely, what we expected, the Bank of Greece, the Finance Authority. And when all the external requirements were fulfilled and only the last two acts were left, i.e. the Deputy of the First Vice-President and the appointment of President, these two parties were not ready. Of which two are trying, if I understood your position correctly, to create a feeling that some do not want to control the parties' finances. Look, take care of what falls within your competence, get informed by your representatives at the Conference of Presidents, ask them why they have delayed something that is clear and self-evident that they must define it and do not discover conspiracy, which I shall tell you quite rightly that they are confronted with the diverse path of at least all the representatives of the party to which I belong and to the parliamentary group of which I belong. If you want, on my route, too. Don't make such impressions. For everything there is an answer and the answer we do not keep it as an ace in the sleeve. The answer has been given again and again. These have been detailed in detail in the Conference of Presidents. And I have to say, because the misinformation is wrangling, that I am going to consider - because I think this should be done - the possibility of the minutes of the Conference of Presidents being made public and everyone taking responsibility for it. That's the process. I do not know, I confess to you if, from Thursday to Tuesday, this document has been submitted. It's Thursday, our Conference and we've got Tuesday. I don't know if the representatives of the JRC and the river have submitted it. If you have not tabled this, by Thursday, before Thursday, which we will have a conference before, please state it so that I too can appoint the President of the Commission from the three Vice-Presidents of the SYRIZA and conclude what we all want to see finalised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u415	Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u416	Mr. Theochari, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u417	No need, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u418	Wait a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u419	You have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u420	I think that the President has described all the facts about the committee procedure very well, but she has remembered perhaps another station in this procedure, which I think should be added for the sake of clarity. Last Thursday obviously - because I was not present at the Conference of Presidents - there was no representative from Potami, unfortunately, because it was delayed in starting too much because of an earlier committee, and so I have not been informed that we should have sent a letter. We already have the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group here and we will consider tomorrow whether this information has been received or in any case we will send this letter tomorrow. However, the President forgot that one Thursday earlier - in fact, I think the previous Conference was held on Wednesday - we informed orally the same about the agreement between the River and the JRC on the fact that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u421	That was the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u422	...the two parties agree that the representative should be Mr Lambroulis, the deputy. So if I wanted to record it on the Minutes and did not want it at that time, because it was obviously the stress to end the sitting, because it had just come for a few hours and had to go back and had to deal with it, it had to be time for this act of legislation to be urgent and for it to be voted on last Friday - and that was all the purpose of the sitting - in any event, it might have forgotten that both representatives of both parties a Thursday earlier - and also a Wednesday, since it was not Thursday - we agreed in front of it that the representative would be the Communist Party. If you had to write it in the minutes, let's write it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u423	Mr. Theochari, allow me. In any case, others were at the Conference and things are very different from what you described. I was also at the conference and I know exactly what was said. But let us not open up this debate, because it seems that, otherwise, everyone understands what happens, what the facts are, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u424	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u425	Mr. Fotillas, Member from the River, has the floor. For five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u426	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during the discussions in the Committee on Public Administration, the responsible Deputy Minister has assured us that this draft law concerns both the restoration of injustices and unconstitutionalism and the rationalisation of public administration procedures and structures through e-government. Minister, I agree with you that it is essential to reorganise the public, to reorganise it by means of uniform, fair and pragmatic rules. We must create a small and flexible public, with a view to better service for the citizens and not to vote. To make the maximum use of the qualifications of officials, to give them clear competences, to have integrated and effective service organisational plans, to have evaluation and self-assessment systems. But we disagree vertically in the way, Minister. We don't believe in fragmentary measures. We all know that the serious problems of public administration need to be solved, but the solution is not a spasmist move. We cannot proceed to the third step unless we do the first and second. Minister, you admitted that you needed a study. The establishment plans of the Ministries and the supervised bodies must be completed, the industries redefined, the expectations drawn up and then a proper evaluation carried out. Then and only then will we restore injustices, not only in respect of one portion of people, but in respect of all Greek citizens. All Greek citizens welcome the idea of proper evaluation, even the civil servants themselves. No one wants injustice, on the one hand, from having services with surplus staff and, at the same time, from services which are unable to operate due to a lack of staff. Minister, there are not only two sides of the coin, the demonization or the outrage of the public administration. There are positive and negative elements. And our task is to make substantial changes so that the public administration can serve the Greek citizen. Does the bill bring such changes? In my humble opinion, no, Minister. Even in the case of disciplinary in the second chapter, we note that, instead of dealing fully with this serious issue, the government is moving on to fragmentary changes which, at best, are turning us back in the pre-2012 institutional framework or, worse still, make it more undemocratic. Minister, how much democratic process is the disciplinary board, in your opinion, only able to give its opinion, but until now it has been decided? And if this important body only gives its opinion, who will decide? The heresy? The hereditary commissioner? What for? To intimidate civil servants? For ruffles? A special impression also arises in the removal of a particular disciplinary penalty, the non-insurance of actions by the public in the "DENMARK". This is, of course, coupled with the amendment that the entry into force of administrative acts is not necessarily the same as the date on which they were posted, as was the case until now. Minister, why not want transparency?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u427	We have no differentiation of the date of suspension from the date of validity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u428	They shall not apply from the date of suspension. They will apply beforehand, in accordance with the amendment. That's what I understand. I think so. I am very surprised to hear you say that there is no question of unconstitutionalism, because the amendment on 'DIVING' may well go into the section: 'Fight against bureaucracy'. In your view, the relative abolition of 'Guarantee' combats bureaucracy. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u429	Electronic governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u430	Yes, sir. Of course there is also an amendment to the second chapter, which I agree with. The addition: ‘In any event, it is not an inappropriate behaviour or unworthy or unworthy conduct to conduct a trade union policy or social action’ does help to prevent any abuse of the provisions which provide for the strict measure of the definitive cessation of the staff member who exercises his constitutionally guaranteed freedoms and rights. Minister, I would like to mention - and I will end with this - the fourth chapter on the restoration of injustice. In this chapter, we see an obsolete reintroduction of staff, without any programming, without any organization. First of all, I would like to stress that redundancies were indeed unfair because they were horizontal. They were not made redundant, inappropriate after their assessment, but everyone, because it was considered that their service was not useful, did not offer work to Greek citizens. It is true that I am not opposed to the reoccupation of officials who were qualified to be recruited and who were made redundant as a result of horizontal measures imposed either by the memorandum or by the policies of the previous government. But does this reinstatement really solve the problems of the public administration? What, then, does this chapter serve, Minister? Can customer logic with individual fragmentary arrangements, on which redundancies have been based, be restored by corresponding reintegration arrangements? I will close with Article 19, which provides for the reintroduction of part of the staff to the re-established Municipal Police, which, in our view, does not only restore injustices, but is intensifying them. How fair is the use of the five hundred and eighty-three former county policemen in prisons without even training? The ban on bringing them back to Municipal Police is based on parity against all the employees? Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the river we have serious reservations about the changes that this bill brings. Once again, our government is frustrating us. Once again it is considered inferior to the circumstances. Once again, she did not take the opportunity for substantial and necessary changes and goes ahead with micro-political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr. Jason Firela. Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou has the floor and we are ending with the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u432	Thank you, Madam President. I think it is of great symbolic importance that on the day the first memorandum was introduced, Mr Minister, you achieve a decisive blow to the memorial loot and to the memorandum policy. You are sending out a decisive message, as this Chamber also sends a decisive message to defend society, defending the weak, shielding and restoring the victims of this truly black period, which is called the'memorandum period', which will be a paradox in history, of this black period which has most characteristicly anti-democratic, not just the violation of democratic processes, but also the destruction of the Constitution itself and the complete eating of the core of democracy, the social rule of law. It is an act of essential resistance and overthrowing this bill. It's an act of dignity and self-respect. It is an act of defending the most sacred principles and values. It is an act of real restoration of injustice, which is and must remain an act and an unbearable situation in a society. The injustice must continue to be unbearable. We mustn't tolerate her. We must not get used to it. We must not let people whose very existence, their own life, the core of human value, who is the most sacred, protects our Constitution, but also the international and super-legislative framework for protecting human rights. And you also send a message of encouragement to society, because the people who fought and did not fall over the head, the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, who I see smiling in the gallery, the school guards, the teachers, all those categories of workers who resisted, who did not bent and did not level, are vindicated. And that is how everyone who in the future will have to resist, not against this government, which defends them, but against those who seek to take out society and destroy democracy, in the name of purposes that have never been and must never be of human value, in the name of purposes which have never been over-legislatively protected. I am also referring, of course, to the debt used and used as a fear, as a tool for depleting, enslaving societies of the whole and of the peoples, which is retired as a mechanism for submissiveness and enslavement. It is therefore a clear message that you are sending, Mr Minister, and which the government will send and which the House will also send in the vote on this bill. And it is a message that should be heard very well, particularly those who have a responsibility for the super-legislative committees, the over-legislative or international organisations involved in the process and the negotiation and the response of our country, which is not only about our country, nor was it caused solely by government officials, who are undeniable, but are not exclusive, responsible. The message that the bill has to be received from this one, and from many others that the government has brought, is that no one is entitled to attempt to destroy democracy or to protect human rights in the name of a repayment of alleged debt, which will now be checked on exactly what is and what part of it is any legal and what is actually illegal and disgusting. None of the occupants of either government posts in other countries - members of international organisations in which Greece is involved - or posts of officials in the institutions of these international organisations - is legitimate to threaten that, if the government or parliament fails to give in, rights and freedoms conquered in blood again will be violated, which have been devastated, on one night usually, by very willing co-workers, government and parliamentarians, and which are currently really resurrected by these provisions. Minister, in this sense - I would like to say - it is not at all accidental and the attack you have been attacked, targeting, attacking your demonisation, attacking your attempt to appear as having, allegedly, a conflict of interest, at the same time that those who move the finger were, proved to have a conflict of interest, should have abstained from taking on government positions in previous periods and other responsibilities that have been confronted with other qualities and relationships. To say to a man who has abandoned the position of the MEP - who many seek to use as a coercion of economic and political - and has come to defend these policies, to insist on the shadow of a conflict of interest in a person who, on his legal path - and I must say it, because I know it myself - has many times, unselfishly, defends people who are tested at the core of their freedoms and rights, eh! I wanted this to be clearly said, as I wanted to say quite clearly, that it is highly hypocritical that those who used the provisions on Disciplinary Law, circumventing any concept of fair trial and presumption of innocence, at the same time as serving themselves, at the same time and at the same time with amendments to the disgrace at the last minute, allegedly to be cut off by oaths. If they really are cut on oaths, they will contribute to the work of the Committee of Inquiry on the memorandum, which was adopted today by its Bureau. If they are cut over by oaths, they will help to control all on-site government officials in the previous periods. If they are cut with regard to prosecutors, they must also be clearly placed in relation to the currently controlled criminal president of ELSTAT and in relation to the controlled criminal president of the Financial Stability Fund and to the current Governor of the Bank of Greece, who should be controlled for too many things. Therefore, enough with these hypocritical and crocodile positions by those who have primarily acted misused the executive and legislative power they have, precisely to cover the oaths, precisely to provide them with immunity and impunity. I would like to say a few words about the recruitments. It was one of the many anti-democratic tools to prevent reactions to anti-democratic, anti-social and deeply reactionary policies followed by the Memorandumian governments. Transport workers have been charged with transport for too many months, seafarers and teachers. The eminent actors of mind and morals have been recruited. Even the PPC workers. These were the examples of the government's inability to have any ground with society, the previous government, the Memorandum of Understanding of Samaras - Venizelos, these were the samples that were resurrected from others, such as the 'black' to the ERT, which I think also convinced the most cautious or conservative that the memorandum means the destruction of democracy. At the moment, democracy is being restored. Let us not forget - and we do not forget and we will not forget - that when others talk about profits and damage, we are talking about human lives. Not forgetting and not forgetting that the sacrifice of these human lives were also called upon by the coexistents and those who appear as lenders. Let us not forget - and I would like to say this - that the European Central Bank, at least, which in many ways has exceeded its competence and role, has that conflict of interest recorded in the European Parliament report, because there are two qualities in the European Central Bank, which are potentially and prove to be incompatible with each other: the status of the institution of the European Union and the status of creditor. As a creditor, he is speeding up to collect, but the status of the institution of the European Union, which must safeguard the conditions and principles of the European Union's statutes, prevails. The social state cannot be destroyed. The democratic process cannot be destroyed. It cannot be undermined until the principle and purpose of the well-being of peoples and societies for the benefit of the service of lenders is extinguished and extinguished. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this House should continue to pass bills that make it proud, inspire and mobilise every democratic citizen. The government must continue to bring bills which a little restore the affected democracy, which some people call 'our democracy', but which mean something else. Because when he talks about our 'democracy', Mr. Kedicoglou, when he talks about our 'democracy', Mr. Mitsotakis means something very different from democracy as defined in the Constitution. I think your saying, Minister, that this is not our last word, but the first one, is a source of real optimism for too many people. I also think that in the effort made by the government to defend society, these people are inclined to move. And that's vital. Finally, I also think, and I will repeat, that there must be genuine restraint by the ministers in relation to the procedure for tabling amendments. I know and know that the Prime Minister himself has made a very strict recommendation not to violate the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament in relation to the amendments. I think we are wrong in bills like this when other fields are opened, which can normally come to a discussion. That's all I'm gonna say. I said the rest from the Chair. I would really like to conclude by saying that it is a glorious field for the present period for the final and irrevocable equalisation of the Memorandum of Perspectives and Policies not only for our country, but for the whole of Europe. Let us not forget that what we are today defending, in a Parliament and in a structured institution, others have conquered it with their blood, with their freedom, with their sweat in times when nothing was acquis and conquered. To honor them, especially those days that have been completed and seventy years since the end of World War II. Resistance and resistance to the memorials are a small sign of resistance in relation to the resistance that other societies and our ancestors have made in previous times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u433	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Konstantopoulou has completed the list of speakers. I would like to ask, in addition to Mr Katsotis, whether there is any other rapporteurs who wish to speak. Nobody. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u434	Now that we have a clean mind, which began to dawn, which the fowls are talking about, we have to say a few more things. A lot has been said about the revolution that is taking place, about the resistance, about making worldly changes and twists. Since cleaners are here, they must know that they will be working again at EUR 320, with fixed-term contracts, that too many are out of the bill, that the amendments we made were not accepted, so too many other than those made redundant from the memorandums, as they say, that many are not justified, because they do not fit into the fifteen thousand budgeted workers for 2015. So we must tell the world the truth that we are bringing them back to a business relationship again - a jungle - that we do not go any further, if you want, overthrow these labour relations, flexible, flexible tyres - we have described them many times - with the rentals, contractors who have become the masters in each building. Cleaners know very well who these contractors are, how they act and how they work. And yet, they keep running away. Look, what's changed? Has something changed here in our country? The workers came to power, and we don't know? Who's in charge? What about the private sector? What's going on in public? Here you yourself said about unpaid work, about work jungle, that collective agreements do not exist, unemployment in heights, poverty and impoverishment go further. Who creates all this? What result is all this? What's the cosmic of the bill? So you said here that you would abolish the memorandum, the implementing laws. And the memorials are here, and the applicable laws are here, and now a new deal will be made. And on the old anti-Salan laws, the new anti-Salan laws will come.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u435	Fight them out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u436	The European Union, my dear colleague, does not change, as it has proved. What you were saying in an election. She's who she is, defends monopolies and business groups. Each country defends its own bourgeoisie, as you here defend the right of the bourgeoisie in our country to have money, cash from the European Union, to make the recovery, to make investments. Create the friendly environment. If, therefore, you do not really want workers to be very cheap, consumable species, a scratch on the machine that will produce wealth for capitalists, you have only here to go to ruptures, overthrows, with the European Union and all those who are today oppressing the people and who have it where they have it. Of course, you're three months government. You've been responsible for these three months. However, the prospect is not different. In relation to the bill - to say on this - it is, of course, making changes, of course, bringing back people. I also said in my protagonism that it is of great interest to many workers - victims of the memoranda, implementing laws, anti-grassroots policy. There's a lot of people on the outside. That is why we have also made the amendments which gave answers, satisfying much of those who have been wronged and improving aspects of the bill. We have tabled amendments to SYRIZA Members who, of course, have not been accepted by the government because, perhaps, they have not matured or even fit into the draft law, or I do not know why else. However, we believe that there are aspects that could be satisfied today by the bill. We shall vote on some amendments. In addition to these two amendments by the JRC which you accepted, 66 and 68, we shall vote 'yes' on Amendment 56 concerning the fraudster, 57 concerning the employees of the ELGA. We are also saying 'yes' to Amendment 79 concerning the extension of the deadlines for the completion of construction work. We say 'yes' to 'yes' in 80, which deals with the regulation of critical local government issues, as in 81, 83 and 90. We say'residents' in Amendments Nos 60, 80, 98, 103 and 111. And we say 'no' to Amendment 91, which you have accepted, which relates to the lending of TAs by the Deposit and Loan Fund. On the one hand, you take the cash and, on the other hand, you say to them: "Let's borrow, so we can get it from you too." With regard to the ministerial amendments, we voted 'by' in the last one, 112, on the completion of the legislative act. You say that the Greek State will compensate the municipalities in case they have damages or that the cash assets involved in the fees will not be touched. What are you doing? You tell the mayors, you tell the Ottomans: 'Do other services rewarding if you want to have money'. So drive the OTAs to proceed with compensation and other services. We are therefore voting against this amendment, denounce it and call for it not to be accepted, of course, because it is too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u437	Is there other than the rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups who want to do a dentistry? Oh, no. The Bureau considers it appropriate not to proceed today in the vote on articles and amendments, to vote tomorrow, after the roll-call vote, at 16 a.m., because this bill is very serious and the Bureau considers it appropriate and useful and crucial that the other groups of Parliament, which are absent today, should also be present at noon. In this sense, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction is adjourned: "Democracy of the administration - Combating Written and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-05-S2-commons.u438	With the consent of the House, 2.42' is the meeting for Wednesday, May 6, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: (a) at 10.00, at the beginning, of the articles and of the entire draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions" and (b) at 16.00, the vote on articles and amendments will be taken and the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Management: "Democracy of Administration - Combating Written and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions".
