ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 19-11-2015, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday 19 November 2015 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Council, with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent arrangements for the implementation of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reforms and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-one students and students and three teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Amyntian Florins. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 143/16-11-2015 of the First Cycle of the MP Arcadias Coalition of the Radical Left Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the coverage of transport costs by public service contract and of PSA students. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Ioannis Balafas. Please, Mr Papaliou, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u4	Minister, it is well known that the cost of the transport of primary and secondary pupils in public schools is covered by the region, beyond a minimum distance of kilometres from school to school and without a kilometre upwards. The same applies to the transport costs of students in music and artistic schools, who were added by a joint ministerial decision in 2015. As not to be excluded from the cover of their transport costs by public service contract, students of daily and summer PSAFs for a distance between the place of residence and the school that exceeds 20 km. This unfavourable and unequal treatment, in my view, is an unjustified injustice for PSA students, on the one hand, because vocational training, which is also the basis of the country's productive reconstruction, is being put to a second fate and, on the other, because PSA students and, in particular, PSA students are workers, who are particularly hard and trying to gain knowledge. Furthermore, they do not have the opportunity to acquire it in normal conditions because of the daily biopsy. In particular, in Arcadia, where four daily and one summer PAPAL operate, due to soil morphology, long distances and climate conditions, especially in winter, the possibility of transferring PSA students by same means is forbidden. The question, therefore, to the Minister is whether he intends to take an initiative in order, by adopting a new joint ministerial decision with the co-legislative ministers, to cover the transport costs by means of a public service contract and of PSA students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. There is no doubt, Mr Colleague, that you are raising an important issue and an unjustified approach. You're right about that as you put it. And I would like to say that from this point of view I think it is a good thing that this issue and today's debate - it is undeniable that - will contribute to the smooth and orderly provision of transport services for PCA students, for whom there is a specific exception to existing legislation today. We are talking about a particularly sensitive category, which is particularly affected in the midst of the difficult economic situation which makes them even more difficult. This issue has already been raised in the knowledge of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, and we are considering in particular, together with the existing institutional framework and the possibilities offered today, how to deal with this issue. As you said, in general terms, the transfer of pupils to their schools on a daily basis is an appropriate measure. It is defined by Joint Ministerial Decision 24001/2013, which was even amended in September 2015 by Joint Ministerial Decision of 31636, which stated that ‘they are being transferred without kilometre restrictions to their school on a daily basis beyond others, as well as the students of musical schools and artistic schools and intercultural education schools’, not to mention the PSAs - professional high school - to that joint ministerial decision, which supplemented it. There is only the following issue, which I put to you in mind, because we have no reason to put it down. We must cover it - and we will cover it - professional high schooling on the issue of abolishing the 20 km limit. By 20 kilometers, there's no transport matter. It is covered in ways that can be covered. The issue is for over 20 kilometers and in an area such as the area in which the question-matter, Mr Papaileiou, is a member of parliament. There is a problem there, because they have more distances, a small number of ESDPs, and therefore the distances are greater and must be covered, that is to say, the 20 km limit being lifted. You understand that there is a lower or higher expenditure on government budgets. Since, of course, the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction is fully aware of the problem that arises in the process of transferring pupils, in particular, as I said before, in the event of this timely question, as a Ministry in the context of the current budgetary difficulties and context, we are considering the possibility of meeting this request for the inclusion of PES students in the regulation, the removal of the 20 km limitation for the transfer of pupils. In particular, these days we have also asked the Ministry of Education to inform us responsibly, namely what number we are talking about and in which areas, so as to determine the specific costs and to proceed with the regulation that we consider necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u8	It is gratifying that the government and the Minister responsible respond positively to this request, which is absolutely fair. Firstly, it recommends, as I have said before, unequal treatment of PCA students and, secondly, their exclusion has no justification. I would say, in support of what the Minister said, that spending, of course, plays a role. However, when it comes to education and especially to pupils in difficulty and in barren areas, which, above all, raise the issue, I think this should not be a priority, especially for a left-wing government. In addition, I would say that a favourable treatment would be justified in the case of ESDP students. Because, as I said before, the PCAs are the basis of technical education, which we believe should be the starting point for the country's productive reconstruction, which the government is seeking. One further reason is that these students, especially at night schools, experience biopalle and try to gain knowledge by overlying their strengths. Finally, they come - you have said so too - from mountainous and remote regions, which are not covered by this regulation. I would therefore say that it is pleasant and in that direction the Ministry must move in such a way that a joint ministerial decision can be adopted, covering also the PES students, because they are not children of a lower god. Also, the region, Mr Minister, should be given priority, as we know that, unfortunately, the Athenian-centric state has so far been the dominant one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. There are two sides. I think we agree that there is a political will on the part of the Ministry and the Government. We're committed to moving on. One is that. There is, of course, also the issue of expenditure. The economic aspect may not be the main one, but there is this dimension, and we cannot ignore it. That is why we have also asked for the documentation of how many, what numbers and so on, so that we can be specific to the claim, to promote this request. However, I would like to point out, because people are probably listening to us, that for PSA students too, for distances of less than twenty kilometres, or for transport by same means rather than by public contract, this cost is covered. In other words, when we talk about a distance of less than twenty kilometres or when they move on the same footing, this cost is covered. The honourable Member speaks of cases - and it makes sense - that there are cases in his area. Especially in its area, not in all urban centres. Perhaps in urban centres the problem is not so intense or even intense, because we have no distances of 20 kilometres. These are exceptions. In areas like Arcadia, however, the problem exists. In other words, we must also cover the distances of over 20 kilometres and not only by the same means, but also by means of a public service contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Next is the fifth question by No. 145/16-11-2015, for the first time by the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "Help at Home". Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the "Help at Home" programme employs four thousand workers and over 100 000 pensioners and people with disabilities as recipients. The fact is that "Help to Home" is an important structure for the family and offers important services to the elderly, to the LEADER, although unfortunately it has never been fully developed in our country to cover all needs. The workers in this programme, although they are four thousand as I have told you and over a hundred thousand the recipients, have a very limited area. This is evidenced by the fact that over sixty-five years of age is two and a half million, below the poverty line is 27%, and one million live on their own. On Monday, it became the universal mobilisation of workers at the Ministry of Labour and was announced by Mr.Kourublis and by Mrs. Fotios that the programme will be extended for 2016 in the form of the same funding, while working towards the creation of a universal primary care network for the elderly, AMEA and vulnerable groups. In fact, however, you said nothing more than the previous governments of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. You repeat the same practice: you hold them in hostage. In fact, we are very afraid that, with a leaf of anxiety for workers to prolong the programme, that is to say, to ensure their work for another year and, of course, the increased needs of retired and disabled people, who have recourse to these inadequate content and extension structures, you are aiming at accepting more easily the new reactive, working, wider social overthrows that are being prepared. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, with your tolerance, Mr President, to say: You continue to keep Article 64 of the Law in force. It is also necessary to ensure that workers' contracts are translated into an indeterminate period of time. So you lead them sooner or later to dismissal. No commitment to a permanent employment relationship. As if you were doing a favor after 13 years of work, under adverse conditions, with shortages of basic materials, with cars that have done their cycle, with the dangers of workers - especially in remote areas - without training, without the time being paid. After all this, you come here today and tell them "take another one year extension". It is therefore much more necessary today to extend, support and upgrade these public prosperous services. They should be prevented from being privatised by any cloak, whether by NGOs or private individuals. Modernisation, upgrading and expansion of social work are needed. It must be strengthened as a programme and implemented through the social services of the municipalities, with stable and adequate funding from the state budget, full services must be provided to all those who need, without exceptions and free of charge, disconnected from their insurance and income situation. Not to be fired from anyone, to be permanent, to recruit all the permanent staff of all the skills required with full wage and insurance rights. How do you answer all this? Not a one-year extension. The workers in the program are struggling and wanting very specific answers. All of these "we'll see if and if the state economy goes up" for workers, pensioners, people with disabilities say nothing at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u13	Please, Mr. Synatiakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. A lot of questions have just arisen after the announcements made by the two Ministers, so you can see that the questions are many, but they need to be answered. You referred to the setting-up of a universal primary care network. Give us a picture. What do you mean? How will that work? To say this, you'll have a plan in your mind, a plan, a plan in any case. It will be financed from national resources, as you have said. Can social structures be supported in precarious programmes through ESDP or through OPs? You'll see - you say - what are you going to do with work after thirteen years? Can there be structures with annual contracts, five months and two months? So all these questions are about workers, about thousands of pensioners and people with disabilities, and you must in a way give clear and concrete answers. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. The State Secretary, Mr Balafas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Colombois for presenting this question. As he proved, there are specific answers he knows, because he was present - and well he did - at that particular meeting. I thank him, however, because with today's debate we are able to make it even clearer - because I think it is clear, Mr Colleague - to put an end to the concerns of the beneficiaries and the concerns of the workers or any concerns and to assure the workers in this case that there will be no dismissal or tomorrow. Let's not sow the danger. The situation is difficult and we know it. Not to make any beauty, but not to make this wildly dangerous. There's nothing to help with. There will be no dismissal and no privatisation. As you say that industrial relations are blocking, I should like to tell you that so many years with these industrial relations workers have been offering a huge help. The programme is entirely beneficial to the seventy-three thousand people who accept the services, with the specific employment relationships. Obviously we would like there to be the absolutely permanent, completely different, even better industrial relations. However, what has been done for so many years in the 'Help at home' programme is a very serious offer which, under no circumstances can anyone deceive or devaluate the work of workers and employees in these services. I would also like to say that this question should be addressed to the relevant Ministry, which is the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity, as this colleague, Mr Kegeroglu, has done, who has asked Mrs Fotou herself, who will shortly be here to reply. I suggest you, Mr Syntagakis, sit down, if you have any time, so that you can have a more comprehensive answer from the relevant Minister and the relevant Ministry. What I would like to say is that according to the assurances you have in mind - and you said this to your credit - the programme in the form that is currently in force and with the same workers and with the same relationships will continue until the end of 2016, with the funding of EUR 60 million, which will be allocated to the bodies which finance the programme - AAGE, the General Secretariat for Welfare, IKA - ETAM, etc. As far as the current contract is concerned, the remaining three instalments have already been paid under the relevant programme contract. There has been a start in paying the fourth instalment by the bodies which finance this programme. And in order to close the programme by the end of the year, it is also settled. An amount that is secured and to be allocated to the financing entities is required. An amendment will be tabled to the House to extend the programme in 2016. Otherwise, in order not to deal with a problem which I repeat is not our responsibility. I do not know whether it is a coincidence - a happy coincidence - that Mr Kegeroglu is here and Mrs Fotou will shortly discuss and what will happen further, and what plans there are, which you are reasonably asking what is to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr Balafa. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u18	Minister, these have been said - not you - the two other ministers the other day. You say it and you have said it, and the previous governments have said it exactly the same thing. It's all good to this day. It's okay! You're satisfied. In other words, the fact that we have two and a half million pensioners here, 27% below the poverty line, one million who are left alone and only 100 000 are covered by this programme, is all good. In any case, let each one draw his conclusions. But be careful to see: Here there is a new successor from 2012 due to PASOK, n.4052, replacing the program "Help to Home" with the program "Help Household Care for Pensioners". This new scheme provides for no more funding than insurance contributions. And by its nature objectively it throws the majority of pensioners and disabled people from outside the structures. Its implementation is allocated to the so-called JEPs, NGOs and private enterprises. Do you adopt this sequential shape or not? Will you cancel it with new legislation and continue with the current programme or will you activate it with or without a pan-Hellenic primary care network? And one and the other can't. With this ambiguity, the general in answer, - because you are likely to solve it now - you will not fool the workers so that after a year and after they have linked this programme to the insurance and the new reinsurance lot that your government is preparing to bring to Parliament you will be able to say: '(a) now we cannot do otherwise, because our commitments to the partners in the European Union...'. We are very afraid that you will include this pan-Hellenic network precisely in this logic. In other words, you will be subject to the needs of pensioners and disabled people in the new insurance system, which is a carnival for workers. It will be linked to the abolition of the EASA, by increasing the retirement threshold, you will link the work of the workers of the “Help at Home” programme and you will tighten up the criteria for the integration of pensioners and people with disabilities, while continuing the hostage of the workers, the privatisation of the structures. It does not, therefore, matter whether you set up a pan-Hellenic network, even with the assistance of workers - as you say - on this network. Because if you are going to build a pan-Hellenic network, which will essentially turn it into a box of all structures and which will operate in the context of the programmes to tackle extreme poverty with crumbs, to very fewer recipients, with far fewer workers, into much more unfavourable working conditions, we do not agree and I do not think that the workers and pensioners do not agree. Therefore, workers in the programme, pensioners, people with disabilities, should know what the successor scheme holds with n. See Annex 'Question Time'. 4052 provides that the benefit to retired and disabled persons is to be regarded as an allowance and is directly linked to the insurance system and the employee's contributions. In other words, financing will come from the withholding of 0.2% of the main insurance contributions. It predicted - because it has frozen now - the application of retention after 1-1-2015. That is why we ask you what you intend to do. You're gonna take her out? Will you activate this heir shape? And a lot of other things, of course. From our position as a Communist Party of Greece we would like to tell you that we support a policy with state and free social and medical care services at home that meets the needs of all the elderly, the disabled, the chronic disease without any exclusion and no financial burden on the same and the insurance funds. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The core for us must be the health centre in both the city and the village within the framework of the single universal public and free health and welfare system. In this respect, therefore, you must respond to the core of the problem. You are not answering and you are switching it to the Penalty Monday, that is. Thank you, Mr President, for the great tolerance you have shown.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u19	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u20	Sometimes I wonder if there really is dialogue. I told you before that, in my opinion, you addressed the non-competent Ministry. And I asked you to stay a few minutes to discuss this matter with Mrs Fotou, who will be coming. Mr Kegeroglu is here, who, in my opinion, has made the question more appropriately and is addressed to the relevant Ministry. We're not the Ministry responsible to explain the further plan to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u21	And why didn't you say you weren't responsible for not getting the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u22	First of all, this story you're intervening with, Mr. Katsotis... Please, you'll talk later. What's this story now? Why are you interfering first? We once had the indignant citizens. We don't need indignant citizens. Admit the dialogue, especially when you do not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Undersecretary...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u24	You don't have the floor, Mr. Synchronism. I'm the one talking. I'm talking, Mr. Symphony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u25	Just a question of boosting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Symphony, I'm talking. Don't you understand? The President will give you the floor later. Please. What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u27	You're welcome. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u28	Democracy requires, especially when we disagree, that we listen to each other. When we agree, it's a pleasure to meet you. So my opinion is that. We need a dialogue, we need to communicate. Hear what one another says. Secondly, the figures: three thousand three hundred or sixty-six employees, seventy-three thousand old and young people, 56 million annually. Through this data all these years, it's been a very serious job. That's what I said before. And of course, for this job, which has been done, we are satisfied. There are no ideal situations today, no tomorrow, never. Ideal and paradoxical situations do not exist in this world. In relation to the possibilities available, we are satisfied. We will constantly try to improve them, but we do not deceive the work offered, nor the work that workers have done in these years in these difficult circumstances. One last thing I want to mention. Apparently everyone can say what they want. And each one in turn can judge him. I have heard eight times 'it will be done in that light'. I am not saying that there will also be some excess in order to hit some bells, take it into account, move to take care of it, prevent it. I agree. But does the continued prediction of Armageddon and disaster help anyone? Does the continued non-confirmation of this thing not worry? After all, such a practice is not widely accepted. Let's think about her. There's no need for workers from such a visa in my opinion. Of course anyone can do any way they want their criticism. She's welcome anyway. To close by saying that for us and this criticism is welcome and helps us to do our work better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u30	Please, Mr. Synthraki, what does the staff consist of?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u31	Staff consists of whether or not they are the responsibility of Mr Balafas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u32	That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u33	It's customary in these cases when a question or a timely question is submitted...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u34	Are we keeping another process now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u35	No, no. On staff, Mr Balafa, because you reproached us. Although it is deferral and even you called me - the person in charge of your office - to postpone the debate on the topical question, you had all the time to tell me, "You know, it's not my responsibility. Please contact elsewhere or do this to me in writing. So you're here today to tell us that it's not your responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u36	You're welcome, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u37	Is that your answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u38	Didn't you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u39	No dialogue. You said the staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u40	But should I tell you something else? From where and until a primary care sector is at the Ministry of Labour? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Symphony...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u42	An issue of primary care at the Ministry of Labour...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u43	It's not bad sometimes to recognize that there was a failure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u44	I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u45	...to the Ministry of Labour. Where and where?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u46	Mr Colleagues, I think you can discuss this in particular with Mr Balafas. The Rules of Procedure do not allow for any further dialogue. Thank you very much. The fourth question, number 169/17-11-2015, will be discussed in the context of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the payroll of workers in the regions. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u47	Let's hope the Minister calms down a bit and doesn't have such an empathy against the JRC. Our questions relate to thousands of workers. He's a minister, he's in charge, he's coming here and he needs to give answers. If they cover workers or not, they will be judged themselves. But he can't come here and underestimate us, tell us that you asked another unauthorized minister. There's a habit here. If this question does not concern him, he tells us to go elsewhere, as has been done so far. What's he talking about? Anyway, I'm going to go to my question. Officials recruited as state officials in regional ministries had been transferred to prefecture self-government and then to the local districts and municipalities of the country in accordance with the ‘KALIKRATI’. These are all regular staff in the regions. With the n. 4047 the Act of Legislative Enforcement of Measures implementing the Medium-term Financial Strategy 2012-2015 and the State Budget of 2011 was ratified. In the regulations of the above law, there was provision for payment by the State budget of the remuneration of permanent and private law workers who were transferred or transferred to the regions and municipalities. On 31-12-2015, this arrangement of the above law expires. At this time, workers are trying to ensure continued payroll and that is why they have held meetings with the Interior Minister, as well as representations in the regions throughout the country, so that the 2015 budgets can be amended to cover the first month of 2016 and the new budgets have ensured the continuity of their payroll. Workers are concerned because linking their payroll to the regions' resources and recompense creates problems. It is well known that the CAP has fallen by 60%. This reduction and the removal of reserves from the regions have caused additional difficulties. Workers are certainly asking to learn from you, asking what you are going to do, so that their payroll from the state budget can be unnecessarily guaranteed. This is their place and we are waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mr Kattotis for this specific question. This gives us the opportunity to discuss and clarify, to clarify and inform responsibly on the serious issue that it raises us, to give the real picture and to remove the concerns that are likely to exist in the specific categories of officials. Let me turn here to the following three - four issues. Firstly, so far payments are not made through the state budget. We are paying again through the Central Self-Resources from which the payroll of the officials of the regions is retained by the General Accounting Office of the State. And through central government, they are paid directly to the workers. In other words, if the Central Self-Resources are 10 million - the figures are hypothetically - they are not attributed to the beneficiaries in the region. It's eight. The two that account for the payroll are retained by the General Accounting Office of the State and attributed to the employees. Again the process is through Central Independent Resources. Secondly, the provision of the Law of 1910, by n. 3852, the so-called 'KALIKRATI', was to be paid with Centralised Resources, which are attributed to the regions, so through the regions it is possible to pay the salaries of officials from the regions, which, personally, I accept, strengthens the self-sufficiency of the regions and enables them to do their homework. There was this extension by the end of 2015 due to the 2012-2015 Medium-term Financial Strategy and, of course, to the possibility of a year - which was given above - in order to regulate the respective services, to be matched to the new way of paying employees. Thirdly, I would like to stress that the municipalities of the country - the first degree of self-government - have been paying themselves for all these years directly to workers, without any problem with payroll, again through the Central Independents of the municipalities. No problem has arisen. Fourthly, I would also like to assure the honourable Member and, more generally, that the corresponding amount for the remuneration of regional officials has been guaranteed through the central authorities of the regions, which are clearly defined by the n. 3852/2010 at a certain percentage of the general taxes. Fifthly, there is a request from the Union of the regions, from their board of directors, and there is also from the workers' side. I may understand and understand why and how fears, objections, reflections, etc. are being formulated, but, as a relevant Ministry and with the political forces in charge, I would like to say that money is guaranteed. We are doing all the necessary actions, which are successfully completed, so that there is no delay and that workers are normally paid - I stress it - and in January 2016 onwards. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Katsotis has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, that is what I said, that they are paid through the CAP, by the Central Self-Resources, which are of course also linked to compensation. The workers are concerned because these funds have been reduced by 60% so far and the compensation is linked to the tax burden on citizens, residents and people as a whole. They want and demand that their payroll be through the state budget. That's what workers claim. You say: 'No, their payroll must continue through the CAP'. Why do you want that? Why do you insist on that? We say that you insist because you want this connection to be through the compensation of the services, to operate on private economic criteria based, of course, on the cost-benefit ratio. This will be measurable and the evaluation of structures, etc. In addition, the Commission's proposal for a Directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions is based on the principle of equal It's a new logic that you've accepted, that seems to be moving. These employees were recruited as state officials and transferred, transferred. So this can also happen with the mobility that there will be for other officials later, who will leave the state budget and be rewarded through such reasonable conditions that exist with the CFPs and with the competitivity of what has been said, which has been strengthened and today we see it being promoted both in hospitals and in education and elsewhere. Based on this and on taxes that will cover all the functions of these services, we will also have payroll. In other words, it will be in the air as a whole, in the years to come, with this logic that also governs you with that logic that you are currently facing the problem of these officials. For example, there is in no '15 budget for the payroll of workers since January 2016. You say: 'Don't worry, that's what will happen'. How? So far, the regional councils have not, for example, amended their budget. What do you say to them? You as the Ministry of Interior, what responsibility do you have to ensure that the workers, who also have loans, who if they do not pay the instalment, will also lose the arrangements, which if they do not pay the bank - which we had yesterday and the debate on the multi-brand plan - will have a problem with their loans? So what do you say in this world? So you can't say that everything is well done. How? Employees, that is, suddenly go and hold meetings, perform on the Interior Minister, perform on the district managers, worry, fight, gather, gather, gather, do it for fun? Well, you must as a government take a stand on the problem of a solution, not to perpetuate the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr Balafa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. Well, there is one given, Mr Katsotis and fellow Members: the payment of the municipalities so far is made within the deadlines and the data available and we are in any case trying to provide a solution to the issue of the regions. Technically, there may be a difference in size, there is no difference in substance. There may be a lack of trust and it is the right of everyone to have this political feeling. In other words, workers may say that if they do not do so, the regions may not pay us or the administration of the Committee of the Regions will say so. I mean, however, that the money eventually - that is what I mean and that is very essential, and we have to agree on it - from the same koruna. They don't come from somewhere different, they come from the state budget. That is to say, whether the money keeps it from the Central Self-Resources - let this be understood - the General Accounting Office of the State and gives it directly to the employees or the same money to the region and gives it to its employees, there is no difference. There's no difference! I repeat, from the same corps, they come out of the state budget with any difficulties or facilities. It's okay. I said that in any case - and I stress this because I may have to say this again and reminiscently - and I would then normally pay the workers. We can assure that. And it's not a question that everything's going well or not. It is that reasonable - I say - that there is concern, that we are trying to put it on its real basis and find its real cause. And underlining from my side is the fact that if there was a difficulty in the state budget, it can be expressed either when the money is retained by the General Accounting Office of the State and is attributed directly to the workers or when they are attributed to the regions and they pay their employees. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the Educational Programme "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fourteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 19th Municipal School of Painter. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fourth under number 136/13-11-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MEP of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the launch of the tender procedures for the Patras motorway - Tower in the Prefecture of Ilias, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u56	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, we are following as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Independence the systematic refusal of the Government's ministers to respond to their constitutional and parliamentary duties in the course of parliamentary scrutiny. The statistic tells us that not half of us come, they are not honoring Parliament in this topical process. I would ask you as the Bureau to take over, reminding the ministers of their duties. I will return to this crucial issue for western Greece and Elia street Patras - Pyrgos. I imagine Mr. Spirtz will respond sometime. However, Mr Spirtzis and every Minister must understand that the parliamentary procedure is not at their discretion, it is his duty and they must plan their obligations to meet. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. I must say to you, of course, that this issue has dealt with the Conference of Presidents on several occasions and we have done the relevant performances to both the Prime Minister and the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, personally. We therefore of course agree with you that the ministers should come and be consistent with parliamentary scrutiny. We move forward with our first question with number 172-12-10-2015 question by Mr Christos Katsotis, Member of the Greek Communist Party, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the problem of the Environmental Sensitisation Park. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Tsironis. You have the floor, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u59	Minister, since May the three employees of the "ITIS ANTI-TRI park" remain unpaid. In fact, this is not the first time they haven't been paid for a long time. I guess you know that. These workers are undetermined, they are subject to the Metropolitan Agency for Reconstruction and Management of Protected Areas of Attica, while the management of the park has been transferred to the Western Athens Development Association. Apart from the very serious issue of not paying workers' wages, the situation in the park is now explosive. It is obvious that the only three employees in the park, despite their daily, superhuman efforts, are not fundamentally enough for their operation. Also, in the previous period PPC had ceased electricity because of accumulated debts. Stable lake water poses a serious risk to the health of its visitors, who are not few. During the anti-nuclear period there were no minimum structures for fire protection. If you send someone, you'll see that the park is in danger. We believe that there are responsibilities. It must not be abandoned by the park in its fate, it is a green lung for the inhabitants of western Athens and the entire Lekanos of Attica as a whole. We are asking what measures will you take, Minister, to ensure that the workers are immediately paid, that there is exceptional funding to meet the urgent needs of the park, such as the ones I said earlier, to provide adequate, stable, exclusive funding from the state budget, that there are no permanent staff - with rights - to meet the needs of the park's operation, maintenance and preservation, because the risks are sufficient. On this we would like your answers in order for both the workers and the local residents and the municipalities to be informed because they are their own questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you, Mr Papoutsis, for giving me the opportunity to address an issue of scandal dimensions. With Law 4002/2011, and in particular Article 59, the three operators of olive groves, Kefissis and Tritsis park were merged with the single body you mentioned, the Metropolitan Body for the Protection of Regions in Attica. Then, then, a permanent board of directors had to be appointed to record the assets of all three entities, of course, becoming contracts, and there should be rules of operation. The first board of directors was appointed in 2011 by the Ministerial Decision 45010 and had two successive changes in 2013 with 10237 and 28756. The changes took place as a result of resignations from members of the Board. In fact, the President had resigned and was replaced by another member of the board of directors. All this time, the antiquities that had to be made for regular management were never opened books and evidence, never checked the park, never made contracts, never made any census. The park was left in its fate. Observed accountants were only taken once for the period from November 2003 to December 2008, and virtually nothing of the single assets of the three old operators was recorded. To understand the size of negligence, right now that we're talking about there's still four VDUs all three old and one new. The cherries in the cake - we would say - entered with Law 4296/2014 when all the Metropolitan Agency's assets relating to Tritsis Park were transferred to the ADD, the West Attica Association - but without the workers being granted, which means all the movable and immovable values, accounts. And I would like to inform you that I had oral telephone calls yesterday with the former President - who had already resigned - to ask him whether there is even one euro. Because as you can see, since they are separated, we need to see which assets correspond to the remaining two entities, the remaining Metropolitan Agency, and what assets correspond to the Tritsis Park. He informed me that not even EUR 1 is concerned with the other two entities. So, at the moment, we have the three employees to remain administratively in the Metropolitan Agency, but all the assets and accounts are essentially owned by the ASA. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm sorry, give me a minute, 'cause it's really important. And we have the absurdity of three meetings that have been held by the ASA - and I am rightly afraid - to refuse to receive the institution at the moment, because it is reasonable to say that the mayors are saying that "we, at the moment, cannot take up maintenance, protection, security, security, pay PPC's accounts, pay the ISPA, such a huge area without resources and without any specific record". So we have an absolute administrative deadlock here. On the one hand, we have three workers without resources, with zero resources, with a legal person under private law, and on the other hand, one - supposedly part-time and part-time with accounts and all the assets, but with no obligation to pay workers. The census provided by Law 4296/2014 did not lead anywhere. I have tabled a motion for a resolution to the effect that there are no books and facts. So what census is this? Apparently the employees who made her, they made the best possible. But it's not a census that can erase the past. And I am afraid that here we need serious management control and any criminal responsibilities. In this sense, then, I have recently spoken - because elections were held on 26 August when I took this census - on the Legal Council of the State to ask them how the workers can be paid legally, because at the moment there is no property in the former Metropolitan Agency to pay them. I'm waiting for the answer. I have not received a definitive answer. It's a Gordian bond, of course. Perhaps the solution should be - and we are investigating it legally - to abolish the von Habsburg. 4296, get the Metropolitan Institute back and pay at least the workers the remaining fund money or the others we put into the fund with a serious management check and a new administration. At the moment, however, you are really highlighting a very serious and scandalous problem that we have received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u63	Minister, no one can agree with this whole mess, which you said before, there was, for Tritsis Park, all this situation, with the four agencies, the four VAT. In any case, at the end of the day, no one really has a responsibility towards such an area of lung that its visit is very great, the value of the entire Attica basin is very important. And because you come from the economists, you know very well that in Attica there are no places like this that give people life. I think that one of the main issues that the government needs to solve is whether this is really going to be a green space, it will be a place of this kind that will be exploited by the people, and it will not be cut in the future, that is to say it will not be a fillet, which is to be sold or cut off, and that this will actually be used for a park, for an Attica's own lung. There are the problems you have said - whether they will be in the ASA or with the metropolitan park and others - but the government must quickly take decisions on this issue. It is important that this park has resources, that it can deal with problems and difficulties, that the park functions are such that it enables the people to be visited and, in any case, that requires resources. The resources must be found. We call it a part of the state budget. How many are these resources? A budget has to be made. But the relevant Ministry will have to make some decisions. Whether or not to abolish the law that gave it to ASA or not, there is also a need for a discussion with the mayors of the region if they can actually have resources and if they can really take care of the park and the functions needed for its continuity. As far as workers are concerned, I think that the Legal Council of State can be delayed, however, their needs, Mr Minister, are so unpaid for so long. They're borrowed from friends, from relatives, from here, from there, and they're every day in the park. Without their own superhuman effort, the park would be a jungle, it wouldn't be a park, so to speak. It is therefore worth speeding up the procedures so that the workers directly face major difficulties, since they have been unpaid for so long. It must be done immediately, Minister, it cannot be delayed. And the Legal Council of the State must prioritise the answers to certain things, when it concerns workers who are so many months unpaid and there is this difficulty. It can therefore indicate a solution that can be found so that they can be paid immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I am not going to come, but I belong to the Greens, I am an active representative, to clarify it. Our sensitivity to Tritsis Park, in which I've worked on several occasions as a volunteer, is great. I should also like to point out that it is not a delay of the Legal Council. We have received the answer very quickly, but the answer given to us does not solve the problem. I have her, and if you want to talk about her and bring her to see her. In the question we put to them, we asked exactly this: until this administrative issue was resolved, how can we pay people, from where to make money, how can we give them administratively? We've already asked for a meeting with the S.H.I.E.L.D. Mayors have said so to me, they cannot take - to say so, apologise for the abuse - this 'bargain hole' of the administrative, one body and one of its responsibilities, the PPC and the EEAS the enormous - because you referred to the lakes - without at this time having a guarantee. This vileness I'm telling you involves even suspicions of serious criminal and civil liability, since we don't have any books and evidence to see where these shopkeepers paid. Let me mention to you attributes that there was only one watch of PPC from which these shopkeepers took power, which they have never paid, but the body paid for it. In other words, this case - and I say again - is a problematic Gordian link, which has greatly deteriorated, when we suddenly lost as the Ministry and its administrative responsibility, which has been transferred to another body, which in turn refuses to receive it. That's why I'm telling you there's a problem right now. But I assure you, because we have too much sensitivity and we are constantly dealing with this issue, that very soon we will end up what we are going to do with this law, because I tell you that the mayors themselves tell us: "Let's first solve administrative problems and then, if you want, give it to the ASA. As it is, we cannot take it." On the other hand, the law stipulates that the transfer to the ASA is automatic. In other words, at the moment, we do not formally have the responsibility of the Metropolitan Park, nor do we have a fund to pay the workers belonging to the agency. It is, I say, a problem which I hope in the next few weeks will be resolved by some sort of legislation, I imagine. I can't imagine any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. We move to the seventh under No. 139/16-11-2015 topical question for the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the lack of a clear legal basis for the counting of guardian of the schoollands of the country. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis, will answer. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. The issue is well-known. There has also been an effort, which I have not followed, by Mr Stavoura in relation to a legislation on school inheritances - I will also come back to my dentistry - and on the issue that is extremely important and concerns the banking sector for sleeping deposits or dormant account, namely accounts that are inactive for more than fifteen - twenty years with cash and other values, bonds or shares, which are currently ponding and there is no clear legal framework in Greece for their management, which we must do - and I shall bring a recommendation on this - because the country is in a situation in which every type of liquidity is needed. Going to our question, school inheritances are an unexploited wealth of the state, which has been inactive for years because of bureaucratic stunts and shortcomings in the existing legal framework. Although they are conceptually differentiated from public utility properties, in the sense that they are not in favour of public utility purposes, but are publicly held as the last heir, their management after the recognition of the State's right of inherit, is similar to the management of the property that is missing in public without conditions, and are often the subject of the break-up of public money by appointed guardians with damage to the order of many hundreds of thousands or millions of euros per year. The two questions for you, Minister, and for the Ministry are: What measures are the relevant Ministry intending to take in order to deal with similar cases, which emanate from the Greek public authorities, because of the lack of clear legal basis for the custody of guardians? Will this guardian be subject to criminal liability or because his or her management operations and the auditing of those operations by the financial inspectors do not take place in advance of the application of Law 4182/2013, does it not legally be appropriate to adopt an administrative decision on the basis of repealed provisions? The second question concerns a very specific case, which I do not mention to save the time of your reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u69	Mr Colleagues, you raise a very serious question with your question. It's not just the issue of commentary inheritances, it's the whole piece of property that the Greek state had to manage. As the Deputy Minister of Finance, I am not proud of the way in which the properties in the school inheritances, the legacy, the exchange properties are handled. All this is public property and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and, unfortunately, either a vague legal framework - it is a legal framework that is imperfect in many respects - either the poor organization of services or the tragic lack of staff - what is happening, for example, to land and central services - is making the issue very serious as to how we manage public money and that has led us here. As far as your question in particular is concerned, indeed, there is a problem with regard to school inheritances and the Ministry of Finance is considering this whole grid of measures for all these services that we have said and to identify the legal gaps, but also how to best ensure public property. You saw that we are already taking action in this direction either through the EBRD, where a worthwhile project is being done, or through other services, because we do not want public property to be lost. On the second point, which you are talking about in this particular case, I do not know exactly what the case is. Once we get the evidence on this particular case, that is to say, that it is a specific case, that we will initiate or look at the procedures that have already been initiated, because there is no way we can leave anyone anymore to be diluted with public property. The party ended with the public property and we will not just ensure it and we will look for anything that needs to be searched, but we will even go in cases where this property has been imprisoned, because it is not possible for some Greeks to have left huge assets to the Greek public as benefactors and let others to be ravaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. Please, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Minister. It needs a clear legal framework, because there are false wills, relatives - ghosts involved - and they are the Minister of Justice here, and they are, if you like, and responsible, good morning, Mr Paradise - in relation to a legislation that must be in place for the responsibilities of legal offices and notaries, who are compiling false wills and stealing and releasing the public with false relatives and false rights on legacy. I would like to say this: Mrs Spiraki has come out - I heard this morning because I am being informed of European data - the New Democracy MEP and is pressing for a development bank in Greece, just as other countries have done, to absorb the Yunker package. It has to do with what it says and it's our idea, our suggestion for two years - and you know it - for the development bank and it's in the scooter. I would ask Mrs Spyraki to read a few years ago, three years ago, what we have written with full documentation. Why does the development bank need and what funds can the development bank manage? What's gonna happen to her? Part of its assets, as we have written, must be the values of schooling inheritances and sleeping accounts. Know that for inactive accounts throughout the year in the international interbank system there is one - if you like - by country of different case law, but on average, the twenty-year period is that in which a State has the right to take cash or values, bonds, shares from an account that is inactive and without any heir or beneficiary for more than twenty years of self-righteousness. This money in Greece by calculations I had made in 2012 exceeds EUR 15 billion. It's that amount. I had checked the banks before and the absorptions of all of the four systemic systems. Another very big issue is who's going to get a clearer. Again, the Ministries - both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance - are responsible for who will be chosen as the liquidator and manager of the inheritances. It must be the public and we must make legislation in which all these values go under the single currency, the new development bank, which will finance - if you like - the projects in Greece and development, and at the same time the Ministry of Finance must have absolute supervision. From now on, the figures I know and will give them to the Minister - they are to be investigated in cases pending at the Ministry of Finance - exceed eleven thousand of different benets, the value of which is estimated at more than 10 billion euros. He needs huge control. The values we have at the moment and are'sleeping' - as the terminology says, sleepy accounts, commentary hereditary - have commented because no one is dealing with them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. If part of this money can be recovered as soon as possible with a framework, which will allow us to make use of it, not to find it and say it, to make it sound for the development of the Greek economy, to give jobs to the Greek unemployed and to enter the development bank as active, it will be the best we can do and escape from the size of any lender, who wants to give us money and to exhaust - if you want - the patience of the economy and of the Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u73	I would agree with most of what you said, Mr Kammene, because unfortunately in Greece the public property was not exploited and supported by incomes and public and citizens. It was an object of intertwined interests, lawlessness, exploitation, stealing, trespassing. I, as Deputy Minister of Finance, sometimes cannot sleep in peace when I know that all this huge public property, which is in my power through the ETA and the General Secretariat of the Public Property, does not have the legal framework first of all, but does not have the administrative mechanism to control it. At the moment, the legal framework we have provided for an official established in Thessaloniki to sign documents for the saint of Samothraki. Because we have actually taken care to dismantle the property that is responsible for locally defending public property. They have actually been dissolved through a series of unfortunate interventions. That is why our first priorities are to strengthen both the property services and the General Secretariat of the Public Property and the central services. You said a number before about the legacy. There are legacy legacy legacy, in which if you divide the number of legacies with the number of employees we have, it does not correspond to any legacy or one week of employee's employment. And behind a legacy, we can hide a beautiful property, such as what we have in Philhellenic, which is devastated and has become a pigeon - we are asked for chambers and so far we cannot grant it - or other property, such as Zappeion and a number of other property, which we unfortunately have not been able to use as we should. But what I want to assure you and the House is that in our first priorities it is first of all the overall reform of the institutional framework and then the strengthening and reorganisation of the public property mechanism. It is not possible for the public property that we have found or for the benefit of the benefactors through their fault or from their surplus in the Greek state to continue to allow some to exploit and dilute it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty one students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Kryoneri Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 132/13-11-2015, timely question of the first cycle of the MEP Pelles of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the delay in returning excise duties on agricultural oil, is not being discussed due to the lack of competence of the Minister and deleted. Also, the fifth question, under No 159/17-11-2015, is a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kossilis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, regarding the loss of the hundred-dollar adjustment due to the unilateral reduction by the banks of the amount of the instalment paid in advance by the debtors in the banking account of the arrangement, is not discussed due to the lack of competence of the Minister and is deleted. We move to the second with number 128/11-11-2015 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Manniatis to the Minister of Finance on the implementation of the tax exemption scheme for the energy upgrading of dwellings. You have the floor, Mr. Maniatis, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, we have tabled, as a parliamentary group in the Democratic Independence, a proposal which, in our view, is a very serious development outlet in the area of construction. This is a proposal which, without any cost to the Greek State, can create thousands of jobs and bring about an upgrade and improvement of living conditions in tens of thousands of Greek households. Our proposal is based on the simple thought: at the moment on the building site nothing moves. This is a non-existent market, from which the Greek State receives zero in reality. What we are proposing is a tax exemption for the costs of up to EUR 15 000 that makes a medium and low income household for the energy shielding of his home. According to our estimates, the loss of revenue due to this tax exemption for a realistic relative scenario of fifty thousand homes means a loss for the Greek State of about EUR 95 million. However, due to the issue of invoices by those who will make energy upgrading interventions and of course the collection of VAT, which also does not exist if this action is not done, public revenues are made at EUR 305 million. In essence, therefore, we have a positive balance of about EUR 200 million for an action for which the Greek State does not need to spend one euro. In this regard, you have always considered, according to our study, that up to thirty thousand jobs can be created for one year, that is, thirty thousand man-years of work. In addition, all raw material used for such interventions, from insulation materials, aluminides, bowlers in solar water heaters and even photovoltaics, is almost all produced by Greek companies and manufactured in Greece. Overall - and I shall return to my dentext, Mr President - we believe that there can be a leverage of EUR 1.2 billion, of which there will be a huge benefit for the national economy. These actions can be further extended. Most importantly, however, they respond directly, immediately and developmentally to the great problem of the country and the planet, which is climate change. They also respond directly to the biggest problem of the country, which is the huge unemployment, especially in the building sector, and also offer public revenues, without any additional costs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would simply like to say to you that in the 'I save myself at home' programme, which, during the NSRP, had a total budget of around EUR 540-550 million and has been absorbed as a whole, unfortunately in the new programming period, public expenditure is projected to be around EUR 300 million. Therefore, even in this highly successful programme, we will have much lower energy upgrade actions. I therefore believe that it would be useful for the Ministry's services to consider this proposal, which we have tabled and to move forward in this direction, with any possible improvements they consider necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u77	Mr Papoutsis, you analyse a very important issue and it is in a very positive direction, because we need to see at some point how we connect taxation issues to the issues of sustainable development, ecology and another structure and functioning of the economy. Unfortunately, any tax exemptions on housing energy upgrades have been abolished since 2013 by abolishing most of the discounts and reductions in income tax, so they are currently not. However, at some point we need to get away from the cycle of agreements, prerequisites and all that we were pressing until yesterday in the House - and I think for a while - and we need to open a course of discussion between politicians, socialists, employers and other groups and organisations as to what we want to do. In this debate we must also discuss the issues of strengthening the energy upgrading of dwellings. Because, for example, the Ministry of Finance will give for this winter 105 million for a heating oil allowance, while we could give a large sum of it to at least some areas in Greece - because we are giving an oil subsidy to all of Greece, from Neuroscope to Crete - and often this will be lost in energy-insulated buildings or buildings that do not have elementary insulations. So we need to see how this agenda will change and whether next year, instead of giving it up, look at what we are going to do to strengthen energy buildings. Of course, these issues are the priorities of the Ministry. We are preparing, as you know, the Ministry of Finance, apart from meeting the needs of the agreement and the prerequisites, major tax changes. We want this to be done, as we have said, with dialogue with society, with institutions and with the parties. These proposals will come. In these proposals we have in and such a rational way, because at the moment with the absurdity we have in our tax system, you either repair your pool, you repair the delivery building, or you increase your home energy, you have the same VAT rate. I'm telling you one example. We therefore need to see another operation of the tax mechanism and the issue of the energy upgrading of dwellings. But at some point, the public itself must also see the energy upgrade of its buildings. If you come to see the building in which the Ministry of Finance is housed, it is a joke to talk about energy upgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, Minister, I understand that you have a first extremely positive reaction to the proposal that we have tabled to you. I think it is an important step, at least on such issues relating to the fight against unemployment and, at the same time, the development of a new productive model for the country that fights climate change, that the political forces of the place can find common principles, common strategies, essentially common sites. I have to say to you - in support of what I have said - that, according to all the international studies, for every 1 million euros invested in building, construction works for energy saving are made up of forty jobs. There is no other sector of the economy that creates so many jobs. Furthermore, it is important to stress that we are no longer talking about the old model of construction and new duvets, which, because of the lack of the real estate market, are virtually unused and are investments, which we do not know when they will be amortised. In fact, we are talking about the five million houses of Greek citizens, mainly middle and low incomes, which can be upgraded on the basis of exactly what I said, which is the raw material in a very large proportion, coming from Greek industries, so it also supports the Greek secondary sector. Because you also referred to public buildings, which really must be a priority, I would like to say that during the previous governance there was a debate - and use what I will say to you - with the European Investment Bank, which could finance. Just because loans from the European Investment Bank are not included in the public debt, such an initiative could be used to strengthen the first residence of people who are objectively unable to invest in their homes, but could be used for energy savings in public buildings. According to the data available in 2012, the Greek State at the time of the oil prices and the electricity prices at that time spent around EUR 400 to EUR 500 million per year precisely to warm up or cool the public buildings in the summer. Such initiatives had already begun. We were already clear - to tell you, for example - actions of more than EUR 120 million to upgrade buildings to municipalities, municipal properties, schools, municipal buildings and even municipal gyms, that is, actions that offer social infrastructure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this direction there is an open road. We already have the specifications ready. There is a good approach on the part of the European Commission, precisely because of the World Climate Conference in Paris in December. I hope you will take advantage of this positive direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer Mr. Manatis's denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u81	Mr Maniotis, at the heart of your proposals, it is clear that we agree and will use what has been done in this area. We want to assure that we are also interested in the energy upgrade of public buildings. We lose huge sums in heating and cooling for buildings which are disgusting and most of them are not the property of the Greek State, but their owners refuse to contribute to this process. I would also like to stress the need for the ministries to cooperate, because it is not only the Ministry of Finance, it is also the responsibility of other ministries, so that we can create an institutional framework, in which we can also see the issue you raise in relation to your question, but also the issues, as I said, of the link between taxation and various areas, such as sustainable development, ecology, organic products and a number of other measures that need to be linked to taxation and should not be irrelevant to one another or many times to give counter-incentives on taxation. All this is on the agenda that we have before us, and we sincerely hope that we will have that dialogue that can lead to the best possible solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. We proceed to the first with number 164/17-11-2015, a top-level question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Finance, about the risk of losing the hundred-dollar arrangement for consistent taxpayers. Please, Mr Kamaterre, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u83	Minister, of course, I had tabled the question since the 5th day of the month before the negotiation was even culminating in this matter. Of course, you could ask yourself, after yesterday's and yesterday's debate and the law's vote on this matter, what is the point of discussing it today? But I think, Minister, that it will be good, that it will also help to inform and reflect on all of us, and more particularly on the citizens, a debate which can be held in another context, more relaxed, but also more serious, at a level of support, at least on my part, of government policy and not in the context of yesterday's and the day before, with opposition and also on this subject. You know very well - you most of us - that we have been forced since we voted for this law, by March, with constant amendments to put obstacles to citizens being able to be consistent in monitoring the payment of the instalments they have set. And, while this is a measure that has benefited the public, I have a sense of friction with everyday life and discussions with the citizens that our incomes are being reduced, that more and more of our fellow citizens are coming out of regulation and much more of what we have voted yesterday will necessarily come to a point - I do not know if it will be after a few months, I do not know if it is at the end of the arrangements that we have voted on - from which someone will automatically lose their integration into the law that we will end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So the question is - and we can also discuss in the second phase - what elements we have - about how many more people are in the regulation and how many have come out of the regulation, what we expect to change after 2017 - if I remember correctly - that there will be an even more difficult task and that we will have a massive exit from the regulations and what will happen with daily problems that are created in companies that, when they come out of the arrangement, cannot move, stop paying insurance funds, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u85	In spite of the fact that the law was passed yesterday, the problem, which you rightly mention and point out in your question, has not been fully addressed, because unfortunately we are in front of a silencing task, to deal with the approximately 82 billion outstanding debts, which are increasing by the month. To understand, we're talking about a order of size about 30 billion in 2009 at about the same time. We have now reached 82 billion. Unfortunately, the time has increased. We have a huge problem of collectivity, because we are talking only about debts to the Greek State. We are not talking about debts to the insurance funds. I answer only for debts to the Greek State. If the state doesn't see all this problem realism, we're just going to watch the late debts grow. It is quite right to say that, although they want to, citizens cannot be consistent at the same time in old and new regulations. It is true that there have been solutions in yesterday's agenda and I think it is in the positive direction. Paraphilis and all the curtains of developments in the world may not allow citizens to be informed exactly, but what is important is that the citizens can now resort to new obligations beyond a hundred doses, before their new obligations end, the regulation of the twelve or twenty-four instalments and regulate their doses, on conditions, of course, to deal with these problems. But know that the whole matter of time-limits is a bomb that should not explode. It's a bomb that's inactive, but it's not supposed to shut up, because if we lose taxpayers from the arrangements, the picture we have is that they don't respond. We're talking about huge numbers right now. Only in the arrangements made since February, about one million VAT has been integrated and about eight hundred thousand VAT has been set in the regulation. We're talking about a big part of society. He gave and relieved the setting of the hundreds of doses. We need to do everything possible and in this direction the government operates, so that we can deal with these debts, because I recall again that in December the businessman, the small and medium-sized one, will have to pay the income tax rate, the ETUC's instalment, the hundred-dollar rate, the traffic charges, a number of other tax obligations, but also its insurance obligations. And because there are no machines that cut euros into the homes or businesses of taxpayers, the Treasury must move with realism and sensitivity to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor for three minutes for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you said solutions were made yesterday. It is true that solutions have been given in the context of the pressures of the lenders - the strong ones, let me - which do not go far. You know very well that there will be an increasing number of people coming out of the doses, and that is exactly what I wanted to point out. More specifically, I wanted to ask what we are talking about, how we see the future, to become more specific and to generalise the subject, because it is not the only thing. We know very well that the potentialrs have a whole different policy from us. They have an ideology neoliberal. What we are being forced to do is contrary to what we believe, whether we are talking about the hundred instalments, about privatisation or social expenditure. We know that they have so-called competition rules as an ideology. They do not take into account any social needs. For all the things that are pushing us to do - you know better than all of us - in the name of forming a tax conscience, they don't care if people have to pay, whether they die or kill themselves. And you know very well that they have a punishing attitude, that they do not allow us what we voted on or what we want to do. Here comes the more general question: where are we going? The world's on it. The world underneath this wants, Minister. Are we holding her hope? Where do we hope to succeed? Where do we hope to overthrow this situation? To a change in power correlations in Europe? Is that why we are trying to earn time and gradually implement these measures? Because it is obvious that the government is trying, what cannot prevent, to implement it gradually. Where do we hope? To change connections so that we can once review what we are voting on? Or do we hope that we will achieve these objectives that they set us, at all costs, and that if we implement all these next measures, we will be able to make clear and implement our own parallel or final programme? However, in this whole situation, I do not see any other solutions. You know better than that. But something we have to do to alleviate this world. In other words, you said he can adjust to twelve instalments etc. It cannot, Minister, and you know it - not the twelve to pay either a hundred or all the other obligations. Let us give him the opportunity - you find a way with some circular that will escape the pressures of the lenders - to be able to pay what may and not to lose any rights, at least to have an account for the businessman so that he can move. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And look at this in the context maybe - you know better, I'm not an economist, I'm transporting the agony - of the tax bill you're planning and studying for the use of the card. How will a card be used if the businessman doesn't have an account? This account can also help because of using a card to move the businessman. In other words, you need to take some parallel relief measures, in addition to what we are voting on, because on purpose - let me speak and answer that, if I am mistaken - we are being pushed by some circles, so that the programme does not succeed and we are being led where they want to lead us. How do we resist? I express the concern of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Kamaterre. You have the floor again, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u89	I fully understand, Mr Kamaterre, the anguish and popular discontent you have brought into the Chamber, but, as you can see, we, as members of the government, cannot agree to such designations or try to mislead anyone. It is clear that we must have a different culture of credibility and payments in the country. However, the fact that I am not paying because I want to have it in my mattress and in my box, abroad or elsewhere - because we have a lot of it and that will end - and I am not paying for it, because I cannot pay. We understand that and we face it with realism. Let me just remind you that, although there is a question from some, this provision, like the provision for unrealistic rents, is a typical example of what this government's policy means. The hard and painful negotiation, which starts with two different points, results in a point which the people will judge - and it now judges with the provisions that have come - if it is from where it was started - because I think the Minister of Finance said so too - as to what requirements were to stop the one hundred instalments, if the next day not to pay any new obligations, was not for the public to respond. What was the original request, and I think it was made, is no longer there. And at the moment we have a provision, which gives us the possibility - not, of course, the one given by the hundred instalments, of which you were getting out, if you did not fulfil the 100-dollar obligations and was irrelevant to other obligations, and now for the other obligations we have another time-limit procedure for the next period - before the obligation, in order to get a culture of payments, to go, in a direct or indirect way, with a visit to the DU or via the 'TAXIS', to regulate these issues. What I would like to assure you, however, is that we hope that in what we do we have the people next to us. Because if what we do is not with popular consent, whether or not they go to the House, they have short feet. And we fight as a government in what we do have the popular support. We have said before that we will not impose our policy on the Constitution and on party discipline. We impose it by dialogue, logic and full consciousness of the problems that the people have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much. I would like to add, Minister, that we had the pleasure of seeing a delegation of Members from China, headed by the Vice-President of Parliament, who told us that at a plenary session of the Chinese Parliament - they said that the Members in China are about three thousand - they are considering how to deal with this problem by developing them, namely at a rate of growth of 10%, because they believe, as they have said, it is the only way to improve the lives of your people. As a result, all these measures and the concern expressed by the Members rightly, as well as the measures taken by each government, are repressive, reassuring measures, but they do not solve the problem. In other words, I believe that the Ministry of Economy and Development must quickly think about how development can start as soon as possible, which can solve this problem, which the Members of Parliament are asking each day with their questions. And after the cycle of questions to the Ministry of Finance, we move to the next question, the second question under number 150/16-11-2015, the first question of the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on issues of the implementation of the new Code of Civil Procedure. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Paradulopoulos. Please, Mr Karagunis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, I cannot comment on the previous speaker, who spoke about potential ones. But he spoke so sincerely about the course of this government, which really proves to be disastrous for the place, and said so sincerely, the previous colleague, Mr Kamatos, even spoke of potential lenders. I have the impression that he has taken it as a message to the government - and you were probably referring to the 'Dynasty' - perhaps the old soap opera - full of intrigues and lies, Mr Kamaterre. And in that sense, let me play the pun, I have no intention of turning to your name, but it really doesn't save us even the Kamater's water, it seems, Mr. Comrade! Let me put to the bottom of the question, Minister. I think it is an issue that we are raising with the timely question, which you are aware of very well, and which concerns the implementation of provisions and changes to the Code of Civil Procedure, which have been introduced recently with Mr v. Regulation (EC) No 4335/2015. There, as the House is well aware, short deadlines have been introduced to discuss the treatment and redress and interventions, both in the regular procedure and, of course, in the specific procedures, such as voluntary jurisdiction, injunction and enforcement. So the essence of the question is this: are the courts ready, is the Ministry of Justice ready to respond to the changes made by the new legislative framework? Have you been prepared properly so far for these changes that actually start from 1-1-2016? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And let me make it clear at the outset, Minister, that we are all in favour of speeding up justice. And here, of course, we are to discuss what changes can be made. But everything is judged by the outcome and you know it very well, because we know how the courts operate, under which circumstances and, of course, all this is data. The new system, as you all know very well, will start from 1-1-2016 and the trial of the first pipelines will start about May 2016. At the same time, regular proceedings up to 31-12-2015 shall at least be specified to the Athens Court of First Instance for the beginning of 2019. Many lawyers, then, are clear that they will look at quitting the script, probably having shorter procedures. What does that mean? It means there's going to be a bigger burden for the judiciary, for the judges, who probably count it quadrupled. So here's the question: What have you done so far in human resources, as of course in logistical infrastructure, to respond to this new data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u92	Before I give you the floor, Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above Western theory they are attending our meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building, how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty two students and eight teachers from the Kyrkyra Municipal School of Canals and the Municipal School of Axos Kyrkyras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr. Paradoxopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Karaguni, and good faith is your question and in knowledge is based, since you have been a State Secretary to this ministry. In fact, Greek justice with its infrastructure will now go through a trial with its incorporation into new institutions, both in terms of civil procedure and in terms of bankruptcy law. It will certainly be faced with some difficulties both in the area of its infrastructure and in terms of its staff in particular. Indeed, some efforts have been made to prepare us to deal with the new situation, which I will try to explain to you. First of all, let me tell you that, in my opinion, the most important problem is staffing and less infrastructure. In infrastructures we also have problems, but I rank as a greater problem with staffing, because even if we were to have an increase in our building infrastructure, at the moment we would not have staff who could pay the corresponding posts and lead to the new structures of justice. I will try to give you more specific information on both our infrastructure and staffing, the numbers, at my speed at the moment. Preparing for the new institutions is also being done through strengthening and speeding up, as far as possible, the procedures for mobilising and launching the new electronic infrastructures to help justice. These are projects, which had been launched from the past by previous governments, which have all continued and fortunately gradually completed. These will help speed up, perhaps even address, the overall problem. As far as building infrastructure is concerned, let me say that our problem is not as quantifiable as it is. Some of them go crazy. And we have a specific problem of importance to Piraeus. And in terms of staffing, I will try to answer you at the same speed. We have a prediction of growth - I am not saying that these increases will completely address the problem, but, in any case, they will improve the situation - both with regard to the positions of the anti-prosecutors and with regard to the positions of the primates, especially in relation to the number of pacifists. The new number of forty peacekeepers, added to the old, will help quite a bit to deal with the new material, which will be dealt with by the peace tribunals. The reality is, however, that our great deficit and our great difficulty relates to the number of judicial officers. There the deficit is even greater, it is about three thousand people. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] That is why the Ministry tried to tackle this problem with the institution of mobility, seeking movement from other ministries, who has now helped a great deal. The whole of the Greek society learned about the issue with officials who were released, had been cleared and transferred to the Ministry of Justice, because they had all the qualifications and thus judged the service councils. In this same direction we will try to continue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u94	You have the floor, Mr. Karagunis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all I understand that you understand what the problem is and you know what the shortcomings in the courts really are. That's a good start. We must, however, agree that this issue is not solved by four cleaners who will come and sit in the seat of the Registrar of the court. In order to resolve this very important problem and the new legal reality, which comes in two months' time, starts, we need to give very clear and concrete answers. You have a huge tumor, really. I saw the evidence, Mr Minister - just for the information of the Greek people, and also of Ethiopia - from 1-1 to 15 to 18-10 to 15, when they were tabled - we are talking about the Athens Polymelome Court of First Instance - six thousand twelve actions of regular procedure. And from 1-115 to 18-10-15, during the same period, were filed before the only eighteen thousand eighty-sixty-sixteen regular proceedings. It is estimated that during the first few months of 2016 at least six hundred and fifty new documents will be lodged before the Polymellate and two thousand new documents before the monologue. As well as those already identified by the current system of discussion, which is, of course, still pending, and the resignations of the procedural documents to which I referred. So here we have some very specific gaps, which we need to see, Minister, how they will be covered. Otherwise - and here is the substance of the question, and here we have to answer - the new system cannot function. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have heard - and you quite rightly said - that there is a competitive procedure for peacekeepers, which is for a hundred ninety positions. For the first time, however, to be effective in the first instance - because this is the substance - we will need at least in the first phase - to report to you about the Athens Court of First Instance - a hundred new first-class posts. And the question is this: Even if we decide to proceed with the competitive process of the hundred new judges, it will take, with the period at the Court School, close to a year and a half. The problem is urgent. The problem is in two months from now. Even if you were in the mood - and I expect you to tell me something about it - to proceed to a new competition, it will certainly take us a while that will not solve the problem. What does that mean? I leave, of course, that, at least for Athens - you have rightly said so - in secretarial posts, the number and need are very large. That is why you must insist on mobility. You really need to do something, and our help will be incomplete, because justice has been shattered. Nothing's going on. I hear the screams of agony from both the lawyers and the associations of judges. They say he can't get out. Here, then, we have to see - because it is clear, the figures are never wrong - that if we do not directly make the recruitment of primary judges, i.e. judges, it will not be possible to operate the system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I, Minister, propose that you consider suspending the law for at least six months, because otherwise the desired result will not exist, but above all we will find ourselves in a new very hard reality. See both issues, both the recruitment of judges and the issue of mobility. We're totally in agreement. But consider also the possibility of suspending the law for at least six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Carraguni. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I certainly can't say that it wouldn't make it easier. But here we are dealing with an issue that we have commitments on, and that is why we could not manage it with a decision of our own. What is needed is consultation and agreement between our partners in order to get to that point. In the meantime, however, our obligation is to prepare. I should also like to add something to what you have said, which is an important infrastructure issue, and we need to resolve it quickly, possibly with emergency solutions, but immediately, which is the issue of the electronic auctioning, which, of course, has not found us ready to do. There are speeds with regard to the development of our technical infrastructures, which we cannot get through, and we have forced solutions. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I would like to say that as far as the number of seniors is concerned, the series which now ends at the Court School will now be found at the headquarters of the summer of 2016. In other words, we will have an additional of about sixty people, five first-time judges and fifteen prosecutors, in addition to ninety-four peacekeepers you mentioned. We also have other individual positions, which I think we will be able to increase. Of course we will resort to the institution of mobility, which is a great help. Mr. Karaguni, I will try to inform you in writing. I will ask our services to send you detailed and up-to-date information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary scrutiny session is under way, with the debate on the topical and urgent questions. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eukleidis Tsakalotos, will deposit the State Budget for the financial year 2016. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the particular honour of presenting to the House the state budget and its draft report for the financial year 2016, as well as the volume for tax expenditure in 2016. Mr President, I would ask you to set dates for the state budget debate in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and in the plenary session of this House. I also present the reports of the Directors-General of the State General Accounting Office, tax administration, customs and excise duties, public property and public utilities of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the statement provided for in Article 58 of the Law. See recitals 42 and 42 of the 2014 Aviation Guidelines, paragraph 1 of the 2014 Aviation Guidelines, paragraph 2 of the 2014 Aviation Guidelines. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you how this budget debate will take place. It will be launched in the relevant Standing Committee on Economic Affairs on Wednesday, 25 November 2015, in four meetings, after consultation with the Bureau of the Commission. The debate in Parliament's plenary will begin on Tuesday, December 1, 2015, in accordance with Rule 123(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and will end on Saturday, December 5, 2015, by holding a roll-call vote. It's up to five meetings, it says the Rules of Procedure. We are going to run out of all five meetings. So with a comfort, one can say, the parliamentary groups will also be able to make public the parties making public about the data of this year's budget. Thank you. We will continue the debate on topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u101	We continue with the first with number 142/16-11-2015 topical question by Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the need for the immediate removal of the vessel "Mytilini" from the port of Carlovas Samos. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Dritsas, will answer this timely question. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you for coming here to answer the question. It concerns the stay of the ship "MYTILINE" in the port of Karlovaio Samos, which has been immobilised for eight months, inoperative and desert. It is essentially an important risk to both the operation of the port, but potentially - from the ecological side at least - and to the coastal zone of Karlovak. The ship has been abandoned. The company no longer uses it, and it deviates from the certificates, which will make it airborne. There had been a major working conflict in the past few months and today it has been immobilized and dangerous. The committee responsible has met since 19 October and has expressed its opinion on the risk and malfunction in the port. Let me point out that the work of the port is not completed. I want to know by what procedures and how the Ministry will intervene so that the ship can be removed directly from the port of Charlotte to Samos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Sevastaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Sevastakis, thank you very much for the question, and I apologise for it has been tabled again, but very serious impediments have prevented me from being here and answering the two previous times. It's a well-known problem. This ship broke down early next year, remained mechanically damaged at the port of Karlovasi, Samos, and since then attempts were made to transport, towed and towed into the port of Piraeus to enter a repair process, because the repair could not be done in Samos. Developments have not helped in this direction. There have been serious issues of employment claims that you know about. The crew declared a presumption of employment, and as long as that looseness lasted, that was an additional reason why the ship could not be moved. Thus, all efforts at that time to transport the ship did not pay. Then, a process began, as the workers were asking and right, because they were abandoned. The Ministry has helped a great deal - and you know it - as long as the workers were there to support, but Samos' society has helped it, the solidarity organizations and the Working Centre of Samos. In any case, the situation has come to an end. Workers have applied for abandonment, for them to be subject to the abandonment procedures, for the abandoned crew, as provided for in the legislation, and from there on, the Ministry started the procedure, which was completed on 26 August. So you realise that, now, after the September elections, the procedures, which are laid down in the legislation, have begun to be initiated, because the ship is in the engraved maritime zone of the port of Charlotte, the first Service to initiate the procedure is the Port of Samos, which is a municipal port fund. Indeed, there have been procedures to which you have referred. At the moment, with the current legislation, the lawyer who must have been designated must proceed to some steps and once the Fund's opinions have been ratified, he has made a written invitation to the owner to remove the ship and eliminate any harmful consequences over a period of one month. Apart from that, we must seek any creditors, seek the mortgage of the ship, examine the expropriation costs, the value of the ship, so that, if the shipowner does not respond, the provisions of the 2001 Act, and from there on, a procedure will be followed, which is not in any case short, but long. We are trying, on the basis of the provisions of the law, to look for short removal solutions. I am not in a position at this time to announce them, because they are complicated and they must have taken precedence over these moves and then enter the implementation process. I've described the anticipated movements of the lawyer. Then we'll enter special provisions provided for by the law. Regulation (EC) No 2881/2001, and in particular Article 5(2) thereof. If all the efforts now being made by both the Port Fund and the envisaged procedure do not work, then we are looking for the activation of this process. The Mayor of Samos has been interested in discussing with him. There is an empty question, who will take the cost if the company is at the moment nonexistent and the conditions are not met to actually be called to meet. If the auction procedures of the ship are opened - I told you that they are time-consuming, but these are the rules - intermediate solutions exist in accordance with the procedure of n. 2881, but also there, without there being any certainty as to who is responsible for transport and towing costs. All of this is in continuous study. I imagine we will find one end without being so simple and easy, because, not least, the legislation provides for various regulations and procedures, but it does not provide for penalties for them, and that is a problem. I conclude by saying that in the interim period, the port authorities of Samos and the port authority have taken steps to strengthen the safety of the ship and not to have any problem with regard to any further dangerous situations. I want to believe that in the next few months we will have a good development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u105	Do you want to use your dentistry, Mr. Sevastaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u106	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u107	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u108	Since last year we have been discussing the administrative problems that the maritime sector is facing, namely the main development tool of the island region, and your description highlights these aspects, Minister. Although this year we have a great improvement in shipping and the quality of ships and the frequency of routes have improved greatly, I wonder: Is the towing costs or the immersion costs? What are we weighing? If it sinks, the ecological and structural disaster in the port of Karlovaio will be too great and I fear that under the current economic conditions it will not have a return. In this way, therefore, we must even launch fast track procedures - as it is fashionable in the new political conditions - so that the ship can be towed. We need to devise structures, provisions and mechanisms so that they can leave as soon as possible. The port of Karlovaio is north and is very affected. The risk is not only related to attachment. It is also about electrolysis, as I am told, since it is not powered and therefore also about dismantling, the degradation of the ship. That dark side I want to put it in our minds. I will try to work with the Ministry, which, moreover, very often, is flexible and invents ways of solving problems, despite all the pressure from the refugee population. We recognize that. The spring or winter season has nothing to do with this year's summer. Things have improved very much. I am sure we can look for roads to speed up the process and make sure of it. To restore the port of Karlovaio, which is now also a gateway from Turkey and therefore also has a role of an transnational bridge, is very important and strategic for our island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u110	Mr Sevastakis, if I gave the impression that the Ministry does not understand the seriousness of the problem, to restore reality. We understand it very much. Of course, at the moment, we have no indication of direct risk and dismantling. But potentially - and no one knows how quickly these things can be done - it can happen. And therefore, every action must provide for and not come back to collect the uncomfortables. In this direction we are moving and we are sure that all efforts are in the direction of removing the ship soon. I described the previous period, which could not in any case be initiated on account of the impending procedure. This was all closed on 26 October. This has also been linked to a very important intervention by the Ministry, which should be submitted and remembered. The process of compensation for seamen - through the process of abandonment and their compensation - has moved in the most systematic way and people have been vindicated, while covering the interests of NAT and the public. All this adventure that has afflicted Greek shipping and the Ministry and especially the seafarers themselves, the workers of NEL, has found a very good path, with their fairness, which is now in the final phase, passing through systematic stages, with inventions many times within the legal framework, as you said. Because we don't give up. We are trying to devise solutions where everything shows that there are no solutions. This is the spirit of the Ministry now, and not only mine, but also of the services. This is where the process is going, and this is obviously not a question of whether or not this cost is important. It's just that we need to find a solution. If there is no one who has to do this, that is to say, the shipowner, and if it is not for a hundred reasons - and if we are not able to do this in principle - then we need to find a legal solution to this. And we'll find her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and five educational attendants from the 10th Tripolis Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I must tell you that today you are attending a parliamentary control meeting at which Members are invited separately by the Minister responsible and asked questions. That is why you do not see a plenary, that is, you do not see the three hundred Members of this House today. I say this because questions often arise because they are not the MPs here. Today it is a meeting of so-called parliamentary control. Ladies and gentlemen, the sixth question by No 127/11-11-2015 of the First Cycle of the President of the Potamiou, Isona Fotilla, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the sudden change in head of the Greek Police Internal Affairs Directorate, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The eighth Question No 144/16-11-2015, on the first cycle of the Member of the Union of Centres, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on security and protection measures for Greek citizens within the borders, due to the phenomenon of ‘Islamic terrorism’, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with No 126/11-11-2015, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens MP, Mr.Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the attitude of the Ministry in dealing with international assessors at the schools of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fourth question under number 140/16-11-2015 is the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kosilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the threatened sanction for the loss of power in cases of default by consumers, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister and deleted. The sixth Question No 158/17-11-2015, the first-cycle question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Health, on the problem of Achaia's Health Centres, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The first question under number 165/17-11-2015 of the second question by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diakrias to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the authorisation of the fishing plant in Porto Germenos, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The second question, under number 148/16-11-2015, of the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the bureaucratic obstacles to the production of the legendary Greek car Pony, will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister and deleted. The third under No. 151/16-11-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the self-relief of the Greek Open University, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. We continue with the third with number 147/16-11-2015 top-level question of the first Piraeus MEP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the upgrading of maritime education. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, by letter the Panhellenic Association of Merchant Navy Masters on 2-10-2015 had informed the Ministry of Shipping's leadership of the problems in maritime education. There is a lack of permanent naval teachers, delays in recruitment. In general, there is a denaviation at all schools and at the KESEN, Captain and Engineering. There is also a problem in literature and matter. There are also building problems. All the above problems push seafarers into private education. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would like to make a knowledge of a study that was carried out in 2013 by the University of Athens, by the Statistical Department of Finance. He had given a questionnaire to students at AEN schools. On whether they are satisfied with their educational trips, they had responded positively to 45%. On whether they are satisfied with their studies they had responded positively to 30%. They had all generally raised issues of their dedication to schools in terms of curriculum material. Do you ask, Minister, what will you do to solve these problems with a view to upgrading maritime education?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kouzilo. The Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Theodores Dritsas, will answer for three minutes. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u114	I'll try to tell you what we've done so far. It's a very small part of what we want and we're planning to do. In fact, we believe that maritime education is a pillar in general of maritime policy and of the maritime economy. Without upgraded, solid and adequate maritime training, there cannot be shipping and there can be no seafarers with dignity, rights and personality, as seafarers should be, and the tradition of Greek seafarers requires. That is why any labelling is made by every body, but in particular by the Pan-Hellenic Association of Seafarers of all classes, it is for us a bell that we put it first. I can assure you that both with the administration and with the President, Mr Georgios Vlao, we are working together and discussing all matters systematically, but of course also with the other associations of seafarers. We want maritime education in public and upgraded. Indeed, we have experienced the phenomenon of deterioration, permanent abandonment and neglect of public maritime education, which has now arrived, and because of the economic crisis and the well-known difficulties in budgets, at an even lower level. That is what we have received and we are slowly trying to bring it up, and precisely by turning it up to us to justify public maritime education and to prevent any kind of arguments from being supported in the direction of diffusion to its privatization. The lack of permanent training staff at the Commercial Navy Academys and at the Training Centres of the Navy in KESEN is due on the one hand to limit recruitment to the State, due to the budgetary policy applied for all these five years and also to the abolition by the governments of the period 2009-2014 of the organic positions. Two hundred thirty-four organic positions were and fell to eighty! Now it is very difficult, although I will explain that we are trying to increase them again, but you realise that in this budgetary maximum, having two hundred and thirty-four organic positions and having eighty is a very unfavourable starting point. As part of the recruitment planning for the '15s, we have drawn up relevant tables - both the services and the Ministry - for the needs. We've promoted them at the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. They are along with all the relevant bodies and Ministries in the final decision on the allocation and coverage of any vacancies of the educational staff on the part of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. This concerns, not only maritime education, both the port and other services of the Ministry of Shipping. We are in constant communication and cooperation with the relevant Ministry and I think we will have some positive development. I can't tell you what height. I hope for the best possible, but in any case, we will have a positive development soon for public maritime education, covering at least a number of empty organic posts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u115	The rest in your dentistry, Minister, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. You said about public maritime training. Indeed, I have expressed your support for public maritime education, for how to upgrade it, but also for questions you have asked in your previous parliamentary terms and not for private maritime education, namely the NEIs. There is the legislation and related FEK of 20 October 2014 - if we are against private maritime education, we can abolish it - which contains a presidential decree, which says for a successful graduation from the relevant courses of study of the Centre for Training of Maritime Staff or NEKE. But this is how we give a push for private maritime education, and we actually degrade public maritime education. Without money, without placing budgets as the objectives of the government, etc., we can only be able to help public maritime education. Also, there are some issues. The ICC has dealt with - and good for them - and has found through the NSRF how to have all the simulators academies. But do you know that a counselor stuck this whole thing at some point and accidentally came to your secretary's ears and that if your secretary hadn't been informed, would you never know? There are some advisors who do bad at the moment in naval education. While most of the ICC is engaged, trying, struggling, there are one or two people in the ICC that are causing serious problems. Naval tutors. There may be no director of studies, either in the masters or in the engineers and not be master or engineer. And all this sticks to a loophole that exists in a legislation, where one should be three years permanent. With a simple amendment, I think you have changed it without money. In other words, they are simple changes that we can make to help - I stress - public maritime education, without problems and without costs. The naval education chapter also covers 70% so far. Can we increase it? There are even other examples to see that some people stick to the ministry's issues. Scientific associates are starting at the Naval academies. I have a piece of paper here. Listen. Captain I with a diploma he deposites his papers as well as a number of others to become a naval teacher. Because you don't incubate, do you know what it is? He doesn't own a school master's license. And here next door - I'll give you the paper to see, I don't want the name to be heard - says there's a paper Captain I. If that's not the problem, someone's stuck. Someone is currently creating problems in naval education. I would like to finish - so I don't abuse your time - with postgraduates. A co-operation with the universities throughout the country, I think, will be essential to start postgraduate. All seamen are now forced to go abroad. While there is the structure, I think the legislative framework for the Greek universities should be lacking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kuzilo. Mr Dritsas, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I would say that it would not be bad for any specific document to be tabled in the Minutes. I have open eyes, open ears - and the ministry has, not only I - in all these directions and we're investigating everything. I'm continuing from the previous ones, and I'm going to get what you've put into your dentistry. Exceptional recruitment procedures started this year two months earlier than any previous training period. Two hundred and twenty-seven temporary staff have already been hired from the total of thirty-three hundred and thirty-three scheduled under this procedure. All proceedings within the following days shall be completed in full. School managers: there is indeed one problem. We are resolving the issue at the moment on the basis of the legislation in force. If it cannot be solved more comprehensively, it is obviously always in our minds that legislation is not our first thought, but it is not our first thought. Now, upgrade the AEN and the public schools, new timetables for detailed programs. Since this year they have been implemented by the Revised International Convention of Manila. The new CEDEFOP curriculum has been validated in September 2015. It obviously responds much better to the demands of modernization and studies. It includes courses and new curricula of promotional, diplomas, masters, engineers (a) and second grades and special education departments. Therefore, we can not only solve specific cases, but we can solve all this as a whole. And precisely these programs will allow masters and engineers both by completing their training to obtain new evidence of naval capacity according to c.d. 141/2014 and thus new increased rights fully regulated. I'm on my way because I don't have the time. This question is not exactly timely. It would be better to answer a regular question from you. In any case, for the NSRF, we had precisely in the peninsula to save four programmes. We saved the two and a half. We have done so and have already made progress with the installation of three simulators systems and two ARPA radar simulators at the Ionian Islands, Kymis and Epirus schools. I think it has been accepted with great satisfaction that other schools are now jealous and saying 'we too', because these are very useful tools. And of course in this direction, now in the new ESRB we have planned for the years 2014 to 2020 for all schools supplying modern educational and logistical equipment totalling about EUR 41 million. I don't have time to go on. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. I have to say that a great deal of effort is being made for the building facilities. We have already made progress - not since the previous period - in repairing building facilities in Syros, Hydra. What this House and you deserves to know about is the evolution, the rupture at last after many years of the Machinery Building with the sponsorship of the Greek Shipowners' Association, which was a very positive intervention on this point. The School of Engineering, which has now been nearing the decade - most of its buildings had remained inactive, now within the next few days, not only will it reopen full growth, but also more than double the number - as has already been proclaimed and advanced - of its students, which was a constant need and demand. I'm ending up with another important development. In cooperation with both the Ministry of Transport and the Minister responsible, Mr Spirtzi, and other co-legislative ministers, we have brought back specifically for the students of the School of Asylum - we cannot broaden it in general, but that is the main necessity - the pass on the transport of students by public transport. And that was an old reality that all the previous years had ceased to apply. They are small and medium-sized, but very importantly - they are all aware of it - and of years of loose end, which are slowly resolved. I think that on this we can rely on a more comprehensive design next year, which I believe we will be able to put it on an even more solid basis and run it more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u121	Thank you to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Thodoris Dritsa. We move to the fifth, with No. 168/17-11-2015, a topical question by the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics, Development and Tourism, on the closure of the company "Coca - Cola Three Epsilon" in Volos. The question will be answered by the Minister, George Katrugalos. Mr Steeriou has the floor for two minutes to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, since 1986 the Coca-Cola Three Epslon Industry has been operating in Volos in the 1st BIP, which has modern technology equipment and well-qualified staff. Today it employs about one hundred and eighty workers, with various employment relationships, permanent staff, seasonal contractors. The industry, with its production, fully meets the needs in Central, West and Northern Greece, as well as throughout Greece, because it is the only industry that produces refreshments in bottles. On November 11th, Wednesday, quite unexpectedly, industry's administration announced to the Workers' Association the closure of Volos' plant, effectively and literally tossing the families, who work at the factory. It is worth noting that the company has announced that it is transferring its productive activities to its other factory in Shamari. However, we must say that it incorporates this transfer into an investment of EUR 24 million and according to its own documents, none of this investment is foreseen. - a new job. On the other hand, in its decision to close the plant, the company is blackmailing workers to accept and choose until November 27th, or to find themselves on the street, goldening the pill of dismissal with the voluntary withdrawal by means of something more than their compensation, or to break off, demolishing their families and burgling their social and family tissues, at Schmatari at the other plant. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Mr President, if you'll kindly. It's a very serious matter. Here, Minister, we must stress that the industry at Volos was providing a significant proportion of raw materials from local producers, namely fruit juices, cartons, labels and others, and that satellites around the factory are working on a number of craft industries and other suppliers, i.e. machinery and other companies that provide the factory. So the blow - and I shall end, Mr President - for the workers and the local economy will be heavy, particularly in an area where unemployment is up to 35%. So we ask you, Minister, what is the government's position on this issue and what measures will you take so that the factory does not close, that the production process in Volos remains, that the unemployment rate does not rise any further and that the economic scourge affecting our region is not extended? Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Steerios. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr. Georgios Katrugalos. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Steriou, as you know, the position of the entire government is, not just in favour of the forces of work in this framework of the jungle that has been formed this five-year period, but also in favour of trying to reverse deindustrialisation everywhere in Greece and especially in old - traditional areas, I mean - industrial regions such as the ones of Volos. So, and in this case, it could not be different to that of the need not to move away from industrial deindustrialisation, that there should be no further unemployment problem in the region, which is as you described it. Obviously, we welcome any new investment which will create a positive balance in jobs and not a new job, rather than a new job. As you know, there has already been the first meeting with the Volos Labour Centre, with the employees' representatives from both the Association and their Federation, the Ministry of Labour, with your presence and yours - which was particularly creative - and the other members of the prefecture. We have therefore already responded positively to our commitments. We have also, as you know, planned for the next Tuesday's even wider meeting, in which I called today for the regional director to be present, since this is a broader matter and not just for Volos, but for the whole of Thessaly, and he responded positively. The Members of the Law will be present again. We have also called on the employer to come to the highest possible level of representation, so that he can negotiate. I would also ask the Minister for Development, Mr Stathakis, to attend or send his representative. In view of this, I repeat my commitment to the programme statements, which I have repeated many times and to relevant topical questions, that I think you are objectively allies in our attempt to limit the jungle to the situation that prevails throughout the country and the trade union movement much more. So I would ask you to check on us when we fail to act as you would like, when you have seen that we do not respond to your proposals. Here, I think, is an extremely important case that we have responded immediately and I think that parliamentary control would be a good thing to follow. I think it is a bit premature to exercise parliamentary control on something that we are actually acting together so far. And to say to you - by clearly recognising the ideological differences that exist, we do not want you as partners in the government work - what I have said on several occasions in the programme statements, and I repeat now that, especially in the face of the labour market jungle, we have a common target. The efforts we have made in this respect from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour have done so. As you already know, as you know, the major issue that was created in Yannina with the recycling plant, primarily thanks to the workers' struggles - I will never say anything different - but also why we took an initiative on the tripartite issue that we had in the Ministry. I have reiterated that the powers that existing legislation gives us are not many. However, I myself, as long as I am in this position - because this is the will of the government - will be exhausted as far as possible. We do not want to see lawlessness and terror in work, and as long as we can try to impose that on legality, regularity, on the lack of fear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Stergiou has the floor for his dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, we do not question your intentions not to close the factory for any reason. But we would like to tell you that today's question to your Ministry is about anxiety, which currently holds the workers of 'Coca-Cola', but also the working class of our region in general. What we want to stress, Minister, is that the industries and business groups today operate within a legislative framework which was in existence, which you maintain and which is completely anti-competitive and which is totally exploited by this industry. How? I'll tell you, Minister. We believe that one of the reasons why the company closes the factory is that Volos is the only factory in the 'Coca-Cola' group, where there is a union, where there is an operational contract, where the workers have built-in labour rights and are rewarded with the sectoral contract and other benefits, which the union and the workers have achieved with their struggles. On the other hand, there has been no association for twenty-five years in the Formulamari, and the workers are the rafts of the anti-government legislative framework, which you are maintaining and, if I may say so, you will strengthen in the future. Therefore, the closure of the Volos unit is related to this framework that I mentioned before which it contributes to the greater profitability of industry: rubber workers, workers with non-integrated labour rights, workers who will be charitable to the Employer's horizons. Dear Minister, you mentioned that the forces of work are the ones that need to move the economy forward. We say that the forces of work stand out. It is the working class that moves the economy forward today. It is the working class - and in particular the workers at the 'Coca-Cola' - who must today draw conclusions on who really has the keys to the economy and power in that country. At this stage, Minister, we would like to point out that the workers of the 'Coca Cola' are struggling not to close the factory. We'll be there and we'll be there for all our forces in the fight they're doing so they don't close the factory. Let me briefly tell you and strengthen my argument, Minister, that a year ago the company in Volos closed its "Amita" production line, which employed about forty people and transferred the productive activities of this section to the Shadow, again goldening the pill, with voluntary departures again giving the workers who would go to Shadow. Do you know how many people went to Formaturery, Minister? Five people from Volos and they were the only new jobs created in Shamari. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I'm done with this. It is precisely because the workforce is shrinking, on the contrary, the production activity of industry and the production capacity is growing and the work with fewer workers is intensified. We do not disagree that the technology today is the one that also moves production, but technology must serve human needs, in the sense that since we have technological development, workers today must enjoy this development by reducing their working time from eight to six hours, to seven hours and so on. Instead, we have technological development, we have a reduction in labour force, a higher percentage of the turnover, a higher rate of increase in the country's production capacity. Mr President, you also said that our timely question is being asked at a time when there is a negotiation process. Yeah, we know. We had a meeting together and a conversation. But, Minister, I would like to say that the publicity of all the problems, but also of the individual, helps to put pressure on the employer, but also on you to find this great solution to the problem. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Steerios. The Minister has the floor, Mr Georgios Katrugalos, to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u128	It's true, you're right. The existing legislative framework, as established in this five-year period, obviously wants to get the unions out of the workplace. In particular, the possibility of concluding operational collective agreements with associations of persons. It's the things we're trying to change. We are obviously totally opposed to this practice and consider it precisely to be contrary to European regularity. That is why you will see that I have tried many times to say that our attempt to return to a regulated work field is not revolutionary practice. It is simply a return to what is happening in the rest of Europe, and that is what we are trying to do. In the next few days, the attempt to internationalise and highlight the European dimension of this topic is that the Director-General of the ILO International Labour Organisation comes at 27 on 30 and 1 on the first of this month, precisely in order to strengthen our efforts. In addition, I think that this issue should be coordinated with helping the workers in the particular struggle they are doing, helping the local society to keep an industrial unit that gives life, not only for the workers, but also for a whole web of cooperatives of smaller professionals and I hope that it will be productive, our joints, at this meeting next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u129	Thank you to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. George Katrugalos. We move to the second with No 130/13-11-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2 Athens of the New Democracy, Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need to exclude disabled and severely disabled persons from the new reductions in the third memorandum. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotou. Mrs Papakostas has the floor for two minutes to develop her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. I considered it my duty, Mr President, to present a timely question to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity to the Parliamentary Control process, because I believe that the state is not merely bound by statements of sensitivity and solidarity with the people who are disabled or seriously disabled, but must also prove it in this regard. Otherwise, Mr President, we are in danger of making that procedure that Thucydides is looking very strongly at the Epitafius, saying about the demagogue politicians that we are seeing their words and we are listening to their works. I would therefore like to ask the relevant Minister, who also has responsibility, because last night he was voted in the Greek Parliament with two losses on the part of the government majority, the law on prerequisites and among them and the auctions for the first residence, where there was no state where the declared sensitivity of the exclusion of disabled people or of heavy mobility with regard to the citizens who have it was not present. Therefore, I am entitled to ask today about those statements on possible taxation of allowances, wages and pensions which have caused confusion. That's the first part. In addition, there is also a possible reduction in the extra-institutional allowance for grievance, quadrupleness, which is currently being received by disabled people and with severe kinetic disability, which has already been granted in 1981. Because I must say, Mr President, that people with disabilities and with severe mobility, in addition to the immediate need for the costs of living in the average citizen, also have additional costs due to their disability. And thirdly, Mr Katrugalos was here, who had to stay because that was his responsibility. The famous Committee of Wise Men in its proposals for the insurance system of the country and for the application of the minimum guaranteed income includes elements which have caused uncertainty, namely - and I finish my first placement - the fear is that the 'broadcasting' of the privileges which the previous government has made with great sensitivity, despite the economic crisis, will lead to the impoverishment of people with disabilities and of their families. The question is raised by the Minister. I'm waiting for her answer to be placed in my dentistry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Papakosta. The Deputy Minister, Mrs Theanos Fotio, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u132	Mrs Papakostas, I am pleased about the question you are asking, as I know very well about your actions and your struggles for people with disabilities. I therefore answer you not demagogically, as you suggested many times that politicians do, but essentially. Firstly, as you know from our basic announcements, one of our key elements is that by law that we will bring within this period, in this time, i.e. Parliament, and I mean by September 2016, we will institutionalise and strengthen all the institutions of dehydration. In this sense, I think we are obviously allies in the field in no way cutting off any allowances and in no way making disabled people subject to institutions, and today they can be maintained through the pensions of the people who help them or through the allowances at home as well. That's the first. You know very well and we are also committed to specialising the national strategy for social inclusion that we submitted in June 2015, that the protection of SMEs, namely those with disabilities, is one of the pillars of European social policy. In the context of the recent arrangements with the 4336/2015 and as expressly defined in Ministerial Decision 11321/2310/2015, FEC 2311, issued by a delegated act, are exempted from the new age limits retired under the provisions of Law No.612/1977, as applicable, as well as mothers and widows who are incapable of any child’s life-saving work. Secondly, particularly with regard to the extra-institutional allowance for grievance and quadrupleness, and the risk of paraplegic and quadruple being forced to resort to institutions, our policy, as I have said, is precisely in the opposite direction. As you well know, the application of the minimum guaranteed income is not linked to the insurance law. The application of the minimum guaranteed income, which will be gradually initiated in 2016 as of 1 April to complete and become uniform on 1 January 2017, excludes disabled persons and never refers to cuts in any type and nature to disabled persons. We have explicitly ensured this throughout the whole contract for the study that the World Labour Bank is doing on pre-emptive ones. We do not have to take these proposals into account, but on this level for the revision of the entire pre-accession system, in the agreement that we have made in a clear way - I can also give you the contract - it is stated that the study is not in any way about the privileged benefits of people with disabilities. I therefore hope that what you are asking in your first presence is a satisfactory response.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio, Deputy Minister. Mrs Papakostas has the floor for three minutes for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very grateful to Mrs Fotou for her good report on the issues that I have raised. I put it this way, because I would like to say this, Mr President. The good intentions always, unfortunately, in the history of mankind have proved to lead to a road that is sown with good intentions leads to hell. In that sense, I want a commitment, Minister. And note: The minimum guaranteed income was our policy, which had started pilots, and which was, of course, interrupted, due to the election being proclaimed and the country's governance changed. With your words, I am pleased to hear the invoicing of the minimum guaranteed income, because a policy that is correct and which helps society and especially the sensitive social groups is confirmed. That is the first point. Because everything is recorded in the Minutes, and that is the meaning - if you like - of parliamentary scrutiny in plenary, where the ministers come to answer, I leave here, Mr President, with the following commitments, if I understand correctly. If not, tell me exactly what will happen. The commitment, therefore, to be made as a competent Ministry and as a competent Minister, is not to link the minimum guaranteed income - to clarify it - with the privileged allowance in order to avoid an additional reduction, as we agree, of the incomes of the disabled. This is your first commitment. Your second commitment is the immediate exclusion of disabled people with severe mobility from new reductions resulting from the agreement you signed, i.e. from the third memorandum. And the third commitment is not to reduce the extra-institutional grievance and quadruple allowance. Because here I must put you in the following dimension, which the state has not understood to the extent and the extent to which it must: You need to know, Mrs Fotio, that a number of the expenditure is not, unfortunately, covered by the EEAS and people with disabilities need 24 hours of care, provided by their caregivers, who are not other than their brothers, their husbands, their parents or also by qualified staff in some cases. So that is what I realise has fallen to your attention, so that you can understand that these people suffer a double burden. Therefore, Mr President, I also leave with the commitment that this will be avoided, since I do not think that our fellow citizens with disabilities, in particular with heavy mobility, are covered by the State's benefits, as a sign of equal and equal treatment and minimum justice against their rights, for which I think we are all concerned. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u136	Mrs Papakotas, I am pleased about the repetition of what I have said, because perhaps in this way they are made more reliable in your view. Well, I totally agree. But you have said some things that do not apply. The first is that we never interrupted the implementation of your pilot program to thirteen municipalities and a total of twenty thousand people. And so far we are well disbursed and on the basis of all the cross-checks made by the pilot project, which you had done as a government, as far as the minimum guaranteed income is concerned. In fact, within the days we are amending your own decision to give 20 million to this minimum guaranteed income, because they have not arrived and because we have to give 28 million, which we have predicted. So we never stopped it. I have to say again and again, as I have repeatedly said about the minimum guaranteed income, that as applied to thirteen municipalities piloted it has great mistakes and it has only covered one pillar of the three that it had to cover. Hence, not covering the last, the third and very decisive pillar, namely finding work - 'inclusion' is the third pillar, Mrs Papakostas - and people are in this situation because they are not workable mainly, as you know. Therefore, without the third pillar that was not foreseen and nothing happened at this level with the pilot application, I have to tell you that out of the twenty thousand who entered the pilot run, only forty-four came out. So, when we said that if the minimum guaranteed income were not properly planned, there would be huge poverty and poverty trap, we were right. Because only forty-four came out. Do you know what it means, Ms. Papakosta? That if you do not manage for people who go in, giving them this little money, that is to say, up to 400 euros for four-member families - which means that, if you have 300 euros, you fill in the other 100 euros, because this is the most famous story of the minimum guaranteed income - if you don't get them services, that is to say, giving them a rent for either electricity or food aid, things we did about the humanitarian crisis, then that man stays in there and then does a black job to keep getting the 100 euros and 150 euros. So excuse me. As far as disabled people are concerned, you yourself in your timely question confess that your previous governments have cut you off because of the two previous memos. It says here: 'the application of the first two Memorandums has led to a significant reduction in disabled people'. Mrs Papakostas, we were not the government at the time when you lowered the wages, pensions and all the benefits. So please, I want us to work together in this sensitive area. Don't blame me for lightness or for things I'm trying to say politically and I'm not trying to do. I think we'll work together, because I know your work, and that's where I'm investing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy" organized by the Foundation, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Alimos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue parliamentary control with the fourth under the number 153/16-11-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the "Help at Home". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Theanos Fotou. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor to develop his timely question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. The National Strategy for Social Integration, the Framework, was submitted in December 2014 and we got the approval. By June the Ministry had to submit the specialty. Indeed, in July, the answer that rejects not all, but most of the specialization of the national strategy, came.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u139	These are dangerous...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u140	Don't insist. You lied enough, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Kegeroglu,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u142	Madam Minister, don't insist. Please, I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u143	As regards the minimum guaranteed income, which was a pilot project in thirteen municipalities, it unfortunately did not have the chance to have completed with another perception, but with Mrs Fotio's perception, which in the first time said she would abolish it. He's punished it. Of course, the criticism he made about the failure of the second and third pillars is true. However, its Ministry was also responsible for providing services for the beneficiaries and labour integration, for which we committed 20 million. Evidently, Mrs Fotiou is addressed to Mrs Antonopoulou or Mr Katrugalo, who did not make them available for the job rehabilitation. He talked about supporting people with disabilities. Let me say that what is internationally valid today and Greece has done so in its strategy and is a priority is autonomous and supported living. In this context, you must have a home, a family environment and you must be supported. Yesterday we discussed first residence. The Minister for Rural Development has come and talked about the tax on wine and asked to be reduced. The relevant Ministry of Labour "tubéki" yesterday for the support of disabled people, for the three-twelfths, for the tents, to give special support to these people and further protection of their residence! The proposal of the ESDC has been rejected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, the issue of income criteria and the non-calculation of benefits should also be legally established. The only guarantee that exists today is the joint ministerial decision I have signed and referred to the guaranteed social income and must also be guaranteed by law. In order for children to stay in their homes, however, to stay disabled, we need two things: open support structures and education structures for these people, shelters of supported living, and of course the 'Help at Home' programme. So let's go to the support structures for children and, in particular, to the forty-four structures that train and support disabled children. Unfortunately, not only for ten months have you stopped financing these structures, not only until June when you had to make a joint ministerial decision in accordance with your own law, you did not make it, but on November 16, and before October 29, you refused to see the parents. I would ask you too much instead of lies, instead of irony, and instead of anything else, to see the federation of parents and to work together to support these forty-four structures with the thousands of fourteen children trained there. It is unacceptable to say in November 2015 that ‘June passed’. Don't say you didn't say that. June came through and the decision didn't come, now it's not. Don't tell me you didn't tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u144	In your dentistry, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u145	I'm closing, Mr. President. Decrease the time of my dentistry. 'Help at home'. There was a positive step after the occupation they made in your office. But the positive step has to do with your zero response so far. The programme has been institutionalised since August for an indefinite period now, but you are talking for a year. You should see three things - and I close with them - to see if we can work together and support all these people. Firstly, there is one issue with the fact that one year is not enough. At least three years to get in, since you don't want it to be indefinite. In three years we will see the unification of all the programs that each municipality has, under the Social Services Department of the municipalities, the possibility of supplementing those who leave the program. They were three thousand six hundred, now three thousand three hundred fifty. In addition, new ones must be hired and allowed to take advantage of municipalities - such as Attica, which had not exploited the programme and had not exploited it in previous years - now be able to make a programme and join this funding. The step taken is positive, but it is not enough. It's way behind what we had legislated last year. They are very behind what it needs all of the eighty thousand who are involved in this programme, such as the elderly, AME, people helpless. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u146	Mr Kegeroglu, you can understand that you have covered all your speaking time, but I will give you a secondary time, because it makes sense for parliamentary scrutiny to take place. For three minutes, the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. You know that lying has very close legs. It can never be said in the Greek Parliament that the expertise of the PSE, which we did within five months, was rejected when Mr Kegeroglu worked for four years. He had an obligation since 2012 to testify to the notorious ERCC and gave it the last minute in December 2014. That's the first. Secondly, it is nationally detrimental - and I myself rarely use these words - to say in this House that the national strategy for social inclusion has been rejected. What is true is that we have not only had extremely positive comments from the Committee on Recruitment, but that in five months' time we are consistent with our obligations, when others have done three years so that they can finally be presiding to submit this. Within the days we are reintroducing the PSE monitoring mechanism. That's how you did it. When they made you corrections, resubmit things. Leave them smart because people are listening. Is it possible to say that the specialization has been rejected? Is it possible to say such things when you know that, if the Roma mechanism is rejected, for example, this is conditionality for welfare NPAs? Is it possible to say this when we talk about 330 million for projects in which the "Help at Home" and the Creative Employment Centres of the LEADs are located? Is that possible? It is possible, for opposition reasons, to do such damage, we can. What's all this, Mr. Kegeroglu? Who are you kidding? What 20 million have you put for the third pillar on employment? Aren't we a little embarrassed? The 20 million you put it all and everything that didn't come was just for the allowance, just for the first pillar! They signed 20 million, and even had the obligation to write 'until the 20 million' for the programme. That's what we should have brought here to make such spoons that we don't make. We had to say that Mr Kegeroglu put it that the minimum guaranteed programme will be implemented until 20 million has been exhausted. We would have stopped it, Mr President. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of Mr. Deputy Minister is ringing.]] Instead, we put on the extra eight that they need to complete. And because, of course, I'm not done, you'll give me that time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u148	In your dentistry, if you'd like, to have a live dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u149	There are big specs, which should not in fact be played, on the backs of people with a major problem, not only those with a disability, not just poverty structures. Because within the poverty structures, we have other problems that you inherited us. I'll say a few things. First, you are slapping late, in other words at 15:35' you put the question on the day you know that workers have been mobilised for 'Help at home', which you do not know how many people are and make constant mistakes. Because you should know that the programme had three thousand forty-six forty-six at the beginning, and today it has much less. People are gone, because they've found a job or something, and it has fewer. You said 'three hundred and seven hundred and you're not bored' so that we can make a sense here at the audience, which is not there already. On the other hand, the people I've seen, and we set up a committee, we've just been elected the second time, with them. They reject the law that you had made and you wanted to put them in the EBRD. They don't want the workers. In addition to the others you are saying, you are lying in your timely question and I am very sorry at the moment, really. For here you say, not much or much, and I read: "In particular, as with L.4277/2014, the time-consuming operation of the programme from 1-1-2016 has been guaranteed, with guaranteed funding". We are tabling an amendment quickly so that we can get the money and not just the money you say you have guaranteed, but also the tips you have left us from previous years. In 2013, we have 3,000,000 open. We're looking for them, and they haven't been rendered. In 2015 we also have open money. We are looking for them, we are writing them in the 2016 budget, so that we can implement the programme. You are already saying that the conclusion of contracts of indefinite duration should have been completed, as Article 64 says. Where does that say, Mr. Kegeroglu? Shame on you! Not only does Article 64 say so, do you play with the workers and their pain? Article 64 is here and I have it. Bring me the proposal that says they're done indefinitely!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u150	Madam Minister, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u151	I'll keep going, because that's a disgrace at all levels.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u152	You both understand, of course, that you have covered the time. So we either have to stop here or we have to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u153	No, let's keep going, 'cause I've made an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u154	Of course we will continue, but I would ask both of us to conclude. I will give the time to take, that is, three minutes to Mr Kegeroglu and three minutes to the Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, in her agony, Mrs Fotio covers the gaps, omissions and inaction, she is justified in saying what she is saying, but not escaping. First of all, we must say about what she said before, in reply to Mrs Papacostas, about guaranteed social income and the exclusion from the calculation of income income on the income criteria in general terms of the pro-active disability benefits, it is within the ministerial decision I have signed as the State Secretary and what we are asking is that this should apply from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u156	Before you said more, and now you're saying more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u157	Don't have a dialogue, please. Please, Minister. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u158	I've told you before that I respect you. Don't get away. I respect you for many reasons. Hang in there. The 20 million to which I referred - you did correct criticism, but it is for Mrs Antonopoulou - it was from the NRP, do you understand? It was from the N.S.S.A.!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u159	It was from the budget!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u160	That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u161	Another 20 million of the budget for the first pillar, financial support, and another 20 million committed by the NSRP for reintegration. You still know that? I've said fifteen times in here that you're losing the money, taking it elsewhere and telling me that no, they're not in danger. They went away and went away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u162	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u163	That's what I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u164	Now, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u165	In your answer, Mrs. Fotio, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u166	But you don't know that. It's not my fault. You said before that I don't know what I'm saying about the contracts. I accept all of them: the accusations, the fine remarks, I accept all of them. But that ten months have been without funding the structures of a thousand fourteen children with disabilities...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u167	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u168	Of course, you. For while Mr L.4312/2014 was voted, Article 14(3), you amended him, you made Mr L. 4325 and you didn't make the ministerial decision you had to make by June. Understand? Secondly, the project team "Help to Home" is with the December law, which you set up a month ago. Understand? Five, six months inactivity. That's what I'm telling you. Of course - I will say this in public, because in public you have also said so - you have given the former Secretary-General responsibilities to meetings that you had with the operators that he did not inform you properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u169	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u170	I do not care about the cause, but I do care that in the way you handle matters, people who have no responsibility are paying the bride. Thousands of fourteen and fourteen children have their responsibility and pay for your inertia bride? You've told them that by 14.30 hours today you'll answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's forty-four structures. Either answer them positively today or make an appointment - but you do not send the manager - next week to see what you are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u173	Other than others!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u174	“Help at Home”: “To September 1, 2015,” here in the FEK says...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u175	We're done, Mr. Kegeroglou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u176	... "conclude contracts" with the institutions. Entities refer to, not workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u177	The law article says it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u178	Madam Minister, you will answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u179	It's about the bodies! I put it in the Minutes to see the characterization that Mrs. Fotou gave me to stay in history. I'll submit it to the Minutes. "until 1 September," he says! Entities refer to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u180	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu, thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor. And you've been strict for three minutes, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u181	I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u182	You're sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u183	It is written in your topical question and you are falsifying and playing with people's pains, because of course the three thousand two hundred, who are now less than three thousand, do want - since they are appointed and after they meet the constant and constant needs - to make people an undetermined period of time. That's what you wrote to work with. You wrote that Article 64 says that the conclusion of contracts has been completed indefinitely. It's written and it looks like what's going on at the moment, how we're going to hurt people, when you know that Article 103 of the Constitution forbids it. So all the people with whom we set up this committee, all the actors and from 'Help at Home', came to the Ministry and set up these committees in time. And not only that, but what you plan to go to EBRD is not what the workers want. In this sense, therefore, I also have to say in public what I have done on the same day as a communication. And you knew the announcement, and then you swept it off. Firstly, the programme in the form that is currently in force and with the same workers, because if the transition takes place, the workers will not be the same and you know it very well, that is why you ploughed it, as you bolted and the fact that you put the 20 million to the NSRP when you know that while one is targeted, people who take the minimum guaranteed income, you put it in the NSRP and you know very well that the money cannot be given to those selected by Malevisi. I say one of the thirteen municipalities. So we couldn't get him a job in Malevis because you wanted to. The problem of the three pillars is getting him a job. Where to get him a job? In Athens from Malevise? The NRP can't cover it that way, so you knew you didn't cover the third pillar from the NRP. The workers, therefore, came and said at all these gatherings we had: "We, gentlemen, do not want this law that tells us to take us to the EBRD." Because they knew what it would mean by these new conditions, that they could not continue their work. That is why we are extending this programme, not just for a year. We have found the appropriations by 2019. And we've found them in proportion to all the bodies who might give the 55 million so that the programme can be made. At the same time, we are planning for the first time a care network for the elderly, which will be financed by state resources, such as the IKA, such as the Welfare General Secretariat. Hence the 55 million, which especially for the year become 60 million, to cover holes in the past that have not been paid. At the same time, we're planning a new network that you never thought about. A network for the third age and vulnerable groups, which will also have state resources and resources of the ESDP. It's a very different idea from yours, which was how we're going to eat the money of the NRP where we can and how we're going to design only where our customer relationships are. That's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u184	Oh, of course! Alas! That's your idea!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Minister. We move to the seventh under No. 155/16-11-2015 topical question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Piraeus Union Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health on the payment of the newspapers of the medical staff of Piraeus II and Aegean Islands. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. The reason for this is that Mrs. Megalo-Economics has two minutes to develop her timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is a burning issue concerning doctors' on-calls. As we know, doctors do not practice a profession, perform a job. At this difficult time when we are living they are making superhuman efforts to serve and perform their duties, because, apart from our own patients, they also have to treat the refugees and immigrants who go to our hospitals, who have many problems. We all know that. Their problem is about on-call payments. I'll tell you that the problem focuses on the medical staff of the Second Ministry. The previous Minister for Health, Mr Kourublis, had made sure that the necessary money was made available for the payment of newspapers. All DPOs have informed us that compensation has been paid for medical staff on the first quarter of 2015. However, the second RU has not been paid for the first quarter. Only for the first two months, and incorrect payment has been made, with less than the corresponding amounts. As of October 9, 2015, medical staff from the Second Ministry of Health have been informed that the on-call for the first quarter will take place on 27 October. They have also been informed that compensation for the second and third quarters will be paid on 27 October and in any event by 13 November. To date, despite the assurances, neither the payment of the first quarter nor, of course, the second and third quarters has been completed. I can give you the assurances that they would have been paid up to 27-10 and 13-11. In the light of the foregoing, I would ask the Minister: For this period, more than seven months, no compensation has been paid for the newspapers of the first quarter of the medical staff of the Second Ministry. Do you intend to make their immediate payment, while you know that there are too many doctors who cannot cover their living costs, their families, their wages are too small and have great needs for bioportants and cannot cope with them? Secondly, why have the payments of the second and third quarter medical staff not been paid for the second quarter, mainly for the second quarter, as well as for the other OSH? Also, would you intend, Minister, to intervene in the immediate payment of medical staff's subsistence allowances? Because they are approaching Christmas now and the payments are pending and people are in an extremely unpleasant position to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Mr Paul Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Ms. Big Economics, thank you for the timely question, because you give me the opportunity to restore the truth. Unfortunately, it is not my intention to inform you - it is not the case. This year, after many years, it is the first year that we are currently in November and in all the hospitals in the country they have been paid and paid for - it is in people's pockets - the on-calls of the third quarter. If you ask what happened in the past two or three years, there you can see crying and boldness. This year is the first year that's happening. The particulars you have presented have been a little confused. Obviously, you didn't get the right information. The real situation for the Second Ministry of Health is this: First, in hospitals in the Second Health Region, to which Piraeus belongs and all the Aegean, doctors have been paid for in the third quarter. In hospitals of the Second Ministry of Health the remaining staff, taking overtime, nights, exceptional, on-calls of some scientists, such as biochemicals, biologists, etc., have been paid in the second quarter and are going on these days to pay the third quarter. I'll say a word about it, like something else. I'll tell you all the evidence together. In the health centers of the Second Ministry, doctors have been paid up until May and the third quarter is being prepared and paid in the next few days. To the rest of the health centres now, as far as overtime is concerned, unfortunately it is now about to be paid for in the first quarter - it is in the Commissioner - and it will certainly also be paid in the second and third quarters. Here there was a problem, as you understood, regarding health centers, which are too much - from Rhodes to Limnos and the Aegean islands - the management of this second Rhodes. Because you know the health centers were in hospitals and they went to the PPP from the previous government without any preparation of the administrative mechanism. This has led to two and a half RUs from seven to seven having a problem of responding to the administrative mechanism of the central services of health regions to get the data, the warrants and the people to be paid for in health centres. Because in hospitals - and I say this on account of knowledge - the appropriations approved from the budget have been paid back and they are in the hands of the people and the third quarter. In fact, right now, in December, we are about to pay for the first time in many years in October and November for all the hospitals in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much. The rest of you will tell your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u191	Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u192	Minister, according to my briefing, there has been no correct clearance for the first quarter. I know that payment has only been made for the April and May on-calls. Only these on-calls and perhaps after the timely question I had asked. Not all payments have been made for the first quarter. Comparative partial payments have been made, not paid in the first quarter, nor the second and third. Only April and May were won. That's my information. If you can give me any evidence that the second RU has been paid for and paid for in the first and second quarters, give me the evidence. However, according to my information, you only paid back in April and May and only selectively paid a few on-calls and there are still shortcomings. This information, in fact, is yesterday. They were paid later, when I had already submitted the timely question. So I'm not satisfied with your answer. I expect you, at least, to give me an answer as to when they will be paid. May you tell me that by the end of the year the on-calls of the Second Ministry and the other Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be paid off, because these people are doing a superhuman job, all the islands, all the areas affected by refugees, from immigrants who are people who want care and are unpaid. They have rights, they have families, and they have to live. You must give us a certain timetable. Tell us that by 15 December you'll pay them back. They're busy, and they own them. They can't be unpaid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Minister Paulakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u194	Ms. Big Economics, you probably didn't follow me in protology, and I repeat them. I answered and gave a specific timetable. I haven't had time to say anything else, which I'm going to say now. Hospitals of the Second Ministry of Health have been paid up up to the third quarter. The overtime for the doctors of the second U.S. hospitals will also be paid for the months of October - November in December. The remaining staff have been paid for the second quarter and will be paid for the third quarter. In health centers, I repeat, doctors are paid up until May. The third quarter will be paid immediately, which is being prepared, going to the Commissioner. The big problem has been at the overtime of other personnel in health centres. There is the first quarter in the Commissioner, they will soon be prepared in the second and third quarters. What I wanted to say before, but time had passed, is that there is a deficit, which relates to the other staff of the hospitals in the second R.E., for overtime and for the medical staff of the health centers in the second R.E. This is about the fact that we had to increase the daily coverage regime in the Aegean islands and in the large central hospitals, precisely to cope with the refugee current. In this respect, we will respond. We're in touch with the Treasury Department. All appropriations entered in the budget will be reimbursed in full. There is the deficit in these two categories that I have told you, I repeat them, to the staff of the second-flood hospitals - not the doctors, the other personnel - and to the doctors of the second-flood health centers. There is a difference there, a deficit due to the increase in the newspaper coverage, which we are trying to do, and I believe we will cover with the cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, as Mr Kurublis had committed when he had met with them, in May and June, when the great intensity of the refugee current began. That's the reality. It's not what you're describing in your timely question. In fact, we are in contact with both the Ministry of Finance and the EEAS on the issue of the preparation of the budget for the year in order to provide a definitive solution to the problem of invention, which has been a problem that has been arousing hospitals for twenty, twenty-five years. It was an easy way for previous governments to cut money. This has created too many problems especially in provincial hospitals, but also in large hospitals in the centre. We know this very well, and we haven't solved it because you asked the question. We solved it because it is our obligation to solve it. I am the author of the phrase'safe news programs, which allow doctors and patients dignity' as a fighter hospital doctor in Nice in the 1990s, and this commitment that we made at the time and then we put it forward, we will implement it in the next few years, giving a definitive solution to this problem that is agitating the hospitals all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 23 November 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 167/17-11-2015 by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and use of the Centre for Genetic Improvement of Animals Karditsa. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 161/17-11-2015 topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of National Defence, on the statements by Minister of National Defence on the influx of terrorists into Europe via Greece. 3. The question by number 134/13-11-2015 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the restoration of the National Theatre of Rhodes. 4. The question by number 170/17-11-2015 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the abolition of all relevant decisions concerning the return of the childbirth allowance and the granting of it to all women. 5. The 156/17-11-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health regarding the reduction of the number of donors and transplants carried out for 2015 in our country. 6. The 154/16-11-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the Greek Open University and its administration. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 162/17-11-2015 by MP Larissa of the New Democracy Mr. Maximou Charakopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the pensions of the OGA. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the lifting of a limitation of twenty kilometres for the free transfer of students of daily and afternoon PAAL. 3. The 171/17-11-2015 topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the payment of workers to health centres. 4. The question by No. 157/17-11-2015 of Mr. Achaias, Member of the River, Mr. Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Health, about the problems of the Therapeutic - Educational Centre "MERIMNA" in Patras. 5. The Question No 166/17-11-2015 by Independent MP II of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance about the list of Lagard. 6. The Question No 160/17-11-2015 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the problems of the Greek Open University. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 149/16-11-2015, a topical question by MP II Athens of New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of National Defence on the restoration of the remuneration and pensions of military personnel. 8. The 131/13-11-2015 topical question by MP Kozani of New Democracy Mr Georgiou Kasapidis to the Minister of National Defence regarding the national pending of seven thousand nine hundred seventy-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seven-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-s. Continent in the 1940s. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 5 October 2015 and Tuesday 6 October 2015 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u196	The minutes of Monday 5 October 2015 and Tuesday 6 October 2015 were therefore validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-20-S1-commons.u197	With the consent of the House at 13.51 p.m. the sitting on Monday, November 23, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on topical questions.
