ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 5-2-2015, the minutes of its 1st session of Thursday, 5 February 2015 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau as regards the vowing of Members of the VI Period of the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic.]] Before entering the special agenda, we will take the oath of colleagues, Mr. Ioannis Varoufakis and Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, who were declared MPs in the elections on 25 January 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, Ioannis Varoufakis and Eukleidis Tsakalots are invited to come and give the nominated oath. [[Members of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Varoufakis and Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, come to this point and give the following oath:]] "I assure my honor and conscience that I will be faithful to the Fatherland and the democratic city, I will obey the Constitution and the laws, and I will be conscientiously fulfilling my duties."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S1-commons.u2	Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S1-commons.u3	I have the honour to inform the House that a letter from Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to the President of the Greek Parliament on 'Government change' has been sent to the Bureau. I also have the honour to inform the House that a letter from Mrs Stavrou Antonakos, which contains a statement from Article 57(2) of the Constitution, has been sent to the Bureau. The above letters will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION OF BULLETIN The only item on today's special agenda is the election of the President of this House. At today's sitting, provisional Secretaries are the Members who were invited to the sitting yesterday, namely by SYRIZA, Danai Tsika Kostopoulos and Efstathos Giannakisdis and by New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis and Ms. Niki Kerameos. However, I would ask that they remain in their position, because their positions in the Bureau will be taken on the list of colleagues. You have been distributed a list with the name of Mrs Zois Konstantopoulou proposed for the post of President and a white ballot. Parliamentarians Mr Olga Gerovasili from SYRIZA and Mr Emmanuel Konsolas from New Democracy are on the list. The vote is called on Mrs Iro Piti by SYRIZA and Mr Savvas Anastasiades by New Democracy. Mr. Dimitrios Gakis is called as Head of the Tripartite Electoral Committee by SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, the list is drawn up by the Member States. The following is read in alphabetical order of the country's constituencies and the names of its colleagues are given in the order of their election. The listeners of their name come to the voter and cast the ballot. And my colleague, the voter, is giving the name of the voter. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote begins. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S1-commons.u5	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the House that under Rule 7(3) of the Rules of Procedure the President of this House shall be elected by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. If the absolute majority is not reached, the vote shall be repeated. Secret ballots are being proclaimed, and I would ask the voters to count and sort out the ballots and extract the result. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "World Republic's Workshop", eighteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 5th Coropi Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please start counting and sorting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-two students and apprentices and four teachers - attending them from the 7th General School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a secret vote on the election of the President of this House. A total of 298 Members voted. Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou received 235 votes. [[Vibrant and long-standing applause]] 61 white lists and 2 void ballots were also found. In fact, Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou recorded all times for the election of the President of Parliament. The previous record, as you know, was made by the previous President, Mr Meymarakis. The President of the Greek Parliament is therefore elected by Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou, whom I warmly congratulate, and I would ask that she come to the Bureau and take over the President's seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak to you from a heartbeat, with the straightforwardness and with the honesty appropriate to the honour and responsibility you have given me, but also with the honour and responsibility that our fellow citizens have shown to each and every one of us. We are here not because fate wanted it or because fate brought it, but because we have chosen it and because we have been chosen and chosen by the citizens of this country, by the people of our country, who are fighting for dignity, justice, equality, democracy, freedom, for values and goods that have been conquered in blood, with sacrifices, with indelible struggles described in the history of this country, values and goods that are now being challenged or curtailed in the most cynical way. The House of Greeks and Greeks is not only the leading institution of democracy in our country. It is the spirit of popular sovereignty, the institutional abstraction of popular will and the shield of national independence and sovereignty. Our election in Parliament does not place us in a position of power, but puts us at the forefront of responsibility. Because as elected members of the National Representation we no longer exist for ourselves, but we incorporate the living power of parliamentary democracy, which every power stems from the people, there is for the people and they are exercised, according to the Constitution, together with the people. Yesterday, at a historic meeting of the House, religious and political vows were taken for the first time. Content of the oath - with whichever type each chooses - it was faith in the country and democracy, respect for the Constitution and the conscientious exercise of our duties. The contents of this oath means much more than a reassurance. It means the active obligation of each and every one of us, with the example, initiatives, objections and oppositions, with the involvement, with partnership and with the criticism, opposition, opposition and active opposition, to give content to our democratic citizens, to protect the rights and freedoms of every human being who is breathing in this country and who is in our responsibility and to shield the international position of our country, which is an equal partner and historical Member State in international and European organisations and in the European Union. Today's Parliament, the first memorial parliament, the one in which we are all involved, is invited together to write history and to show that democracy and popular sovereignty are still an unrealistic value in Europe and the world and that they are not subject to interests and calculations that are counterbalanced by social prosperity and a pretext. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, who have honoured me with their confidence in such a great responsibility, as well as the President and Parliamentary Group of the Independent Greeks, who, as a government partner, supported this choice. I would like to thank the outgoing President of this House who, in an institutional way, took an initiative for a substantial process of delivery and information, which started from last week and will continue. I also want to thank the outgoing Vice-President, who successfully and responsibly completed yesterday's historic meeting and today's meeting. I would like to thank the groups and the Members who voted in favour but also those who participated in the election process and voted differently. Because it is important, above all, to participate, which is a guarantee of democratic functioning. The universal participation recorded in these first celebrities must be our joint commitment to form the new model of a living Parliament, a House of Lives and Responsibility, which consults, legislates, controls and takes precedence over the appreciation and respect of society, with MPs active and society in the parliamentary process, not just applauding governmental or opposition positions, with committees of effective legislative work, open to society and improving legislation, encouraging and expanding popular and social participation, by strengthening and consolidating the principle of consultation and the call and hearing of social actors, but also through new procedures and possibilities for legislative initiative and parliamentary control by society, which will propose changes to the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. In this House, parliamentary control, which is not only a tool for opposition control, must be effective, but it is also a tool for social control of government work. I am sure the Prime Minister will set an example and will, of course, follow the ministers of the government, who must come and answer the questions. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Answer the questions of all the MPs, each and every one of whom the Nation represents. In this House, we must not repeat the phenomena of the degeneration of the legislative function, such as the abuse of the urgency procedure and the amendments. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It is my commitment from the position of the President of the Parliament that there will be no delaying amendments, neither unnecessarily on the subject of the legislative provisions, nor, of course, the bills of hundreds of thousands of pages without structure or acts of legislation which do not fulfil the constitutional requirements. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It is my commitment that this House will apply the principles and rules of good legislature, as provided for both internally and over-legislatively. At the same time, I firmly believe that, first of all, the members of the Government and the parliamentary groups who support it will be welcome and supportive of the struggles we have all given in the previous parliamentary term against such practices, but also against photographic amendments that have raided parliamentary history. It is a commitment to protecting the dignity and honor of workers in Parliament against practices of undividedness and injustice, but also against regular demonisation of workers for the activation of social automation. The employees of this House are not the rivalries of any power and must work in an environment that guarantees them respect, recognition of their work, with merit, transparency and with rules that are known and respected by all. But respect is due in the performance of their duties and all the Members who must be facilitated in their work, first of all, with decent working and working conditions within the House. I'm going to give you an experiential example, that of the Preliminary Committee for the Lagard list of this top case. For six months, the SYRIZA Members - and not only - participated in this Commission from morning to night, without any special space for us to meet, nor any room to keep the thousands of documents in the process. Our associates waited hours on the stairs outside the meeting room. In the same way, Members are invited to respond to their enormous responsibility in carrying out their duties as legislative work and parliamentary control. At the same time, very large parts of Parliament's building are occupied for purposes that are not linked to parliamentary work. I want to be clear here. Priority in this parliamentary term will be to ensure that all Members of Parliament can study the bills, prepare appropriately and participate in the parliamentary process on an equal footing. This will also be a criterion for the distribution of spaces within Parliament and for the provision of procedures guaranteeing democratic legitimacy in the parliamentary function. I come to the issues of transparency and equality. The House cannot act as a scandal washing machine and as a cemetery of criminal proceedings. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The retreat and investigation of cases, which have been transferred to Parliament from justice, have been sprinkling for months or years in drawers, without even being examined, is a fundamental and fundamental democratic task, but also a precondition for social cohesion. I am addressing the feeling of the law of all Members of Parliament as representatives of the citizens, and I call on you to join in bringing an end to this reproaching situation of privileged treatment which has seriously affected Parliament's prestige. Both through the existing and competent committees of Parliament, as well as by the establishment of the necessary new bodies, with a change in the Rules of Procedure, it is essential that the House guarantee the legitimacy, transparency and investigation of all the pending cases, whatever the persons controlled, be they political, parliamentary and governmental, whether they are representatives of economic interests and corporations, such as those of the 'SIEMENS' and the armaments. Let us not forget that such cases also trigger international obligations by other states, according to the International Institutional Framework against Corruption, and that our country has not exhausted its legal arsenal for justice and truth and for the recovery of crime products. The representatives of other governments are also aware of these international obligations, so that yesterday's statement by the German Minister for Finance is completely unfounded and unfounded, that each country is simply looking at the home. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Our country and our people have been victims of large-scale corruption, which is not limited to national borders and not just to our homes. It is also an obligation for the European states to join in to clean up our collective European house. At the level of transparency the message of global, objective, qualitative and unmanageable information must be emitted crystallised from Parliament's channel. At the same time, it is vital that citizens have access to information on the parliamentary work, which is rich and is unfair to practices that put policy at first level and in last politics. On the Parliament's side, there will be systemicization of official information and a widening of credentials, and I hope that this will also mark a new page in parliamentary information. I come to the most important parliamentary initiative in the past period, which I think all the Members who have participated in the previous period can be proud of. The establishment of the Intergroup Committee of the Parliament on the claim of German allowances. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] At the initiative of Manolis Glezou and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, but with the unanimous agreement of all the parliamentary groups, this committee, which was set up exemplarily under the chairmanship of Mr Javara, was set up, but did not complete its work due to the elections being held. In the parliamentary term which we have just opened, the Intergroup on German Compensation will be set up rapidly and upgraded to carry out the national task of effectively claiming the moral, historical and economic debt of this country to our home country, to the victims of the Nazi atrocities for the restoration of disasters, to return and repay the mortgage, to compensate the victims and to recover the stolen archaeological treasures. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] As President of Parliament, I will personally take all the necessary initiatives so that this debt that survives for more than seventy years will be repaid. And it will be a pleasure and honour to join in this historic and noble goal all the wings of the House. Such initiatives will be taken for the active and substantial contribution of the Greek Parliament to the promotion of Greek claims to remove most of the debt and to provide for growth and guarantees clauses, to curb the humanitarian crisis and to relieve our people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Parliamentary diplomacy is not customary or public relations. It is a valuable instrument, which must be activated both at the President of the Parliament and at the level of committees of international relations, and also at the level of parliamentary committees of friendship involving all the Members of Parliament, so that the Greek affair, the demand for a fair and beneficial solution for our people, with the deletion of debt and moratorium of repayments, is the subject of a live interparliamentary campaign based on the vigilance of the other parliaments and parliamentary assemblies and the European peoples who are already in solidarity with our people. Similarly, the House must be reconnected with culture, education and the new generation. In this direction, the Foundation will be activated and exploited. Speaking of the new generation, I feel obliged to remind you that some 100 000 young people and eighteen young people did not vote in elections while they had the right to vote. This is not allowed to happen again. The Members who participate in this House also represent these citizens, and we must guarantee that again the newest voters will never be excluded from the democratic process. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber others are now starting the most beautiful journey and the greatest mission, and others have already written small or longer life experiences that will accompany us. It is up to each one of us to write the most brilliant pages of modern parliamentary history at this time when society is touching its hopes on us, but it is also being activated and claimed. People write the story when they hope, optimize, question, fight, claim. The history is also written by political leaders and representatives of the peoples, by parliaments when they stand up to their responsibility and rise up as a wall for protecting society. The democratic reflexes of our people are active and are increasingly expressed, with a crystal reference to the historical struggles of our people, national resistance, the left, the student movement, the anti-dictatorial struggle, the social movements. More and more realize that they do not want to live their lives squirrels nor leave their children a new economic slave to be beaten. People have been smiling again in the last few days. They recover their stubbornness, their confidence, their dignity. They are condemning to be part of the history and not of its spectators and gathering in the squares, demonstrating human principles and values, as they did last night, thousands of citizens in Athens, but also in other European capitals. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The whole of Europe, the whole world is looking at Greece with hope, because they know that the recognition of the rights and relief of the Greek people will be a victory for the people in the face of the economic aberrations and the new tyranny of the banks, the markets and the new oligarchies designed to replace democracy. The House of Greeks and Greeks in the face of the historical challenges, but let the trials have as guide the nomadic article of the Constitution, Article 120 which says today the same thing as Article 114, the "one - four" of the democratic struggles: "Respect for the Constitution and the laws agreed with it and devotion to home and democracy are a fundamental obligation for all Greeks. Compliance with the Constitution depends on the patriotism of the Greeks who are entitled and are obliged to resist by any means against anyone who attempts to destroy it by force." In this constitutional, democratic patriotism that Greek society historically bears responsibility for and with which the Greek Parliament is institutionally imprisoned, it must know that anyone who tries to blackmail our people and circumvent democracy in our country. Thank you. [[Upright SYRIZA and ANEL MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] Before the end of the sitting I have one comment to make: the position of the Bureau is not left-handed - I did not say left-handed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S1-commons.u8	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today at 18:30 the House will meet again in order to hold the election of the Vice-Presidents, the Quaestors and the Secretaries of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-06-S1-commons.u9	The sitting is closed for Friday, February 6, 2015 at 18.30', on the subject of the House's work: the election of Vice Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries of the House, according to the special agenda to be distributed.
