ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-11-2015 delegation, the minutes of the sittings of Monday 5 October 2015 and Tuesday 6 October 2015 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our second question under number 161/17-11-2015, first-round question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, to the Minister of National Defence, on the statements by the Minister of National Defence on the influx of terrorists into Europe through Greece. The current question will be answered by the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panos Kammenos. Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u2	Excuse me, Mr. President. You need to read the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u3	The Rules of Procedure have been amended. You develop it for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u4	It is customary to read the question from the Bureau so that the Member who is asking for the questionnaire may be able to develop. Now I have to develop the essence of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u5	That is now the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u6	Do you understand what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u7	Develop the question for two minutes and you will then have the reason for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u8	Good. Mr President, the very critical and enthusiastic issue of the terrorist actions that we have experienced and the dramatic 13 November, day on Friday - after the terrorist strike in France and before that - and, more generally, the question of terrorism has dealt with Europe, as is natural. We grieve victims. We are all in solidarity with France. But there is also a question for our country. I hear the Prime Minister and all his ministers say that they do not connect the refugee with the question of terrorism. The question, however, is this: did the Minister of National Defence have information in March 2015, in which case, in an unsuspecting time, there was a question of terrorist and terrorist attacks, essentially linking the context of our country's need for fiscal adjustment with the report that there was a bullying against Greece? You remember then that we had the issues of the agreement, the government was supposed to negotiate and so on. Then we have all listened astonished and deeply concerned to the Minister of National Defence to link the need to continue the harsh fiscal policy and the refugee policy. We heard threats being launched. I have here specific phrases and statements by Mr Kammenos, not as Panos Kammenos, but as Minister of National Defence, in March 2015, say that if they go to strike Greece tomorrow morning - it means financially - our partners and before the agreement is closed, immigrants take their papers, go to Berlin and in this case it will be Europe's responsibility that has decided to hit Greece, and that is the policy that the current government is doing. Then we saw a bar of statements in this direction. And the question is this to the Minister of National Defence: Can the Minister of National Defence of Greece provide information on a possible influx of ISIS radical elements in Europe through our country? Did he use this information to threaten our partners? What action then to deal with a possible influx of terrorists? And, secondly, we have recently seen it speak of landing and of not being able to manage this situation, and of not being able to manage our borders unless further measures are taken by Europe. Has the additional measures been taken throughout the period of departure? Has the European Union asked for assistance? And I would like to say that the European Union, in addition, Mr President, is giving us more stringent control so that we can cope with the wave of refugees arriving in Greece, but also protect Greece and Europe from Islamic terrorists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u10	It would be useful for my colleague to read the statements and not to reproduce criticisms from various newspapers, which, in my statements and in Mr Kotzias, have tried to pass on the views of the Turkish newspapers, such as those who produced them. But it's okay. I will explain to Mrs Papakostas and to my fellow Members what happened. First of all, the statement I made was at the time when Greece was driving outside the European Union. The solution proposed by Mr Symble was that Greece should leave the European Union and get a EUR 40 billion humanitarian aid, so that this solution can turn the country into a storeroom of three million people. So you realise that three million immigrants in Greece could not have been guarded so that they could not leave the next day and reach the centre of Europe. Greece would therefore be a stable and strong portal for Europe, this portal that Europe must protect as its borders and not just as Greece's borders. The growth of migratory flows from the regions of North Africa and the Middle East to South Europe is also a humanitarian issue, which concerns more refugees, but is also a huge asymmetric threat to the national defence and security of European states. That is why, in the NATO and European Union Councils, when various scenarios were being prepared for the north of Europe in relation to a possible missile attack by Russia in Poland and so on, we pointed out that the real problem is here. It is here because North Africa and the Middle East have become ignorant, because there is no stable country in North Africa except Egypt. And in the Middle East, jihadists and Islamists with the beginning of kidnapping the two Orthodox hierarchs have turned the entire Middle East into a field that threatens, kills, murders, rapes, controls the flow of illegal oil, controls drugs coming from Afghanistan, controls illicit arms trafficking. It is normal, therefore, within the victims of Islamist fascism in Syria, which are the same Syrian citizens who come to escape as refugees and cross Greece as a transit country to reach and find a better future in Europe, to have penetrated extremist elements. There is no need for any particular information. He understands that these extremes, as they have been threatening themselves with videos that have been running for three years, wanted to cause a problem in Europe. So what we called for in both the form of the request to the European Union and NATO is to strengthen the possibilities of Greek services with machinery. They sent about thirty machines after this call to the European Union in order to make the ringing. In fact, the measures taken by Greece are measures which they have achieved. Whoever went through here has been recorded. But I'll tell you, Mrs. Papacosta, by closing, and I'll answer my dentistry, that the Department of National Defence has nothing to do with it. Border control is held by the Port Body, the Greek Coast Guard and the Greek Police. The Ministry of National Defence and the Navy helped where it will be needed, without being the first contact of the country's border-breaker - and this by decision of Kostas Karamanlis. I am sorry that a New Democracy MEP has been coming to question the policy that Costas Karamanlis has anticipated since 2007, calling for the creation of a European Coast Guard and was dismantling the Navy. I understand, however, that now cooperation with PASOK is such that you go to the words of George Papandreou, who then wanted to involve the Hellenic Navy in the operations of the Port Body. Finally, I would like to say that in defence matters it would be better to have a cooperation. Instead of being in opposition - you have so many things to make opposition - it would be useful for the defence to have a co-operation between all parties and to arrive at times when the defence budget is voted on by all parties. I would like to assure you that on my side and on the part of Dimitris Vitsa, we are prepared on defence issues to have a full consensus with the whole House of Greeks. But we will not accept the defence in cases that are irrelevant to its work. And immigration is an irrelevant issue. We help where we can, MOMA builds the hot spots where it can be on the islands. We're sending food when there's no other means to give the refugees. But the Armed Forces have no competence in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and two educational sessions from the 1st General School of Sparta. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister of Defence, I have to tell you this because you have invoked the New Republic of Constantine Karamanlis, to which I still belong and honor it, working for its principles and values. I would not ask such a timely question. However, since you mentioned earlier - and rightly so - that the refugee issue does not in itself concern the issues of the Ministry of National Defence, I would like to say that you were the Minister who made the statements on this issue. So, would you like me to refer specifically to that? Because I don't want to blame you. I'm accurate and fair. On 8 March 2015, speaking at the National Council of your Party, the Independent Greeks, you said mot a mot - in other words - "If they go to hit Greece, they should know that tomorrow morning we suspend the Dublin II Treaty, they take their cards and their identity and go to Berlin. This is the policy pursued by the current government." I would remind you, Mr President, that the ongoing negotiations with the partners were under way at the time. A few days earlier at the informal Foreign Council in Riga, Latvia - you mentioned, therefore, Mr Minister, I did not intend to say this - in his statements to journalists, please, Mr Kotzias, the responsible minister, said there would be millions of immigrants and thousands of jihadists who would come to Europe if Greece collapsed. Also, Minister, because you have relied on and said, "But we are helping you", what you were doing on November 14, 2015, that is, on the day immediately following the terrorist attack in the heart of France, Paris, from ISIS, to make a statement to journalists after the meeting and say: "The incomings are not a number of such checks that can be carried out with the means available. We're talking about landing. Is Greece to be shielded by all means to make identification?"? Neither the Minister for the Interior spoke nor the Minister for Civil Protection nor the Minister for Foreign Affairs. You said that, even though you are not competent, as you say. Then why did you make those statements? A question is automatically raised, but at the same time a concern. The mission of the Armed Forces is to protect the air, land and sea borders of the country. These statements, if you are not aware - and you can raise it now, you are being given the opportunity here - they imply, Minister of National Defence, that Greece, Greece is not in a position to protect its borders and hence Europe's borders. And I ask, as a member of the party of New Democracy, founded by Constantine Karamanlis and cared about the integrity of the country: Thorakisis, Minister of State, from whom? Is there a fear of someone attacking us? Did you inform the political leaders as you were due? Have you informed the Greek Parliament or are you making a secret foreign policy with information, which you receive, without informing the legislature, and then going out and making these statements, which create problems, as you can see? That is, therefore, what concerns me. I'm glad you said these issues were for synergy and cooperation. I would ask, however, that there be synergy and cooperation before you make these statements, because, as you can see, these statements create issues and open up very big issues and expose the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u13	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u14	I am sorry you did not understand, but I would remind you that in 2007-2009, the current Members of the New Democracy with whom you coexist were Mr Vorides and Mr Georgiadis, who, together with Mr Ploiris, asked for the intervention of the Armed Forces to deal with immigration. I ask you: Who are you all with? With his Karamanlis back then or with your current partners and contestants of the leadership of the New Democracy? Do you want to have the Navy sink the two-year-olds boats in and pregnant women? If that's what you want, tell us. This is an engagement of the Armed Forces. Guarding our borders from a hostile threat can be done. Having Greek officers and soldiers sinking two-year-olds is not the responsibility of the Armed Forces and the Greek Armed Forces, Greek officers could not do that, not those who serve in the staff, who are in the ravines of Greece. To clear things up, the country's Armed Forces if they need a threat will ensure the security of the country. The fact that this is a matter of landing must be understood. We had three times the population of Mytilini in immigrants and refugees, of course, by 80%, who have spent the last two summer months. Aren't we gonna ask for help? So, do you think that Mr Avramopoulos, coming from New Democracy and being a Commissioner today, should not send this money to our home country? Should not hot spots be strengthened? Shouldn't staff be strengthened?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u15	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u16	Do you realize that there are porters who work eighteen hours a day and to save lives jump into the sea, in the icy Aegean? The Armed Forces are ready to defend both land and water and air borders at all times, but they will not murder babies in the middle of the Aegean Sea. Let's get things straight. Secondly, there are a number of things about the involvement of the Armed Forces in internal security issues. The Constitution of Greece is clear. Article 48 of the Constitution enables Mr. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Only then. Because we see the phenomena of soldiers in Brussels or Paris. In Greece, the Constitution forbids the Armed Forces from being involved in the country's internal security, unless the country is declared to be a state of siege, where then the Armed Forces take over to coordinate the Police and the Port. I hope and I'm sure we'll never get to this situation. So let the Armed Forces do their job as they should. I assure you that the Armed Forces are powerful in moral, in means, and the Armed Forces of the country when they have to defend the territorial integrity of the country and national sovereignty will do so, depending on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u17	We continue with the seventh question under number 149/16-11-2015, the second question of the Athens Parliament, Mr. Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the restoration of the remuneration and pensions of the Armed Forces officials. Mrs Papacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say to the Minister of National Defence, understanding that this debate also shields the safety of our so-called people, in relation to the previous issue and what I will be developing - which concerns the Armed Forces, and in particular the part of the restoration of the remuneration and pensions of the military officials, so that they live in dignity after tens of years of active service to their homeland, guarding borders and being critical of this place - that when one is a political leader he should be very careful in his statements. Because Mr Kammens' statements, as Minister of Defence, have brought me to the position of the responsible Member to ask, because I have been worried, and his statements, which I shall read now, are those which have also given me deep concern about the progress made in the restoration of the remuneration and pensions of the military officials, despite the fact that in the Minutes it will be registered that the Minister has not answered my questions in the previous question and has made a spiral, unjustified and in my opinion, in relation to the sensitivity that we all have toward children and women refugees coming to this hospitable country. Stay away from us. However, the answer was not given by the Minister. So my question is as follows. The Minister of National Defence, without asking, Mr President, in an official interview on Tuesday 15 September 2015 at kranos, among other issues of his competence, he was asked about the question of the restoration of the remuneration and pensions of the Armed Forces officials. The Minister's answer was that it will certainly be achieved and will certainly implement the decision of the Council of State. So he asks the Minister. You will testify and when, Minister of National Defence, the bill to correct the provisions of the law. 4307/2014, to implement the decision of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State to restore the remuneration? Tell us the timeline for the Greek Parliament to know. Secondly, according to the Ministry of Finance - and I have here his mention - the adjustment of the remuneration and pensions of the military personnel will take place - heed the word, it is critical, a key - since the prevailing financial conditions allow it. Please tell me, please, on the basis of what information and with what guarantees do you continue to assure, as the Minister responsible for National Defence, of applying the decision of the Council of State? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u20	First of all, let me say that I have answered this question. It's six questions and nine reports. They are posted in the House, at the Ministry of National Defence, and there are several interviews. I thank you, however, for asking me why you are giving me the opportunity to express the question of how they appear here today in the House on the wage and pension issues of the active and retired members of the Armed Forces, those who have impoverished these officials, and indeed - as demonstrated by the decision of the Council of State - in a completely illegal manner. The Samara - Venizelos Government and the Papandreou Government - which you supported - reduced by 60% the salaries and pensions of the Armed Forces officials. And you come here and ask! So I answer you. Contrary to the practices you have followed with your government partner, PASOK, the present government and I personally since the first time I took up my duties, I have said that I fully understand the concerns of the officials of the Armed Forces and that these are worthy of admiration in spite of the reduction in their standard of living and offer the highest standards at home. Once again, I apologise, on the one hand, for the economic attack by your governments and, on the other, for the failure to comply with the previous government in the implementation of judicial decisions in order to restore injustice. In return, therefore, these first concern was the restoration of injustices, and that is why the first order I gave was for the immediate administration of the days planned outside the seat of the Prefecture of Evros and the islands of the Aegean in application of the a.d. EC 121993, point 1.2.78. Bull. EC 12-1993, point 1.2.78. Bull. And despite all the questions you asked, all the money is normally given to the executives of the Armed Forces who serve in the Aegean and Evros. As far as pensions are concerned, I believe that the definition and regulation of the issues of wage and pension content is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the provisions of Article 73 of the Constitution. Nevertheless, by my command, it was established with the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence, namely the DGOSY, a committee involving representatives and other co-legislative ministers, which was positively expressed in the full implementation of the JCC's decisions on the USO's wage bill for the Armed Forces and the Security Councils. Then, with care of GGOSY, the draft law and the joint ministerial decision you are waiting for was sent to the Treasury. I'm sending you a photocopy. I will only ask, because it is classified, that you take them to look at them - those colleagues who want - and return them so that they don't enter Parliament's archives. He's here at your disposal. In fact, I can assure you that for the money of the Ministry of National Defence they have also found the codes from the equipment systems, which we have reduced for the amount we have to make up for by the end of 2015. This money is committed to the Treasury from the code we released from the equipment. So the Ministry of National Defence is ready - and the money is secured - to give it away. Where's this thing stopped? It has stopped at the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which does not have - as the Ministry of Finance says - the funds and the Ministry of Trade Shipping for the representatives of the Port Body. However, every year we pass, every month, every time the funds are spent to implement the Council of State decision will be entered in the code to be attributed to the first signature of the Minister of Finance. My signature's on the CIA. The law is ready, and the money is secure, and the money's in. The joint ministerial decision and draft law are here at your disposal. I hope you support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u21	Mrs Papacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you know very well that at least the issues of national defence - I have been elected since 2000 - I know them and I know even better about finances. I would therefore like to say that if what you said to us now, then we would not have had the great gathering of the Armed Forces officials in Klathmonos Square the day before yesterday. They were the people you admire, who served and are still serving with their attitude and their contribution to their homeland, in their decency and in the dignified way that they receive over time the policies of the Ministry of National Defence. And here I would like to point out that it is not just you who are elected government today. The previous government, which I served, was elected. And I must tell you that some of you who were then telling us that we were negotiating 'four', that we were German germans, that we were mercanisers, today you must apologise and then enter the process of understanding and debate on the big and critical problems of the country, in a crisis of values, in a crisis that has been welcomed by the whole of Europe and in which populism is abundant, Mr President. These to the first level of knowledge and compliance. Secondly, because you said that economics are well known, I will speak to you with documents, Minister of National Defence, and not with statements or wishes. Allow me. I shall therefore speak to you with documents of your own, but also with the Ministry of Finance. The pious statements "I put my signature, but the issue will stick to the Ministry of Finance" constitute the end of populism. I'm so sorry about that. Why? Because it's like saying that "I'm the good guy in the case. I signed it, when you know, in a reply to my fellow Members, the Ministry of Finance in April 2015, in their respective question, that the Ministry of Finance pointed out - and I quote - that 'the remuneration adjustment is a matter for which the current financial situation is determined'. I ask you: can you assure us today that you are committed to this Chamber, in order to register in the Minutes, to take it from the military associations and federations, that the budgetary conditions today are such that your draft law may have the luck of being approved by the Ministry of Finance in order to restore what the decision of the Council of State says? You're gonna tell us a yes or a no. Secondly, Minister of National Defence, do you know that the budget submitted by Mr Tsakalotos yesterday has a reduction in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence? I was expecting you to go to the bars, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u23	Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u24	Go out and defend the fact that your ministry's budget is down this year, it has a reduced budget. I'm telling you the number: 3,229 billion was your budget in 2015 and 3,180 and something this year. A kindergarten student if we ask whether this is an addition or a deduction he will tell you that this is a deduction. So do you speak with your budget, contrary to and in writing with the Greek Parliament of the Ministry of Finance in April 2015, with a document from the Department of Income Policy Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, which tells you that a further increase in the remuneration and pensions of military officials and security bodies would seriously jeopardise the country's budget planning, both for the achievement of the 2014 and 2015 budget targets, as approved by Law 4263/2014 for the next years 2016-2018? Are you kidding us, Minister? Do you pass the MPs of the Officership as naive? Are you relying on our good will and good faith? To count on it, you must also have it, and you must be honest with us, stand up to the circumstances, and tell me, with this data, when and where to restore what the decision of the Council of State defines. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u25	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u26	I imagined that you are not only doing well in the internal party procedures and in the preparation of your President's election. I never thought you didn't even read the country's budget. If you read the budget, the Ministry of National Defence has not suffered any reduction, it has even increased 18.7%. Why? "In the four," said Mr. Samaras to Mr. Nicholopoulos when he was his Minister. We at the Department of National Defence have not agreed to negotiate with anyone from the Troika, the Quartet. Officer, on my own order, he's never been and he's never going to talk to anyone else. The only thing we're talking about is the Treasury. I don't go to Hilton at noon. So listen, you read the budget well and come and say a great apologies to the Greek people, because it is not only enough to make mistakes in the internal market, but you also make mistakes in the Greek Parliament. The budget of the Ministry of Defence is increased. Secondly, we have already begun the process of implementing a new fair special wage for the personnel of the Armed Forces, which you have not done. Third, did you talk about the dismissal associations? Did you talk about the Retired Unions? Do you remember that you didn't even take them to the Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u27	What Ministry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u28	The Defence Ministers did not accept them, and the retired were making announcements that "he won't even speak to us". And because you say you know the finances, tell colleagues and the Greek people because you know the economics well: because for eight years he was your husband and brother at the DUI of the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u29	And? It recommends that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u30	At that time, then, did the Minister never accept any of the retired associations, did you cut pensions by 60%, illegally, as the Council of State says, did you cut wages and pensions and rights, did you get the benefits of the islands and of Evros, cut off what the Greek officers, officers - for their moves - of the Armed Forces and come here to tell us that we are not applying the decision of the Council of State? We're applying it, Mrs. Papakosta. We apply what the Supreme Court says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u31	I'll applaud you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u32	We've secure the money. This money is committed in the code by the equipment. And it is not those days where the warranties were lost by the Directorate-General for Equipment. Things have changed at the Department of National Defence. Nineteen cases are in the D.A., because some then, while they toweled the officers, when the armaments came, they also received the warranty letters from inside. Leave the retired. I gave the energetics permission to leave from 12 noon to participate in the demonstration without a uniform, of course. And they did well. Because that's what helps us. But we are negotiating to stand, and at least the Ministry of National Defence is not going to get in, which will have access to confidential information. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u33	At this point, we should thank the Minister of National Defence and say that the eighth Question No 131/13-11-2015 topical question by MP Kozani of the New Democracy Mr. Georgiou Kasapidis on the national outstandingness of the 7976 "vocals" in the North Epirus during the period 1940, due to the blockade of the MP, will remain unanswered and deleted. We move to the fourth question under number 170/17-11-2015 for the first time by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syngakia to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the abolition of all relevant decisions concerning the return of the child benefit and its grant to all women. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as the President mentioned earlier, we are discussing the issue of the abolition of the childbirth allowance. You know, in today's conditions of real pillaging of allowances, incomes and decades of workers, due to the political and previous governments of the New Democracy - PASOK, your own co-government, policies that you are implementing in the context of your Euro-Union logic, are added to this pillaging and the abolition of childbirth benefits. I will recall what was the argument of the previous New Democracy and PASOK in 2012 when it was abolishing it. Saving it - it says - resources. They then wanted to save EUR 15 million from the childbirth allowance. Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Salmas. The childbirth allowance has always been a minimum payment, so that women and especially the woman of the people's families can have problems with childbirth or other problems. I would remind you that, until July 2012, all women born in a public or private maternity service were entitled to and received a childbirth allowance of EUR 900 for a pregnancy, EUR 1,200 for twins and EUR 1,600 for triple pregnancy, except for the amounts the insurance fund paid to the hospital for the costs involved. With the creation of the EEA, the allowance was abolished for women born in a public maternity hospital and on the way came the abolition of those born in a private maternity hospital. In other words, today or rather then - since then - only women who have been born outside the hospital, i.e. at home, were entitled to it. They are obvious, Mr Ministers, the dangers of such a development. It is known that the home cannot deal with any complications or other possible health risks of the child and mother. I would remind you that in 2013 and 2014 on Mr Kegeroglu's state of affairs a decision was made to ask for the money back and gradually arrive at the mothers' notes with the threat of confiscation. Under the pressure of the People's Movement - the Communist Party of Greece had reacted as well as the Pan-Herzegovina Front and the Federation of Women of Greece - this measure was suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Synhonaki, put the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u36	Now you come and you get rid of it. That's the decision you're taking. In other words, you are essentially asking for the benefit to be reimbursed as an unpaid payment, but also for additional fees with surcharges and interest. And there are hundreds of cases in all Greece. Only in the constituency from which I come is a hundred and thirty women. Therefore, Minister, we are asking you whether the Government intends to abolish this anti-grassroot, the irrevocable measure to abolish it and abolish all the relevant decisions of the Ministry of Health, the Agency, the IKA concerning the payment of the childbirth allowance and to cancel all financial claims from the women who have taken it and now ask them back. And secondly, the childbirth allowance to be granted to all women who have not received it since 2012 and to be established from now on, so that all women - workers, self-employed, rural women, unemployed or uninsured - regardless of where they will give birth, as well as that all preventive examinations are free of charge for all women, for pregnant women all prenatals and all pregnancy and childbirth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Synatiakis, you'll get the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. To be all this free of charge through a public free health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u40	They're old-fashioned devices. It is the 2011 EEA Benefits Regulation, which provided for this benefit. It was determined after the amendment that followed by this regulation that this amount should be paid only to those mothers who give birth to their homes. That's a fact. They are provisions of 2011 and 2012, as you mentioned them. And, of course, this is an allocation made following a written request from the President of the EEAS, which was submitted in 2013. We are therefore talking about events that have taken precedence and charges, as you know, have forced force. They have an application as administrative acts and they have been completed in an earlier period. They are indeed demanding this money from mothers. Let me clarify something: First of all, this allowance is actually medical expense. It was given to those families who had recourse to maternity and private clinics, which were not symbolized by the EEAY. At the moment, there is the coverage in committed hospitals and clinics with the EEA, and I think this is not something we should deny, because it is right to provide this service with our wonderful public hospitals, which you know welcome mothers for complicated childbirth when it happens. In public maternity hospitals flee from private clinics. Don't deceive our public institutions. It is very important that they provide health. It is right, however, because there is also a club, very important, which claims that birth at home is more important and appropriate, some who choose that birth should take place at home to cover this cost. And this expenditure covers it with proof of the midwife in charge of the birth procedures. This amount shall be covered by proof of payment of expenditure. I do not think that this is something that is negative and we need to change it. Clinics and private ones shall be recorded in the relevant decision in force in the EEA Regulation. I do not think there is a lack of care for those who want to resort to such private clinics. Of course, I will consider the question of the burden on mothers who have to pay the difference with interest and surcharges. That's something we'll see. I shall also ask the Commander of the IKA and the President of the EEAC - because it is his responsibility - to consider the question of the discharge, to the extent that he can legally do so, of the increases imposed on account of the fact that these amounts have been unduly paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u42	The question, Minister, is whether you will abolish the provisions of 2011 and 2012, which you said before. If that is not the case, let me say that you are aligning yourself with the same arguments of the previous governments, which said that resources need to be saved. You didn't say it here. I say this is an unfair measure. And this was seen by the fact that you cannot essentially argue and convince of the necessity. Careful, you invoked a club, which is in favor of it, the woman to babysit at home. Do you remember what happened before? The woman was giving birth to the field. And that's what they thought of as a pig. If possible, in 2015 with all the risks involved in giving birth to a child at home, telling us these things and invoking a club. Who is this Association? Well, we should know him. Because here, science says completely different things. Unless you reject science. So you are objectively adopting the arguments put forward by the previous governments on the saving of resources. Here, be careful, it is not only the childbirth allowance, but it is a general state of cutbacks: from the natural treatments, from the costs of transporting the kidneys, to vision glasses, to the tests on doctors and medicines and cuts related to the prevention and protection of the female organism, to motherhood, to prenatal control, to the prenatal and childbirth that we are talking about now. I would remind you that for the pre-natal examinations, all the ministerial decisions that have been made so far for uninsured people, except that the majority of them are women, not including diagnostic tests, prenatal testing and preventive medicine. Also, prenatal control, even for insured persons, costs 150 euros in a public hospital. And not to go through other cases, for example, where a girl goes to work in a private business and asks her in writing to sign that she won't give birth so she can get her to work. We are now talking about medieval situations. I do not want to expand or escape this, but the essence, Mr Minister, is this: in working jungle conditions, absolutely loyal and committed government in the European Union and in the quartet, and in the need to find and save resources and money, to give them, adopt the measure of the previous government and come and implement it. I say to you that on 5 October 2015, we have hundreds of individual alerts on your Government IKA who say that if within ten days the beneficiary or the beneficiary fails to fulfil its obligation, there will be forced seizures, auctions and confiscation on the hands of third parties. Therefore, you must immediately move on to abolish the previous law and, on the one hand, do not get this allowance behind those already taken and on the other hand generalize it, take other women, extend it. If you do not do that, fate - I repeat - you fall into the logic of the previous government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u43	Before I give the floor to the Deputy Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-nine students and students and two teachers from the 1st General School of Sparta. The House welcomes them. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u44	Mr Synthraki, I will of course not point out where each parent will choose to happen to childbirth, such a happy event, but for which I think, and I think you also agree, that the National Health System has an appropriate infrastructure to provide such services, and that is what I really said before, that many private clinics with great names, when something complicated happens, go to the public homes. Look at it and you'll see that's the way it is. We want to strengthen public health and the care offered and all health care provided by the National Health System. It is for us, therefore, that those measures which the Government is launching to strengthen the Primary and Secondary Care will, of course, give more health support, which must obviously include all care for the new family, for the new mother and, above all, for the issues that you have mentioned. What is happening is, in addition to public maternity hospitals, to provide this service from private clinics, which are enclosed. It's not too few. It is really too many clinics and what I said - perhaps I was not quite clear - that this club is not just some midwife that supports it. There is a perception in obstetrics and medical science that the environment that the child is born is very important to both the development of the family and the relationship of the mother with the baby. It's a point of view. For those who have this viewpoint and who adopt it, there is this expenditure cover. And right, there's this expense cover when home delivery occurs, because that's how parents and especially the mother choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u45	And in the field there's fresh air.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u46	Okay, now, in the field it happens, if it happens, randomly. Everywhere it becomes the delivery on the plane and on the ship. I don't think we're in such circumstances in our country. There are proper care now. At least we have that. So I do not think that a practice which is against this need for the provision of childbirth health structures is supersedable from my side. To the extent that it will of course need to be developed - and it will obviously be necessary to develop - the provision of services, and for this purpose, the Ministry of Health is responsible and I know very well that the Ministerial Council has in its priorities the strengthening of these policies. But it does not conflict what I say with the pursuit that the government has and you will soon see how this policy will develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the decision of the President of the Parliament: 'Recommendation and creation of a Subcommittee responsible for matters of the Ministry of the Interior and Administrative Reconstruction of the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice'. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u48	We move on to the first with No 162/17-11-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the New Republic of New Democracy, Maximos Charakopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the pensions of the OGA. Mr Harakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I should first of all like to welcome the way in which Parliament's controls are conducted with obstacles. I say this, Mr President, because I had to table the same topical question on the OGF pensions for the third time, so that the government would come to answer. It must be understood that parliamentary control is not a part of the ministers. They do not do a favor to the House coming to answer Members' questions. It is their duty that government officials should answer Members' questions, which they carry? They carry the agony and problems of civil society. I don't want to waste more time on this. Mr President, the government is used to dealing with leaks and statements which create impressions, but which are unfortunately not confirmed by life. The Government, which intends to triple, according to its memorandum of understanding, the insurance contributions to the OGA, attempts to "golden the pill" to pensioners, pensioners of the OGA, saying that 60 euros are being raised in the lower pension of the OGA. To this end, there are announcements made by the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostolos. They were a headline theme in the newspaper "ELEVERIA" of Larissa: "The increase of EUR 60 in the lower pension, the Minister for Rural Development presided through the national pension". This was published on Thursday on 22 October. However, three days later, Sunday, October 25, another front page of the same newspaper invokes statements and leaks of the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity: "In view of the increase in pensions the Apostle, in a completely different length of Tsakalotus and Katrugalos." I'll testify for the Minutes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, he notes the report: "Just the day before the Ministry of Labour leaked that the basic pension of the OGA would be reduced in the context of the insurance reform, while the aim of the Ministry is additional revenues of EUR 500 million on an annual basis from the increase in the insurance contributions of farmers". Mr President, because farmers have been burnt to the bay, they blow and yoghurt, where 'bulk' is the pre-electional announcement to reduce farmers' taxation, tax-free subsidies, 12 000 euros for farmers, for the abolition of the ENPI in the fields, for the tenth time of the OGA and so on. And instead came the memorial of the Armageddon tax company that accompanies it. So I ask the government in particular: which of the two suggestions is accepted to the Government? The recommendation by the Minister for Rural Development, which speaks of increasing the lower OGA pension by EUR 60, or the leadership of the Ministry of Labour, to reduce OGA pensions? How many are the potential beneficiaries of this EUR 60 increase, and what is the exact cost of implementing this announcement? Can the OGA as an insurance agency bear the burden of a generous increase of EUR 60 in the lower pension and, if not, who will bear the cost of implementing the Minister for Rural Development's announcement? Finally, if the Ministry of Labour, to which leaks are attributed, intends to reduce the basic pension for the OGA, what scale will this reduction be, Mr Secretary-General? How many farmers will be concerned with this reduction and when will it be implemented, the non-small one if this reduction was finally decided? If the announcements still apply - and I conclude, Mr Apostle - to increase the lower pension by EUR 60, I would like to know whether there is prior consultation with the troika, the institutions, as you say them. Is there any contact with the partners or is it another announcement without a reflection? Thanks for the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Harakopoulou, you know that I had this sad event that prevented me from coming. I tried every way to contact you and my office. I have made too many calls to kindly mention the fact that prevented me from coming. I also sent you a message, Sms, I guess you got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Undersecretary, this is the third time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u53	Today is the third. I'm here today. I told you what happened. I found you in the hallway of the House. I thought you kindly agreed the first time, because there was a block in our activities as a Ministry the next day. I have asked you and agreed, and the next I sent you a message after an agonizing attempt to inform you that this had happened. We can't deal with death. Sometimes there are some facts that really prevent us. I think you will accept that there was absolutely no intention of reducing your own activity as a controlled Member. However, with regard to the issues you are saying, I am sure that what you are saying is the starting point for you to participate in the dialogue that we need to do on social security. Your comments - I imagine - are the introduction of what you are going to do in the debate that will take place within the framework of the insurance reform that we are planning. There you will really have the opportunity to see that the publications that have precedes have nothing to do with neither the design nor our intentions. We are moving on to a sustainable social security system which, of course, needs the OGA. You know there's a fragmentation of insurance and pensions in the OGA as well. You know that the basic pension established since 1961 completely ceases in 2027, is completely abolished, disappears. There are time sections in which the farmer takes the so-called 'additional pension' from 1987 to 1997. Then comes the analogue, the so-called'main pension', and we have different amounts of contributions. In fact, according to the 2011 Act, v. 3986 - if I am not mistaken - as from now, since 2015, they have been charged with additional contributions by all the members of the OGA. It's already their first call. It comes from your law that this increase in contributions, which is close to 12%, as a cost to the farmer in this semester and only for a semester. You will therefore see that the reform is necessary. We need to streamline the rules on social security to enhance the sustainability of the social security system. There you will see that there will be no such future forecasts for a terrible increase in contributions and a reduction in pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u55	Mr Secretary, first of all, you have my sympathy for the unfortunate event you are invoking, but I told you that neither you nor Mr Katrugalos, your chief minister, came in the first time. You have not come here for the reason you claim - and I respect him - but neither have Mr Katrugalos the second time. I don't want to spend more time than he does. I think I've said it before. I am afraid, however, that since your position - at least in the prototype - we have not become wiser in relation to the specific questions that we have raised. You told us we'd see them in the course of the insurance reform. Is the Apostle announcement for an increase in the lower pension of the OGA by EUR 60, or is this another firework, one more announcement without opposition? We didn't become wiser than your position. I fear that the creative ambiguity of Mr Varoufakis has been a school in the government, he has perished the whole of the Ministerial Council. I understand the difficulty you are in, because you intercepted the people's vote two months ago in the elections, promising everything to everyone, with announcements which are not actually confirmed. You promised a third pension to farmers, an increase in pensions. You considered the reductions in supplementary pensions to be excessive by 5% of Hardouvel's mail, and today you have forgotten all your election commitments. You consider it rich for those who receive a pension of 1,000 euros and literally bring “loving” to pensions and CSCE. Furthermore, at the same time, you have literally imposed a stop to payments. You do not pay pensions, nor only for young pensioners. And I'm not telling you, exercising opposition. You are told by your former companion, Alexis Metropoulou - to a pre-elected SYRIZA official - who is head of the Union for the Protection of Labour and the Social State. And he tells you that the funds have been tampered with by the three hundred thousand applications for retirement, the unprecedented for a country in the European Union, the accumulation of outstanding applications for retirement and the search for some 4.5 billion. I am afraid, therefore, that these days are also falling apart, and this myth of the social sensitivity of the Left is falling apart. Are you really wondering how these people who have been waiting for over a year, almost two years, can live to receive pensions? With what income can they really live their families and take them for a walk? Because you are also a State Secretary for Social Solidarity, let me take note of your brief time to consider something, even to ask for your opinion, confirmation or denial. Yesterday, on November 16th, the newspaper "KOSMOS" of Larissa had the following headlines: "The order of disconnection in eight thousand watches of PPC". From December 1, the report states that a contractor undertakes to cut the current to eight thousand consumers, eight thousand households, within the desert, in Larissa. Is that ultimately your social sensitivity? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Harakopoulos, as you can see, this is another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u57	Today we call them 'batteries' and 'payers'? Of course, all this contributes to the demolition of the Left, but shock is huge both for society and for the Greek economy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u59	Mr Harakopoulos, in the end I will take as a distraction what you say about what you are suffering at this time in your party because they have no basis. What impressions do you want to cause?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u60	Don't make such a setup! Look at yours. Mr. Panagulis on the right will soon ask a question. You deported him...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u61	No, I'm not doing anything, but I'm trying to figure out why you're saying all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u62	Excuse me, but these are hits...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Harakopoulos, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u64	Go to a theme, to hear it and the world, which is not included in the timely question, to get the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u65	If you're unthinkable. You don't come to the House often.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u66	You do not have to answer the second question. Mr. Secretary, go ahead and answer the first question. The other is unsubstantiated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u67	In order not to get any impressions wrong, I will tell you and refer you to the relevant announcement by PPC administration last week, which in detail presents how many houses the electricity has been cut off, hundreds of thousands of people who have left without power and in what cases and to what extent in this period of government of SYRIZA - ANEL we had power cuts. Look at it, because the numbers are indicative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u68	Go ahead and answer the question that he asked you at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u69	With regard to your point, however, I must tell you that the policy we are working on, and you will see it in its details in the relevant bill, which will be formed, will cover all your questions. That's not an answer. However, it is a social security system and not a stirring-up of different devices manufactured on a case-by-case basis, in order to serve small interests and small aims. Because I'll remind you of something that you know, that even pensions were treated with an election intent. Every increase that was being made, there was an election ahead of it. This has happened to farmers too. And it was the basic pension, which was provided by your own law for a 4% reduction each year and for a 30 euro increase, and then for a 4% reduction. It is this increase which will disappear in 2027, according to forecasts, and is reduced every year by 4%. This kind of predictions of your own legislation and the previous governments as a whole are not such that we can follow and do not want to follow them. We want to make an insurance reform that ensures equality between citizens and will finally put a stop to the downhill and the collapse of the social security system. I have told you that you cannot forget that there has been a 48% reduction in public pensions and 44% in IKA pensions. And you come and ask about things that have been sentenced to death. Social security does not exist in reality, because it is neither social nor insurance. It's practically over as a system to exist. It is entirely based on a constant and agonizing effort to cover the deficits that come from old and with reduced expenditure on coverage by your own government, from 18 billion to 9 billion. So what we are dealing with is a situation in rubbish with a pierced landscape, which we must also have the responsibility to support and develop. And that's what we're gonna do. It is not enough that you brought this into this situation, we are not covered under this picture, that it is your fault. We have a responsibility to put the system in a sustainable situation and to develop. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u71	I beg your pardon, Mr President, but if he does not answer one of the questions I raised, there is no point in parliamentary scrutiny. I put specific questions and waited for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Harakopoulos, please. Before we move to the next timely question, I would like to announce that they will not be discussed because of an impediment to the competent ministers and that the following questions are deleted: The first under number 167/17-11-2015 top-level question of the first-round parliamentary Karditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and use of the Centre for Genetic Improvement of Animals Karditsa. The third, with number 134/13-11-2015, top-stage question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the restoration of the National Theatre of Rhodes. The fifth, No. 156/17-11-2015, top-level question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the number of donors and transplants carried out for 2015 in our country. The third, with number 171/17-11-2015, topical question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the payment of workers to health centres. We move on to the debate of the sixth under number 154/16-11-2015 topical question of the first cycle of MEPs II Piraeus of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the Greek Open University and its administration. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u73	Good evening, Mr. President, Minister. My topical question concerns a burning and topical issue, the Open University. For twenty years the Open University, while having the prerequisites for becoming self-powered and self-interested, has not reached the point of other universities, which within six, seven years gained their self-responsibility. While the laws governing it are in force and have been laid down, such as Article 121 of the Treaty. It has not been implemented and nothing has been done about it yet. So we ask: When will the dean's election process begin and be convened? Because there is this inertia of the competent management bodies to begin the procedures for the election of the administration, despite the fact that there is a resolution by the ICP members, from 26-5-2015, a decision by the general meeting of the ICP members on 4-11-2015 where they state in detail that they fulfil all the conditions in accordance with Article 121 of the LPD. 4316/2014 and have already been notified on 5-11-2015? All the things you have been notified can also be tabled for the Minutes. When do you plan to give us a fixed answer? When do you intend to start this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u74	Mr Anagnastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u75	You will allow me first to make a general comment. Once we have undertaken - two months have not yet been closed - fourteen questions have been asked and four topical questions have been answered for the Open University. No question has been raised for two years in the previous government for the Open University. So I am surprised that so many questions have been asked in these two months. In the timely question you ask me, I have answered here again in the House and have answered in writing the questions that have been asked. It's a surprise to me! Should a Minister not do absolutely anything to ensure that he does not have parliamentary control? To come to your question now, even though it has been answered as a topical question and as a simple question. Because I have come in touch with the Greek Open University members, I will repeat what I said before. Within this two-month period we have requested an organizational chart for the administration of the university. You're all saying it's been working for twenty years. The main pillar of a university to be self-powered is to have command. He doesn't have permanent members. The first problem we had to deal with was not to collapse the Greek Open University, because the administrative contracts have expired and if the management committee and we on the other hand did not intervene - there are, on the other hand, I can refer you to or leave the answers - the university would collapse. If we do not have an establishment plan for what is the permanent administrative staff needed in the university - which is one pillar - we cannot go further. The second thing I asked for, and we do not have, is the university's internal regulation that will ensure his academic capacity, namely how the university is organised academically. The third thing I said with the workers, with the IGC members, is that before Christmas we will have a new meeting to see the institutional issues and the time needed to self-determination the university, because we, our government, are, of course, in favour of separatism, but in favour of separatism that meets certain criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u76	She has the floor for Mrs. Big housekeeper to be re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u77	We agree, Minister. We just need a specific timetable framework, that is, when these actions are to be taken? Three, five months, one year? The unclear framework you are telling us does not give us a certain time horizon, that is, we will start then and we will end then. Where's that going? In the meantime, the previous administrations were not your party, they were not politicians, but they have not been checked at all. They may have responsibilities for all this delay. They may have responsibilities for all problems. Have you made any action to see if they have political, administrative or criminal responsibilities? I ask you, why is this delay? A new ESDP programme is coming. With what administration? If, in other words, a dean comes out, should it not have an administration and a dean authority that can function? Now it's unsolved. By November they will be paid. Until August the conventions expire. All of this is pending and there is a blurred landscape, nothing more. When are the consultations that you're talking about? Besides, in order for the consultations to take place, we must have a direct involvement of all actors, have discussions with all directly, primarily with the students, with the LPI and with the administrative staff. Administrative staff are undetermined and do not know whether they will be there tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Teachers have passed resolutions and they don't know what's going on. It's a university whose whole range is unresolved. Nothing is certain. I am not saying that you have been wrong in two months, but this is perpetuating twenty years. And I am trying to tell you not to follow the same line and its ambiguity that 'we would like to place institutions and framework'. Give you a timeframe. Tell us 'three or six months'. It's a loose end that makes students feel that they're not students, that it's nothing. They feel their degrees degraded. And teachers feel like they're not university teachers. It is a blurred landscape of the Greek Open University. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u78	The Deputy Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u79	I think you have put the problems in your own way, Mr President. I don't have to put them. These are the problems. For the administrative staff you are talking about, now what we have tried to do directly, almost from the first days that we, as the political leadership and the management committee, have undertaken, was not to find these people on the road and, above all, not to collapse the university without administration. Imagine that for twenty years no care had been taken that a university should have permanent administrative staff, depending on its establishment plan. So what we were doing immediately was to ensure the extension of the NRP for a month, to ensure, after the extension of the contracts of people from university reserves to the end of August, when the academic year ends, and during this period, that we make legislation to finally have a transparent tender, so that, depending on the establishment plan, we can see how many officials are needed for the administration of the university, in addition to mobilising existing contract staff - because they have the experience of distance learning - so that the university can be served. As far as separatism is concerned, you say it's in the air and you're right. This is the situation we have received. In other words, for twenty years we have had specific governments, which are now indulging us because we have not been self-determination within two months, and have not been doing so for so many years. We have thirty thousand students, who pay tuition fees and tens of millions of tuition fees - to say that too - and they are forty-seven or forty-eight permanent members of ICPs and the other thousand eight hundred are partners. Does it need or does it not need an institutional framework that will guarantee the university and, above all, those people who are paid? That is what we are in consultation with the permanent members of the IGC. I cannot tell you why it would be political that by March or April it would be self-determination. I want an organizational chart from the university, so we can have the administration. I want an internal regulation to see the academic function of the university, to proceed to a firm form of segregation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. Let me announce that they will not be discussed due to lack of competence and that the fourth question raised by No 157/17-11-2015 topical question by Mr. Jasona Folila to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of the Therapeutic - Pedagogical Centre of MEDA "MERIMNA" in Patras, as well as the second question by number 138-13-11-2015, the second question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the lifting of the twenty-kilometre limit for the free transfer of pupils from the day-to-day and seasonal PESALs. Also, it will not be discussed due to a blockade by MP the sixth under number 160/17-11-2015 a top-level question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of the Greek Open University and deleted. We now go to the fifth under number 166/17-11-2015 topical question by the Independent MEP 2 of Athens Mr. Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance about the list of Lagard. Mr. Panagulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, a month and a half ago, I had asked a question about the Lagard list. Unfortunately, there have been twenty-five days, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and the four - five ministers in the Ministry in the Constitution Square have abstained from answering. They continue the same practice as their colleagues in the New Democracy and PASOK. Mr President, SYRIZA, from 2012 to today - and in the last elections, as well as in the January elections - had put its burden on the fight against corruption and tax evasion and was on the first lines of his commitment, and in particular on the Lagard list and the rest of the lists and, indeed, I must congratulate the Ministry of Finance because he has begun to arrest. Mr President, listen to this: 'Spirits in ninety-two-year-old browns, because they did not get any proof'. Is that the government's economic and social policy? Mr President, on 25 May, the prosecutor, Mr Athanasios, sent a letter to the Prime Minister and the relevant ministries on the Lagard list, as well as the other lists: a list of foreign immersions, a list of Liechtenstein, a list of Luxembourg, a list of Great Britain, a list of sixty-five CDs. All these lists are requested, Mr President, to serve and control them by 20 auditors by 31-12-2015. These checks must be carried out in a million three hundred and sixty - four thousand debtors. There is an unacceptable subsidization of the Ministry of Finance. That's what Mr. Athanasios says, I'm not saying it. Three hundred auditors are needed. They are four ministers at the Ministry of Finance and so far they have done absolutely nothing about these lists. Days ago, it was announced that the property was frozen for 100,000,000 of a big businessman and big business director. You never told us, Minister, his name. If you don't want to say it, I will. If you don't tell us here today, I'll tell you. In the brown, you handcuffs! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Karageorgios Serbia, Minister, who is going to your Ministry every morning, outside the National Bank, there is a styler, commonly called a luster. Because I spend every day there, I've found that he doesn't have a cash machine either. We know them, Minister. It's not just Mr. Samaras' close associate, Mr. Papastaurou, who has 5,000. There are hundreds of thousands of others who have millions and for ten months that SYRIZA is a government has no control over anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u82	You must be done. You will take the floor again to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u83	I shall finish with two phrases, Mr President. Minister, that's where the equivalent is. They're not even in wine, they're not even where you're looking for them. The equivalents are on the Lagard list. Mr. Nikoloudis has explicitly stated that he is at least 2,500,000. You've taxed it all. The Greek people can't stand it, Mr. Minister. You've taxed everyone. Mr President, the government has taxed those powers which gave SYRIZA the power to come to power.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u84	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, I am really embarrassed for two reasons. One reason is because I'm talking in a Chamber with a Member who only creates a discomfort for me, because I'm not used to it, and the second reason is why I have to apologize for the subject of the Lagard list, when the responsibilities are elsewhere, and when I was one of those who always talked about the Lagard list and not just now. I haven't started talking about the Lagard list since I became Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Finance because there are responsibilities on this course. However, I would like to answer specifically the questions you ask. First of all, for reasons of parliamentary order, your first question has been answered by me, has been signed. I have the original here and I'll show it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u86	I didn't get any...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u87	I'll show the signatures. Let's not fight about it. We have more substantial things that we can disagree on. But with regard to what you denounced about the Ministry of Finance, first of all, I would like to state that I am not proud of what the Ministry of Finance has done as a whole on the issues on the Lagard list. I believe that it is one of the greatest scandals in post-population, for which political, criminal and disciplinary responsibilities must at some point be attributed. With regard to what you mentioned, however, first of all handcuffs in browns did not put any tax office, Mr Panagoulis. He could have entered another agency for other reasons. But the mandate we have given is that for these checks we do not start with the oven, the cheese pie or the canteen, but from the big business, the five-star hotels, and then we go to anyone else. But we're handcuffs in brown. In relation to the names you say, I think there is a contradiction here. On the one hand, you say that we have done nothing, and on the other hand, you see that there are currently checks at the Ministry of Finance, which in the past was a joke, even to announce them. Now we're doing these checks and we're making huge amounts of money. As I have repeatedly said, only the unbaptised Mount Athos are respected. No other abattoirs exist for us, and we will avoid tax evasion, smuggling, corruption and complexity where we find them. I do not agree with 'you did nothing'. We did not do the same as the government, but the previous governments, what had to be done. However, there was political responsibility for the fact that in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, the audit had not even started - control started by the ILO in December 2012 - and the case was led mathematically and orderlylyly. We in Parliament's programme statements raised the issue of listing, precisely because we saw where the situation was going. We have brought, despite the objections that exist, the question of extending the limitation. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] So we don't accept the complaint that we didn't do anything. Of course, we did not do what we had to do at the speed that we had to do. We're doing it now and at high speed. The Lagard list and the other lists will be checked. But, in order not to consume more than my time, I will submit to the Minutes, in order to be given, the answer to the GDR, which describes the fact that a hundred and thirty-three cases have been completed with a total of EUR 131,000,000 and the Special Secretariat of the IMO, which states in means that because there is an Attorney-General, it cannot give us any assumptions about these facts. Two secretariats, therefore, are inspected, the GATT and the Special Secretariat of the ILO. I will give it to the Minutes, so that you and this House can also know exactly what has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Panagulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, as far as brown is concerned, this is a post of the only friendly and fanatical to the government of a newspaper that put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u90	What Service is it from?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u91	Minister, I don't know what service he's from. I'm not in the CPI to know which service it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u92	It's not from a tax office.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u93	As regards what the Minister said, Mr President, I do not support the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. From this Stepma, I fought them as a SYRIZA MEP. However, it is incomprehensible, Mr President, that ten months later we were told that they guaranteed 137 million, as the Minister said, when Mr Nikoloudis said that at least EUR 2.5 billion could be raised. That's what Mr. Nicoludis says. The bride who pays her, Mr. President? He pays the biopast for looking for equivalents. Do you know what a government official said about where the equivalents will be found? They have not left a channel for channelling, Mr President, from morning to night! At noon, midnight turns to the channels. Where's the time to check the Lagard list? Mr. Nikoloudis, who was placed by the government of SYRIZA, disappeared. They didn't explain why Mr. Nikoloudis left. Is it because he wanted to find at least 2.5 billion that he had declared to be on the Lagard list? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You know very much, Minister - and you do not talk to me about the Ministry's control mechanisms - that both the French and the German and other European countries on the Lagard list have raised many billions, five to seven billion - if my memory is not cheating on me - Germany, and France too. And you came here to tell us you raised 137 million. The government has taxed everything. It completes the impoverishment of previous governments in tax raids every day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will close with this because this debate cannot be confined to three or five minutes. I'll hang up with this. We promised, SYRIZA had promised the Greek people that he would abolish HISFIA. HIS VIA remains. He had promised 12,000 euros tax-free. The tax-free is still. He had promised a thirteenth pension. What does he see ten months later? Ten months later what does he see? He sees his income decrease, comes the total destruction of those social classes that fought, so SYRIZA - I repeat - can come to power. Minister, in Greece, there are one and a half million unemployed, five hundred thousand unpaid in the private sector...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u94	Finish, Mr. Panagulis, on the Lagard list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a serious matter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u96	But that's a lot of things. The question is, for the Lagard list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u97	Yeah, it's for the Lagard list. They're having an affair. Six hundred thousand children are on the line of poverty. 15% of students in Attica are undernourished. Thousands of businesses have closed down. Two and a half million citizens, Minister, owe the public and the insurance funds. How can they give them if they don't? But I asked you to tell us the name. Brown's been handcuffed and imprisoned in his countryside! You can tell us the name of this great-grandfather and businessman who pledged his fortune for 100,000 euros. We cannot pass through a poor violator, a super-seasonist, and leave the big-bourgeoisie and businessman without saying his name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u98	The Minister must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u99	You and the government have to tell us. Why? On the Lagard list, Mr President - and I am ending with it - what names are they? They are the ones who got loans from the banks, the ones who stole the tax and pulled them abroad. Or don't you know, Minister, some ex-boyfriends who have been involved in your profession who have taken homes in London, Paris or New York? You don't know that? Call them and tell them "Come here!" You know them, and you know them very well. I know here that I have nothing to do with the object or the building of Syntagma Square! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u100	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Panagoulis, I understand your political disagreement with what the government does. She's respected, as is your story. But there is another thing about trying, through the question, a total depreciation and a zeroing of the government's tax policy. If it's annoying that we put a television ad tax, if it's annoying that we're doing checks that we've been doing in the past, as I said before, no one ever thought about doing it, if it's annoying that we're hitting corruption and complication...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u102	I'll be with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u103	...and we'll hit her even further, yes, then you're right that we're taxing everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u104	I'll be with you. Let me see it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u105	We don't tax everything. We're moving...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u106	What about Mr. Papastaurou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u107	Don't rush, Mr. Papapulis, and I'll tell you! On the subject of controls, I would like to say that first of all there is the presumption of innocence. The fact that we have confirmed some taxes on a taxpayer does not mean that he is also guilty. There are many stages in the process until the check is completed. And I, as Minister, can't afford to go out and start flying names. Let us sometimes abolish tax confidentiality and of course give all the names of the persons controlled or anything else. However, as long as there is fiscal confidentiality and the presumption of innocence, we cannot start by saying names at the beginning of the procedure. Now, with regard to the various billions you have said, you know, the pressure that we ministers have from the Prime Minister is neither to cover up any case nor anything else, but to do our work more quickly and more effectively. So Alexiadis has no excuse for any delay or oligopoly. So do not denounce the government in general and vaguely. The responsibilities are by Ministry and by Minister as to whether he does or does not do his job well. As far as the issue of list controls is concerned, the problem we have is that there are too many cases, staff too little, and the organisation of these checks so far has been wrong. We are working on it, and we will work on it, because we now have more tools and political and legal, and you can be sure that we will not let anything fall down, especially for the Lagard list. It is also a political bet and a decision for the government, but also a personal bet by those who tried to lead the case to limitations, those who tried to cover up their political friends, those who tried to cover up intertwined and other entrepreneurs or civil servants to be brought to the prosecutor and the public fund to pay the "marble". There is no way he can save one of the taxes! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-23-S1-commons.u109	With the consent of this House at 19.42' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 24 November 2015 at 16.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
