ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "For the recapitalisation framework of credit institutions and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance". I see the Minister is here in time. As far as I'm concerned, he doesn't want to speak first. I would remind you that the decision of the Conference of Presidents is to go by 20.00 hours to discuss today's bill. The information I have currently given by the President of Parliament is that he has so far not expressed any intention or request for a roll-call vote. The debate is organised. Then, if no roll-call vote is tabled, I think we will end earlier than 20 a.m. and that is very good for Saturday. Before we enter the bill, I'd like to make some announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "For the recapitalisation framework of credit institutions and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance". Ladies and gentlemen, MP Mr Konstantinos Javaras is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 29 October to 3 November 2015 and MP Mr Konstantinos Koukodemou is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 15 to 17 November 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming back to the bill. Today's draft legislation, in accordance with the decision taken by the Standing Committee, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is being discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with this procedure, the debate is being concluded in principle and on the articles in a meeting. The debate shall be held by the rapporteurs and the special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and one of their representatives, and their speech shall be limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. So far the information I have received, except for Mr Leventis, which we have not yet informed, is that the heads of the parties will certainly not be given the floor. So the 'until 20.00' I told you it's easy to do it earlier. I propose, although not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, that five speakers from SYRIZA be given the floor, three speakers from New Democracy and one speaker from the other six parties. I also propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. As far as time is concerned, I suggest that the rapporteurs and special speakers have twelve minutes of speaking time, the competent Minister, 13 minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, fourteen minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups, twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes, the speakers appointed by the parties. Because it is organised, and if what I said at the outset is verified, we can show a slight tolerance. Dentality is limited to half the time of protology. Finally, in accordance with Rule 109, the meeting shall be concluded within a maximum of 10 hours. I think I have the consent of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u3	The House unanimously agreed. Before I give the floor to the majority rapporteur, Mr Geramis Balaoura, for twelve minutes and for us to win time - there are the letters to the Bureau, just to mention the names for the Minutes, but also for the case of a change at the last minute, and we have not been informed - we are told that for the debate of today's Parliamentary Representatives are appointed by SYRIZA, Mr Christos Mantas, from New Democracy Mr. Makis Voridis, from the Golden Dawn, from Christos Papapapas, from the Democratic Compact, from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos and from the Union of Centres. The rapporteurs are Mr. Balaouras from SYRIZA, Mr.Stikoras from New Democracy, Mr. Panagiotaros from Golden Dawn, Mr. Maniatis from the Democratic Synapsis, Mr. Karathanasopoulos from the KKE, Mr.Theocharis from "Potami", Mr. Katsikis from the Independent Greeks and Mr. Katsiantonis from the Association of Centres. Some speakers have been altered on the basis of the number I have told you from each Party. Mr Balaura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today comes an important bill that normalises the functioning of the country's credit system and possibly brings it back to the 'appropriate' path, i.e. reintroduces it to a path that will hit the complexion, namely the known 'three of sin' between SMEs, economic interests and political system. It's a bet for us. We are creating the terms and conditions and, above all, we have the political will, because we do not have 'pages' and interests to serve, to move forward with this crisis and to reintroduce the banking system on the path that must be followed, not least by the well-known new products, as they say, but also by the traditional products of the banking system, in other words by providing liquidity to the system, in order to meet the needs of the economy. Finally, we hope - and I personally - that the areas that this will bring about will also satisfy the Greek people' s moral sense of what has been going on by bankers for so many years, especially over the last five years. Ladies and gentlemen, the objectives we set today are high. As I said before, we want to normalise the operation of the banking system and restore the confidence of the Greek people in the face of the credit system and therefore better and more efficient. In this regard, I will mention a few things later on. Today, then, this road that we have opened will first stop at a station, which will be the evaluation by the institutions. This, if everything develops smoothly, will restore the degression of interest rates, reconnect the banks to the international market, so that they have liquidity, which will offer it to the market at low interest rates. It's a race that's rather curious, because it's both endurance and speed. It is a race that we are starting today with the recapitalisation of the banks and which we will proceed with tomorrow with the red loans. These procedures are parallel, i.e. they go together. And here there is a big difference with the previous banks' recapitalisations. Red loans, i.e. loans that were not served, either business or consumer or housing, will be directly examined at this stage, so that there will be a parallel process, which will be much more appropriate and effective in relation to previous recapitalisations. Finally, it's the big bet, the big fight for the debt. That's why I also talked about a fight of endurance. All this is about the stability of the banking system, investment - private and public - and the utilization of the Junker package in order to hit the recession. The first messages of the recession reduction have already been accepted by the Commission's report. This must therefore be done in order to move to development and to alleviate the vulnerable sections of the Greek people who have suffered so much suffering so far. Because according to our position, we are oriented to the side of these vulnerable layers, we are classic with these layers, in this difficult struggle that we are giving. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the recapitalisations so far, let us remember the recapitalisation of Horsescouf in 2008, which gave 5 billion in the banking system, of which there are still others. They haven't returned to the public. The main one, however, is the period 2012-2013, where 39 billion people entered the banking system. It is a colossal sum charged by the Greek people, in which, if guarantees are added, it amounts to a sum of 130 billion. What about that money? The citizen wonders, we are also wondering. It is good in the debate that their positions should be developed by the Civic Opposition and by the other parties. Why have these recapitalisations failed? In my opinion, for two important reasons: One is that they have not taken into account the rate of increase in red loans. Imagine their evolution: They started in 2010 from 10% in total loans and reached 40% in 2014! This was not reflected in the recapitalisation of the banks and, in conjunction with the strong real problems of the economy, we had as a result these well-known problems with the multipliers, with all these real measures that were sometimes seen. At first, everything was 'go' - they said - 'roloi'. These problems therefore also erroneous forecasts have eroded red loans, so that banks cannot improve their position with previous recapitalisations. The third element to which the previous recapitalisations failed - and here the representatives of the New Democracy and PASOK responded - is that they left previous administrations to remain, namely those who created the problems, in order to bring about a solution to the problems they have created. And I want to say that what happened in Greece is original worldwide. Everywhere, in all the countries of the world, when the banking system, banks as a whole or separately, face problems and the state comes to strengthen them, then it changes administrations. Here has been this anomaly, which is interpreted by the well-known interlocutory that I have said before, of the triangle of interlocutory, media, political system and economic interests. So we have this velocity race for recapitalisation, because from 1-1-2016, that is in a few weeks' time, if we do not recapitalise, there is a risk that there will be 'haircuts' over EUR 100,000. We therefore want to ensure that the statements are made, that we remove any fear from the Greek people for their statements. The procedure is known. Just say two things: First of all, from the agreement signed with the institutions, we have taken EUR 25 billion for a pillow. Today, it seems - and at noon the results of stress tests will be announced - the indications so far are that the sums they will need will be much smaller - much smaller, I repeat - and we will therefore have a smaller impact on all these categories, which we hear we have charged the Greek people with new debts, etc. At the same time, we will have - to see whether we have charged or not charged - full voting rights. What happened from previous governments is also unprecedented worldwide, that there were no voting rights to the person who gave the money, such as the Greek state, the Greek state. Even in the United States, the state had the right to vote. Furthermore, this is why a cabinet act will come out tomorrow, where it will be played between the possibility of some bonds convertible into shares - the so-called 'Cocos' that have a high interest rate - or in shares - that is, there will be a balance - which will also have a voting right. As I said, the Ministerial Council act will determine that. With previous recapitalisations, as I said before, ladies and gentlemen, they had taken about 60% of their needs, a huge number. But I repeat that they did not have the right to vote. Today the road to public accountability and transparency of banks is opening. This accountability and transparency can reach bankers' dismissal if they do not do their job. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u5	You have a little tolerance, Mr. Comrade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Of course, this was not the case as we would have liked. There are balances, compromises. There are issues in this case, such as the salaries of people who will be in the Financial Stability Fund - which we regard as arrogant - and issues of immunity. The New Democracy yesterday accused us, along with the PASOK, of the faults, namely the government of SYRIZA, which has been through us all this seven months until the elections has created conditions of crisis in the banks. Until they said the term "bank run", i.e. that the SYRIZA government was in bankruptcy. I would like to tell you that the 'bank run' phenomena have been internationally noted. It is not mainly because of governments, but because of irresponsible political practices either of economic life factors or, as has happened here in Greece, of political factors. I remind you of the statements made by Samaras, Prime Minister at the time of the country, who said that the ATMs will be closed from the day of SYRIZA's takeover. I remind you of Georgiadis statements that he'll take his money to Paris to invest it there! I remind you of Mrs Bakoyannis, who said that the banks would close the three-day day of the Holy Spirit. But we also need to remember the parallel way of the European Central Bank and our lenders - I avoid the word 'partners' -, which have done everything, cutting our ability to use the treasury bills, providing liquidity to the dropper through the ELA and finally issues that have led us to the capital controls. We therefore intend - and I shall end, Mr President - to move forward and very briefly on the question of the banking system in the creation of special-purpose banks, banks such as investment banks and cooperatives. The first step is now being taken and we must applaud it. It is an incision that we are protecting - and this is what the Prime Minister said in his first statements after the agreement - the cooperative banks, because our logic is that we want to keep them alive, keep them recapitalised, strong in order to contribute to the functioning and development of the local economy, which has other peculiarities and capabilities. Therefore, on the basis of this logic, I believe that we can achieve - and this is another bet - and we will also raise issues of banking operation, as I said before, both in terms of traditional banking, but also in terms of social benefits, through a social criticism and control which the trade unions, municipalities, citizens' movements and consumers can exercise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a calculation: with relative tolerance and taking into account the speech made by the government representatives, I think we can be done in six hours. This means that, if we operate properly, at 16.00 p.m. - and if there is no request for a roll-call vote - we can be done. I tell you in knowledge and harmony! Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the European economies since the middle of 2008 have been at the forefront of a great global economic crisis and then the leaderships of the opposition parties have been burning that they have not seen it. The crisis was systemic and contagious, from the financial sector to the vice versa, from the financial sector to the financial sector, as was the case with Greece. The follow-up is known. Since then, the credit institutions in the country have been, and under their responsibility, faced with major challenges which have had adverse effects on the liquidity and solvency of credit institutions, which have made it necessary to develop a support framework in order to safeguard citizens' deposits. This is a framework that began to be created in 2008 in a methodical manner, in an insight into the then New Democracy government, despite the rabies reaction of the opposition parties. I would remind the House that the government at the time was supposed to give the money that was alleged to be available to bankers and did not give it to the people. Indicatively between then and 2014, among other things, the following initiatives were taken: Firstly, in 2008 a package of capital aid and guarantees, Mr. rapporteur, was introduced for the Greek State to credit institutions amounting to EUR 28 billion. This package is to date, as the law we are discussing - the 2008 law is included in the recapitalisation framework - an important tool for supporting the banking system. The accountability? Yeah, that's it. Total revenues in the state budget from the use of this package, 2008 - from dividends, first pillar, and from commissions, second and third pillars of that law - exceeded EUR 4 billion in 2009-2014, for the benefit of Greek citizens. There was a loss of 4 billion euros and a loss of 1 euros. Secondly, concrete initiatives have been taken since 2008 for the institutional shielding of the banking system. For example, in 2008, the deposit guarantee scheme was strengthened, with the ceiling increasing to EUR 100,000 from EUR 20,000 that was until then, which has been valid until now in our country and which has now been extended to a pan-European level. The Financial Stability Fund was established in 2010, which is also operated by the current Government. In 2011, an institutional framework was established for the resolution of credit institutions, which was also adopted by the current Government, incorporating the relevant European directives. In this respect, the Commission notes that the Bank of Greece did not have sufficient resources to finance the restructuring of the Bank of Greece's banking system. Ladies and gentlemen, in all these political options, between 2008 and 2014, SYRIZA was consistently opposed, and most of them opposed the current Minister of Finance. However, as a result of these choices, the banking institutions regained their access to the markets and led to successful capital increases of EUR 8,3 billion in 2014. They issued securities in 2014 worth EUR 2.5 billion. They zeroed their dependence on the European Central Bank's Extraordinary Support Mechanism, the famous ELA. The flow of new non-performing loans has been drastically reduced, while at the end of 2014 - hold this back, I will come back - the market capitalisation of the Greek State's participation, through the CFS, in systemic banking institutions had been established at around EUR 15 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, this situation in 2014 changed radically in 2015. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL, due to its mistaken operations, has brought the banking system up against huge risks, risks raised by bank holidays and capital restrictions that still exist. This is because, among other things, the total deposits and reposes of credit institutions from December 2014 until today have been reduced by approximately EUR 50 billion - look out! - 25% of their total, one quarter of their total. The quality of the bank’s assets deteriorated, as non-performing loans and international markets increased rapidly, and in substance no operations were carried out on the interbank market with foreign counterparties even against a forerunner. The European Commission notes this fact, which in its report of July 2015, states that ‘there are significant risks to financial stability in Greece arising from the uncertainty of the Greek Government’s economic policies in the first half of 2015. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u9	The well-known game.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u10	What, however, is the result of SYRIZA and ANEL governance today in the banking system? Firstly, the financing of banks is mainly through the Eurosystem. Indicatively, ELA funding is being shaped at around EUR 85 billion today from zero at the end of 2014, at the cost of both banks and borrowers, for which you are cut. Secondly, the value of bank shares has collapsed. The value of the shares held by the Greek State today, with yesterday's prices, is now below EUR 3 billion, at EUR 2.9 billion, from EUR 15 billion at the end of 2014, reduced by 80%, with huge potential costs for taxpayers. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, there is a need for a new recapitalisation of credit institutions at a new high cost, Mr rapporteur, for taxpayers - because whatever the height, what it is, see how much the bank's own funds are today and make a percentage comparison - with capital requirements due exclusively, as the European Central Bank's report will show in a few hours' time, to the data that are being formed in the economy in 2015, and more specifically, as it will show, in the deterioration of the macroeconomic environment for this year and in the years to come, in the new additional budgetary measures brought about by that government, to capital constraints, to reduce the value of collateral, to the expected increase in new flows, new risky loans. And all this in a few hours, and we'll talk about it. The new recapitalisation is therefore signed with SYRIZA and ANEL. This also confirms, Mr. SYRIZA's rapporteur, and the Bank's monetary policy report for 2014-2015, published in June 2015, as you know very well, and which argues that ‘in the first quarter of 2015 the banks' capital adequacy was at satisfactory levels’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since, however, I have heard the argument of the government and the rapporteur that for the first time the recapitalisation is being dealt with and the question of red loans, let us restore the truth, from which this government is finally divorced. First truth. In previous years - rapporteurs, you know that very well from the Bank of Greece - the framework for the management of short-term exposures and non-performing loans has been established. The Bank of Greece also issued the Code of Conduct for the management of non-performing private liabilities. Second truth. In 2013, the Bank of Greece entrusted BLACKROCK with its assessment of the problematic assets of credit institutions - red loans, Mr Balaura - in particular, the operational preparedness and effectiveness of the frameworks, policies, procedures, practices, practices, Minister, established by the systemic banks to address a wide range of resolution of their problem assets. Red loans, Mr Balaura. This also confirms the monetary policy report of the Bank of Greece, rapporteur, for 2013-2014. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] While in October 2014, a year ago, the European Central Bank completed its overall assessment, which also consisted of a thorough diagnostic audit, with particularly strict criteria, the famous asset quality review, and a stress test exercise. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The banks successfully passed this exercise, which confirmed their solvency and capital adequacy, in order to face future risks, including, Mr. Rapporteur, the report says, and the unsupervised, red loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u11	The rhythm...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u12	As much as it increases, Mr rapporteur, the question is whether it is integrated into the exercise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u13	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u14	They were embedded in the exercise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u15	She got over it a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u16	And because you're causing me, I'll tell you the fourth truth now. Therefore, the previous recapitalisations were of particular importance to the management of the red loans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All of this is confirmed in the latest report of the Governor of the Bank of Greece published in February 2015. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Third truth, because you challenged me. Banks - and you know that - have incorporated the credit risk forecasts, making a significant improvement - as it is called, Minister, and we both know as well - in the scientific banking theory and in practice the coverage index. What's the cover index? This is the ratio of the accumulated provisions for the credit risk to the loans at a late stage, After increasing this percentage, it goes on to say that the banks already incorporated the risk from red loans, which was incorporated into the profit and loss account, went into the assets and entered into the recapitalisation. This is due to the diagnostic studies that have been carried out at the time, which also confirms the exercise of simulation in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Truly fourth, the one that will be made public in a few hours and will confirm, as you will see, that the quality assessment of the bank portfolio - asset quality review - which incorporates red loans was included in the 2014 bank accounts. Let's see if he writes it! The government's argument that red loans are supposedly treated for the first time is therefore not supported by anywhere. As your argument is not supported that for the first time new tools such as Cocos are incorporated, and voting rights are given. Let me remind you - I am sorry - to your great disappointment, in particular your rapporteur, last year, the Minister of Finance, that these were first incorporated into Mr von Wogau's report. See also Commission Decision C(2014) 4254/2014 of 7 April 2014 amending the basic law on the CFSF and of which you voted against. Mr President, you are coming today and you are triumphant about what you voted against a year ago with the Minister of Finance. What did that law say? I read this year's law, and if you find me a difference party, you come and tell me. In this respect, the Commission considers that the capital support granted by the State to the company in question is incompatible with the internal market pursuant to Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. That's what the 2014 Law said. That's what the recapitalisation we're voting on today says. That is what your rapporteur, the Minister for Finance, voted against. Let us go further than that: 'The fund will exercise voting rights without restrictions'. Where did you see that for the first time this year? We brought it last year. We voted for it. You personally voted against it. And now you're triumphant? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As in all, in these matters you are not telling the truth. The truth is that the self-determined government of the Radical Left again wetted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u17	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the Left Government trapped in ideologies, myths, hallucinations and endogenous contradictions, without political direction, plan and will, led the Greek economy and banking system to the dawn and therefore the need for a new unavoidable recapitalisation of credit institutions with a recapitalisation framework that comes in the form of urgency, although you knew the timetables. It gives a greater role, in relation to the past, in the institutions, in the governance of the CFSF, in contrast to what has been done so far. It contains ambiguities in concepts and procedures that can cause serious interpretative and operational issues in their implementation. It leads to the amendment of already approved restructuring plans for credit institutions, resulting in serious risks for the presence of Greek banks abroad. And it poses serious risks of delinquency of the banking system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Stavura, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u20	However, despite these weak points due to the government's failure and given that New Democracy is SYRIZA, the framework can only be adopted in order to proceed as quickly as possible with a strong presence of individuals, so that banks can also perform their mediation role in the functioning of the economy, to remove capital restrictions, to restore the confidence of depositors and investors and to avoid the risk of widespread systemic destabilisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u21	Of course, the relative tolerance has become tolerant. I won't give you any second. I'll cut it out of there. You should know that. It's for everyone. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to Mr. Stakoura, we understood that, since the New Democracy had brought Cocos into a previous bill, and now SYRIZA brings them along and will vote, everything will be fine and our financial system will be saved and our country will be saved. Once again the Greek people are called upon to pay the "marble", the criminal, fraudulent incompetence of a corrupt banking system and political bankers' system, employees of different interests, as well as their local subsistents: politicians, mass media, businessmen. It is called upon to give life to a dead banking system and automatically, at the same time, to grant them to Germany. Because that's what this is about. In addition, the Minister, Mr Chakalotos, yesterday in committee admitted it openly. Since 2008, the banks have been given EUR 203 billion in various forms, such as too many laws and FEKs - we have submitted them in the Minutes - and 233 billion state guarantees have been given for private banks, which is the largest percentage worldwide. It's a world record. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ultimately, of all these huge sums, rather their personal bank accounts save their homeland and banks. All these amounts went to sea-lovings of various types, to marine-loans parties, mainly of the New Democracy and PASOK. Over 3 billion euros owe these two parties and, of course, with absolutely no prospect of getting them back any bank and, in essence, getting them back to the Greek state that was borrowing to give the banks money. Seaweeds, which were taking business, friends, friends, and now seem to be some kind of buddies from them - to do dirty jobs or to collect mixtures of agreements for most of the German interests, those who now come and squeeze our fingers and ask us for everything. The loans are huge, which were given to canalarchs and the media, such as those given before the January elections. A huge sum was given to the SKAI television station, which, of course, cannot guarantee for anything, how much more, for the EUR 80-90 million it has taken once again, which will add to the other hundreds that it has received. Or the "MEGA CHANNEL", which had taken a few months ago tens of millions of euros with guarantees of jokes, scams, movies and some other crap. And all this on the back of the Greek people. And always under a protective cloak of impunity of a vicious circle of interests and people who have institutional roles and took them all out of oil. Like when we entered the first Memorandum and, in essence, the debts of the banks became the debt of an entire nation, borrowing the Greek people to pay off the banks and getting the debt on their back, with various 'rules' that you spent in an unsuspecting time, such as that famous amendment that we call it, and we will see it again, until some time, for the criminal courts to deal with these issues. After the vote ended, there was a late amendment by three Members of the New Democracy - to say their names for the history - and it is worth mentioning that Mr Tsumanis, Mr Tsumanis and Mr Stamenitis - were basically taking out the tables on the sea-lovings that mainly gave to their political parties. We must not talk about misrepresentative circuits which were smuggling cases - there are now various elements coming out - and the reward, of course, was to see top judges become MPs, ministers, direct them through submissives. But it's all coming out. At some point nothing remains hidden and justice will be dealt with - and it has already begun and dealt with - in various such matters. Not to mention the intentionally false tragic handling of our "saves" who did not anticipate various situations, such as that there should be an increase in equity in banks in 2014, before we reach these tragic points that we are today and once again we are called upon to vote, to vote - because we are not going to vote - recapitalisation of banks with various funny reasons. This is where I'm going to open a parentheses. Starting with the SYRIZA rapporteur's speech, he spoke about the necessity, he said that it is a pure recapitalisation that will help the banking system, that will fall money into the market, 'which, which will, I will, will, will, will, will,' that is, everything they said in the previous recapitalisations and which, of course, nothing was done at all. The real market never saw anything at all. I will say about the crimes of the CFI, which most of you have as a Bible. This is essentially a legal person of private law, which has taken a total of EUR 93 billion - either as money from the borrowed Greek people or in the form of bonds - to support private banks and nothing else and not to drop either cent or euro into the real economy, for which both the CFS and their supervisors should be cut, the politicians - even though the CFS is private law - and all those who led our country here that led it. We are constantly seeing the TFSF taking money, taking money, taking money, always by means of legislative acts, wide-ranging signature of the former President of the Republic, Mr Papoulias - from now on, we will also have the signature of the current President of the Republic, Mr Papoulou - and we all know how this has been done - and we all know how this has been done immediately after the stress tests to destroy banks again. And, of course, not to talk about irresponsible, suspect, not only irresponsible but also criminal and anti-national action by the European Central Bank, which is supposed to have been created to preserve the stability of the financial system, ensuring proper supervision of the capital markets and financial institutions. Do you see this anywhere? Isn't it accountable? Isn't she conspiring? Does the European Central Bank not have responsibility for what is happening to our financial system? It is. However, because it also serves private interests and no interest in "United Europe" and it is conscientious and has the irresponsible. Almost nothing of this hundred billion euro mess has gone to the real economy. This is where we open up a very small parentheses. By saying "real economy and investment", we do not mean various "enterprises" speculators, who only want to do any business to put money in their pockets. The real economy is the small and medium-sized ones, it is the farmers, it is the craftsmen, all those who actually support this country's economy. They were also the micrologics who gave you money and you ate them in one night, so nice, and once the opposition was "the bars" for the petty people, but now that they're in the government word. The story you serve to the Greeks, through the many benefiting, benefiting from the media banks, that Greece cannot borrow and that money goes to the market, is a lie. We saw that. There's nothing going on in the market at all. There is a lot of evidence - we submit it - where Greece had borrowed from the market with great comfort. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is anyone really going to answer? Oh, no. Will anyone answer for the zeroing of the shares of the Greek State, which I took as guarantees and which now are worth nothing at all? Oh, no. These, with the previous recapitalisation. Will anyone account for the fact that 92% of the loans we have taken as a country, to save the country, has it returned to lenders and only 8% of these hundreds of euros, is it here somewhere? Will anyone answer for the red loans? You are all saying that you are cut off for red loans, but of course the time has come when you will be able to hand them over to 10%, 20% of their value to the various cords, to the various funds, in order to make their game, and they could - and the banks of off the record, unofficially, but they cannot say so formally, because they are afraid of the curb - to settle a lot of them, to tire up directly with the borrowers, so that the borrowers too can not be destroyed and the banks can collect more than 10% of them from which they will give them to the various funds. Really, who will account for the fact that the EFSF credit contracts are unsubstantiated? Look for a signature. Who's gonna account for the capital controls? That's where you don't say a word. When will the capital controls be lifted? Nothing, absolutely. On the contrary, from what they show, there will probably also be a further tightening up of the size of this subject. Who will account for your actions, and for the predecessors with whom our country's debt led to more than 200% of GDP, where we competed with Japan, a country with very different data than Greece has? You led a people to poverty, migration, unemployment, suicide, destruction. Above all, the assignment of national sovereignty, with various stupid excuses, for which no one is to blame again. And to get to today's request, all this to lead the banks to total destruction, without the previous painful suffering to be taught. In the end, who are you with? However, you are not with the Greek people, because all your actions and actions show you exactly the opposite. You're not with the Greeks, you're not with Greece. You are with international loan sharks, you are with lenders, you are with those who are working, demanding and succeeding, unfortunately, the assignment of national sovereignty. You're with the pimps. I'm saying this because some of the previous rapporteurs - I think SYRIZA - said you're not with pimps. With your will or without them you are, follow them faithfully to the letter, and you have also become king's king's king. The Constitution of our country stipulates that final judicial decisions are the law of the state. There are hundreds of these in favour of borrowers in relation to their conflicts with the banks. You should have implemented a policy of protecting Greek borrowers and found a way to ease them, because by alleviating them you would also ease the banking system. We've been through this before. One of the conditions to qualify for a loan as burdensome and illegal is when the lender knows that the borrower cannot repay. By releasing a borrowed Greek citizen from an unreasonable, illegal loan, he will have the financial capacity to move and the minimum money he has in his pocket will turn it back to the local market so that there will be a little recovery. Really, why didn't you do what Iceland did, which, having a corresponding economic big problem, like Greece, put above all our homeland and then the banks? It even reached the point of recently putting twenty - six bankers in prison. Here, instead, you see all the bankers, and you have them, and you have them again and you have them. Mr Tsakalotos admitted yesterday - and there is also in the contract, if anyone reads it in detail, others have said so - that the state will no longer have any supervision over the banks. We are giving them everything in substance. We'll borrow, give them money for our lenders to run. We're talking about incredible things, absurd, anti-national, destructive. You don't mind. I imagine you will be aware that in a summer study not only in Greece, but throughout the European Union, 72% of Europeans think that the European Union is on the wrong track and that if we continue, 72% will reach 100% and at some point the European Union will have absolutely no future. The solution to save what can be saved? All bankrupt banks should be stacked, nationalised and with specific legislation, as can be done, to salvage what is done by the hundreds of thousands of borrowers, because our first concern is the citizens of this country, is the country, and then it is the international loan sharks and the 'guns'. We remind everyone, older and young, of those who have signed alpha or beta in all these agreements and warn them that as water always finds a way out, the law will find its way and you will answer to the criminal courts for your conscious actions, your decisions to grant national sovereignty in order to constantly save bankrupt private banks. Clearly we are voting against this bill and we will always be in the front line in any case the loan sharks go to get a Greek citizen's livelihood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and two educational sessions from the High School of Paros. We welcome you to the House and thank you for coming with seven - eight Boforts, if I'm not mistaken. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ioannis Maniatis, special speaker of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important piece of legislation in the form of urgency. Before we begin, it is interesting to see why it is urgent and why it is a great piece of legislation. I should like to address the Members of the Com mittee and ask: If any previous government had brought the question of the recapitalisation of the banks under the urgency procedure, that is to say, published at 10.00 p.m. on Friday the legislature and the committee should start after four hours and the next day to come to a debate in the House, that would recommend or not constitute a violation of the Constitution, a derogation of the Rules of Procedure of this House and anything else you can imagine? I say all this because what matters is that we all learn from our recent history and, above all, above all, the current government must learn from its own mistakes. Let us accept the urgency procedure. Is the recapitalisation of the banks a favour, grace, offer to bankers and large capital, or is it an offer to the national economy, micro-enterprises and all those who support society? In previous recapitalisations we heard from the current government, SYRIZA, that the bank recapitalisation covers big capital and does great favors to bankers. Do you do the same today? I want to think you don't do the same. I want to believe that in your mind it is what is in our minds, the protection of the national economy and, above all, the protection of Greek micro depositors. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of strange phenomena begin to appear again. The government and the honourable Member are being taken over, because it seems that by voting on this bill we will avoid the closure of the deposits. But the danger of a deposit haircut, you brought him in. Your policy has led to the possibility of hairdrying the deposits of the Greek depositors. So do not stress the danger that we must prevent the closure of the deposits and that is why we must discuss the urgency procedure. They are the results of your own policy. A month ago, no one was talking about a deposit haircut. It's important now to see where we are today. A few days ago the report of the House's budget office was published, which is a trick for policy that has been pursued since the beginning of the year until today. And the recent statements by both the Prime Minister and government officials show that they have not realised the seriousness of their political responsibilities, which, after a five-year battalion, had become austerity, had now begun to take the first breaths and had begun to show the first signs of recovery at a positive rate of growth. We have been through a recession before, and there is again the arrogance and the presumption that only the rates of recession are lower than those originally calculated. Question Politics: Who is responsible for the Greek state's obligation to make progress today in the recapitalisation of banks? Are the bad bankers responsible? Are the bad borrowers responsible? Is the bad European Central Bank responsible? Are the Martians responsible? Who's responsible? I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but unfortunately in this third recapitalisation we have been driven by an unresolved, destructive, disastrous policy of the former government's financial staff, which I would like to point out was considered by the Prime Minister as an asset of the Greek Government. So we have now come to blame the European Central Bank for shutting down the banks, making the capital controls and not the government's policy for months now that we will be there. Do you feel, Minister, that you have political responsibilities for the fact that in the last few months, in the months that you are actually ruling, there have been a withdrawal from the Greek banking system of about EUR 50 billion, yes or no? And, of course, do you feel that you have some political responsibility for the fact that the government does not trust either an investor or an institution and that is why they are obliging you to accept clauses which, as I will say, are then gratuitous for the Hellenic Republic? The rapporteur for the Cooperatives has tried to explain to us why the last recapitalisation, the previous one, the second recapitalisation. Evidently he has forgotten what the SYRIZA executive said, the President of the Financial Stability Fund, a very serious SYRISA official, Michalis at Kathimerini 8-7-2015, a few months ago: "Greek banks are sufficiently capitalised according to the ESS and the European Central Bank on the basis of all the tests". Indeed, Mr. Michailis recommends that we do not confuse capital adequacy with liquidity. And Mrs Daniel Noui, head of the European Central Bank's supervisory mechanism at Wall Street Journal on 13 May, states that the Greek banks were never better equipped to deal with the financial crisis. Therefore, from May - June 2015 until now, the need for recapitalisation results from specific political initiatives, destructive policies of the current government. There's a question. At what stage, at what level did the current government receive the Greek banking system? Let me just remind you of three figures. In the Greek banks with the previous recapitalisation, that is, the Greek people had paid, through the Financial Stability Fund, 25 billion euros. I forget the 11 billion of CFS that Mr. Varoufakis with incredible generosity gave the lenders, because then Greece didn't want money, only wanted pride. So we gave as a Greek people, as Greece, 25 billion to recapitalise the banks in 2012. In May 2014, shortly before the European elections, the stock exchange value of systemic banks was about 25 billion. We had recovered all the money that the Greek citizens had invested in the banks. On December 31, 2014, 25 billion have become 19.5 billion as a result of liquidity and instability policy. Today - it is not literal, it is transported because yesterday we had a huge fall because of government mistakes on the Stock Exchange - a week ago the stock exchange value of the Greek banks was 4.7 billion. With simple words in 2015, the Greek banks lost 15 billion euros in stock exchange value. The Greek citizens, therefore, lost the property they had borrowed to banks of EUR 15 billion. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we must add what is required in the event of the evil scenario reintroduced by the Greek people through the Financial Stability Fund, after private investors are involved. There's the bad script. We all hope that it will not be implemented and that recapitalisation will only take place with private funds that can reach the other 10 billion euros. I wish it wouldn't. No one, however, feels the need to apologise for what at least 15 billion plus another 10 has perhaps been charged to the Greek people, as if they were not due, by a policy which led to the devastatement of the Greek banking system? And because we all remember the common shares and Cocos which are considered by the government as an important step, let us not forget that it voted against when the relevant regulation came in mid-2014. You found it ready and simply implement something that you refused when you were opposition. There is another issue I wonder if he has been employed by the government. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Just because the partners do not trust the Greek government today, we have been brought to the attention of a piece of legislation, what we are called to vote on, with which the Greek banking system is actually left behind. And it goes without saying, because in fact, in all the supervisory mechanisms of the Greek banking system, the final reason is the three institutions represented. It is of minor importance that the representatives of the Greek side participate. In fact, for the future, surveillance, evaluation, future movements of the Greek banking system will now be decided by the institutions, namely creditors. Of course I must say that, in judging by the behaviour of the government in recent months and the absolute partyisation, the violation of all the basic principles of independent principles that we have seen, I do not know if any dignity, transparency in the banking system and transparency in the supervision of the Greek banks are better than to trust the current government. And, of course, there is an issue relating to the future of the subsidiaries of the Greek banks in the Balkans and neighbouring regions. Do we know what's gonna happen? I'm afraid we don't know. Ladies and gentlemen, we as a Democratic Institution PASOK - DIMAR will not behave as SYRIZA has been doing all the previous years. We won't pick up the plaques on the sidewalks, we won't denounce the government for stateless men, we won't ask that elbows be set up and some go to Goudi. We are a responsible political force that will stand with a sense of national understanding on the great question of the recapitalisation of the Greek banks. And we do, because the Greek banks, like all over the world, are the feeder of the real economy. We are doing so, because we want liquidity to be available to small and medium-sized enterprises at long last. And we do, above all, to protect borrowers from red loans. We've got a clean red line of ours. We will not tolerate any auctioning of the first home and will not tolerate the granting of loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and be sold to foreign funds. With these thoughts, with these positions, we state that we are voting in favour of the bill at first, but we want to see the possible improvements that the Minister will make, because our concern is to protect the Greek small depositors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u25	The next special speaker, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. We're not going to deal with criticizing the government about what SYRIZA used to say before when it was opposition and what he's doing now. It is an easy criticism and meaninglessness. Because the problem is not that this bill is the result of an insolvency of SYRIZA or the action of some dark powers - this dark concept - which is being guided by our country, toe, the Greek state, but, in fact, we are dealing with a key bill dealing with the heart, the core, the capitalist system, which is subject to the ironic laws of the capitalist economy. And from this point of view, then, we want to raise a number of key issues. First of all, why is this recapitalisation done? Are these issues inconsistent with the management of the current or previous government? We say that the need for recapitalisation of banks, which does not exist only in Greece - in fact, stress tests are carried out in all the banks of the European Union, but also not only in the United States - is the result of the very capitalist crisis, which, on the one hand, has the effect of depreciating labour power through the reduction of wages and the destruction of a series of composite labour and insurance rights, in order to make the labour force and, of course, also the transfer of weight to the people's populations, the weights of fiscal consolidation more and more cheap. At the same time, however, the capitalist crisis also results in the depreciation of overcompensated capital. The expression of this depreciation of overcompensated funds is red loans. And the more these depreciated funds expressed in red loans are not destroyed, the more the need for the capitalisation of the financial system remains. Of course, the dispute that we have seen in recent years for the management of red loans is not all about, but a very specific category. And at the heart of this struggle are the red business loans. Why is there this steep intercourse? For of course how red business loans will be managed - what solution will be given - it is related to whether the ownership of business groups will change hands. We are observing a controversy about red loans for example in the economy tourism sector, which is a sector that is at the forefront of the investment interest of Greek and foreign business groups, but also of the priorities given by the prevailing bourgeoisie for the specific features of the new development model, such as those of the bourgeoisie class are expressed in the current government policy. As far as the other part of the red loans for highly indebted households is concerned, not only will there be no relief of them, but, on the contrary, the result of this debate will be that we have even more unfavourable development, more anti-popular than these few and insufficient conditions of protection arising from the Katseli Act. We say this because the JRC had tabled a specific proposal for a law on the protection of the highly indebted people's households, the self-employed, but also the poor farmers, where not only did the JRC provide for a haircut of the interest and the tall land, but also a haircut of the capital itself, the loan itself, that is to say, which they had received in order to be able either to cover housing needs or any farming activity that farmers had, because of the capitalist crisis, can no longer face these consequences. Of course, the proposal for a law also concerned the protection of the unemployed, their first residence and their farming activity. But this proposal for a JRC law, not only does the government discuss it, but, on the contrary, it is preparing to further reduce any inadequate measures to protect the Katseli law. In this respect, therefore, the need to recapitalise the financial system is the result of the capitalist crisis itself, but, at the same time, of the operation of the capitalist economy itself and of Greece's participation in Euro-Union integration. The main pillar of this integration is freedom of movement of capital. In the context of this free movement of capital we have seen a very long, huge outflow of deposits from the Greek financial system in order to find more secure shelters for the big depositors. This deposit outflow has shaped a negative portfolio in the financial system. From this point of view, the large depositors, who have secured all their deposits by transferring them abroad, and have also put their lira into the need to recapitalise the banks, will not suffer any consistency. On the contrary, they will again be called upon to pay the broken recapitalisation of the people's layers, the people's family, as it already pays them. And they pay them right through the so-called 'capital control' process, which in particular had a negative impact on them, either the micro-depositors who cannot exploit their deposits, the pensioners and the employees, or the self-employed and the professionals for any of their professional activities. Of course, they will also be invited to pay through the increase in government debt as part of the State participation in the increase in the bank's share capital due to the recapitalisation. Secondly, we believe that the purpose of the recapitalisation is important. The recapitalisation is part of the government's roadmap of exiting the crisis and recovering the capitalist economy. Isn't that right, Minister? What, then, are these requirements? This road map, what does it predict? First, cheap labour force. Secondly, new sectors of activity in over-accumulated funds through privatisation, market liberalisation. Third, tax and investment incentives to business groups. And, fourthly, the resolution of the financial system, so that there can be faith and liquidity in the business groups, so that the loans can finance their investment projects. So the false distinction between, on the one hand, the financial system and the real economy is confirmed. The financial system is the heart of the capitalist system itself, the capitalist economy. Secondly, the bank is not separated by medieval walls from the other business groups. They are also business groups. Banks shall participate in the capital funds of other business groups or more comprehensive business groups, multi-climate, may own large packages of the financial system and control it. Therefore, recapitalisation is carried out for the needs of monopolistic groups and not for the protection and fulfilment of popular needs. We have talked about the protection of highly indebted households that do not come from anywhere. And, of course, satisfying people's needs cannot be based on increasing overcharge, through loans. We say that satisfying people's needs must come through work, through high wages, through the recovery of the enormous losses which the working class and the rest of the people's population have had over the past period and, of course, through the change of ownership in the means of production and their socialisation, that is to say, a change in the model of the economy, a change of power in a radical direction and freedom from the European Union. The third question is how the government chooses to proceed with the recapitalisation. The debate, which is taking place, as we appreciate, is about who will determine the administrations on the substance. So there is an ambiguity in this bill, which will be dealt with either by the Ministerial Council decision tomorrow or by ministerial decisions. This ambiguity enables the government to have a flexibility in the bazaars that it is doing with the current bank owners, with the banks' ambitious investors, with the same priorities as the government itself, as well as the European Union's own priorities as a whole. From this point of view, the debate is taking place between what form state intervention will take, whether it will be with Cocos - these privileged bonds - or common shares. Turns out the government's plan is to be 70% to 80% Cocos and the remaining 20% to be the common shares with voting rights to increase the bank's share capital. Why? Because the government, apparently, seeks to facilitate the entry of private investors into the capital increase of investors and, of course, the residence of banks in private capitalists. However, even if this does not happen, i.e. even if we have state-owned capitalism in the banks, this state-owned capitalist property will be temporary. And it will be temporary because the government's aim, proclaimed, is to clear up these banks and be able to privatise them. After all, this is also provided by SYRIZA - ANEL government, where Article 57 talks about public capital support. Paragraph 2 says that - and this will be done - the participation of the Greek State is directly transferred to the private sector as soon as commercial and financial conditions allow it. Article 58 accordingly speaks of temporary public control. So the whole debate is about how the banks can be liquidated and privatised. Of course, the draft law provides for the greater involvement and involvement of the European Union in this recapitalisation and the institutions of the European Union, such as who defines the members of the Financial Stability Fund, the CFS where three members are designated by the European Fund, by the ESM. It therefore provides for greater direct intervention by the ESM and the European Commission in the recapitalisation process, as well as participation by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a Civil War Agency in fact by the procedures it puts in, the direct intervention and increase of banks' equity. So through this process, through the recapitalisation process, the state debt will increase in this part of state participation in the increase of equity and the Greek people will pay again. Really, what about these 39,000,000 euros of the previous recapitalisation and which have been redundant? Who's already paying? They are already paying them, through the increase of government debt, the popular layers. And the fourth point - with which I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - is that this draft law includes a new part which is the non-systemic banks, namely Attica Bank and the cooperative banks. It includes them in the recapitalisation process subject to the entry of a strategic investor, who will, of course, receive management of the cooperative banks themselves, or of the Attica Bank, so that the role of the Mechanics Fund, the TSMEDE, is now the main shareholder in the Attica Bank. So the Mechanics Fund reserves are going to go to the rain, and they will be dismantled. And here it is confirmed where the "floods" of the other forces, other parties than the JV, in the previous period of time, are leading to the guarantee of the Mechanics Fund because it is participating and directly managed by a bank. The second conclusion we have to draw is where all these phobia about the 'progressive' movement of the cooperative movement in the context of capitalism. It is an incomplete form of economy and entangles the people in their participation through the cooperative share, in a form of economic, business, of which the function is directly related to the private economic criteria and not to the logic of meeting the needs of the cooperatives. The result of this incomplete form is that at some point these cooperatives must be transformed into anonymous companies, so that they can operate under the capitalist system. We have already noticed this with the agricultural cooperatives, which have become anonymous companies, and we are now seeing it with the cooperative banks. This will lead to a further concentration, because they are already talking about takeovers and mergers between cooperative banks - and this process will accelerate with the participation of the strategic investor - and thus the overall restructuring of the financial system. Really, does the government ensure by this law that at least the attack on bankers through changes in labour relations, through the new forms of collective redundancies, this voluntary exit, and the intensification of their work, will not escalate? Finally, we expect, Mr Ministers, that you implement your commitment yesterday to the workers of cooperative banks, which were brought to the fore. We expect this to be restored next time so that these workers, who are currently in the air, can join the National Bank or the banks that absorb the 'good' part of cooperative banks. From this point of view, it is clear that the Communist Party of Greece is voting against both the draft law in principle and the articles. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u27	Mr Theocharis Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are gathered here to save the banks today, October 31, which is World Saving Day, something forgotten now. We can't even pay the bills in our country, not save it. Yesterday I read you a comment from the Prime Minister on bankers who saved 'the others' from the Faliment. Here's another one, again by the Prime Minister, because that's your logic. Support for banks and big businessmen at the expense of the social majority. Now is it different? That's what you're telling us. Why? Because you have nothing to do with big business! Really? The other day, what did Mr. Kammenos say to us again? How did he exchange sms with an editor who has interests in the field of medicine for the composition of the Ministerial Council? Is that what he told us? And he hasn't given up yet? Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, support him? Do you have a drami left, a drip, a consciousness rod? What would you do, in other words, if the Prime Minister showed us in the House of Sms with the owner of a channel or newspaper, where he was talking about the Ministerial Council? Is that right? Would you feel comfortable? Would you support?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u29	It bothers you to denounce it, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u30	No, it doesn't bother us to report it. It bothers us that he did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u31	Looks like it's bothering you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u32	We've been fine so far!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u33	What else has the Prime Minister told us? Without clearing the risky loans from bank portfolios, what you're doing is throwing more taxpayers' money into a barrel with no bottom. With the bill, do you have a solution? Mr Balauras said that red loans have been launched since 2011, and that you are now giving a solution. He didn't explain the solution, though. In the articles of the bill there is no word for red loans. So where's the solution? And why did they launch? Just because of the crisis? Not only. Although the crisis has obviously made too many of our fellow humans weak to meet their obligations. But it's also the Katseli law that set them off. Protection of the weak is an obligation and imposed twice in a period of systemic crisis. But when protection is unconditional and unconditional, then it sows destruction in the banks too, changing the behaviour of borrowers. Many of our fellow citizens, instead of paying the house - began to choose to leave the house unpaid, since they were not afraid of being taken home - paid the card and the consumer card with higher interest rates. The result was instead of the EUR 15,000 consumer blushing the 150,000 euro housing in the banks. That's how red loans are launched, so we come, with taxpayers' money, over and over and over and over to the banks. When we don't pay attention, that's what we do. We take a problem of borrowers and a good reason to protect the weak and make them a problem for depositors and taxpayers. And we run from behind with the tongue outside to protect them as well. Of course, the very lady of this law, the lady of the money, your party choice, is supported by the Minister's amendment yesterday so as not to be assessed like the other administrations of the banks. It is a special amendment not to be evaluated. Let's talk about this. And you want to convince us that with party choices you will do with the corruption of administrations and businessmen. Foreigners took the banks - as I proved you yesterday in the committee - but, apparently, you will fight with nails and teeth to keep them under party control. Why? Tell us why. To control the flow of loans? To get sea-loving, like other parties? Tell us. The River has not even borrowed 1 euro and is not afraid. Why does it need to be recapitalised, ladies and gentlemen? Because you have strengthened the uncertainty, as the Budget Office of the House tells you. You turned us into a recession from anemic growth. You've turned us into an increase in unemployment from a minor reduction. You have closed the banks out of misrepresentation or conscious misled by Prime Minister Tsipras from the then Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis. You received the value of the Greek people, the shares of the HFSF in the banks, and you lost within eight months over 10 billion of the Greek people. Over 10 billion! If there is corruption in privatisation - as you have been telling us all these years - and if you get it all, you want it forty years - I've already proved it to you since the summer - to give back to the Greek people what you lost to him in eight months. You got worse within eight months of the economy, banks the loans. But you are telling us that all this is worth it, because you have reduced the objectives of the primary surpluses we have to achieve. Really? If what you have been saying for so many years is true, it is better not to make a hundred euros of austerity, because we are going to gain more, that is, a hundred euros in growth. That's what you've been telling us for so many years. That's why you've taken the world out so long. So, now, with your successful negotiation, you have brought us 150 euros of recession and saved 100 euros of austerity. So much success! You have all been invalidated as a result of lies or incompetence. Pick! Ladies and gentlemen, we must save the money of the Greek people and the grand depositors - I will add 'and the grand depositors' to what Mr Maniatis said, not just the small depositors - which today is the small and medium-sized enterprise. The big and the big have them outside. That's the big storekeeper. The bill is the first, inappropriate until a few months ago, necessary step today. We can only support what can prevent the closure of the deposits. After all, it was a precondition that we always said, even before the elections in Genoa, that is to say, not the haircut and not the extra tax on deposits. 'The State is not a joint owner in our deposits'. That's what we were talking about then. And things you didn't say, you're saying it now. This bill is a good translation. You were late to bring it, but it wasn't entirely my fault, as I strictly accused you yesterday, and I did my self-criticism. It is also the foreigners who wrote it to you who are also the fault of translation, who force you to be corrected by legislative improvements, and so you have delayed dangerously. Oh, yes! Finish now with the cabinet's actions. Clear the framework to complete the recapitalisation correctly. I told you yesterday about the dangers, not to repeat them here. Ladies and gentlemen, recapitalisation is a major step towards solvency, restoring confidence, and above all towards ensuring stability in the banking system. The following questions, however, arise: Question One: Non-performing loans, the so-called NPLs, have reached 100,000,000,000 to 106,000,000 euros. And the question is, what funds can banks recover? The 10,000,000,000 to 20,000,000 to five in-depth, six-year-olds, is a realistic goal or out-of-real? Will the banks be able to manage the huge problem of the NPLs? Question two: Banks have 121,000,000 deposits and 207,000,000 loans. That means a liquidity gap of 86,000,000. How will the EUR 86 billion be covered? With the recapitalisation, the banks will use the ESM bonds and the new funds to reduce ELA. The substance doesn't change, though. The loan-to-deposit gap is huge and unresolved at this stage. That's why the Capital Controls can't leave unless the liquidity returns to the banking system from abroad and the folds. Question 3: The European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, will invest funds in Greek banks and the EU Competition Committee will closely monitor the Greek banks. What does that mean? Will the restructuring footage, the so-called restructuring plans, fully change? Based on converging bankers’ estimates the following will occur within three years, but as usual with forward features: Reduction of stores by four hundred in Greece. New volunteering programs out of four thousand workers. Forty-four thousand, that is, there will be forty thousand bankers left. Do you have anything to answer about? Question Four: Banks will have capital adequacy, but they will not have liquidity to finance the national economy. The banks in the next three to five years will deal with their past, i.e. problematic loans. When will they deal with the future of the Greek economy, with the granting of new loans? Ladies and gentlemen, we are still far from the solution. Hurry up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u35	What do you want, Mr. Papachristopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u36	I have heard the resignation of the President of the Independent Greeks and I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u37	Here, you have the floor for a minute, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u38	I want to remind the special speaker that falsification of reality sometimes suits some. And I would point out: I do not know if, for the first time, the President-in-Office of the Council heard that the businessmen once came up not only with ministers but also with Prime Ministers. And slavery in this world of businessmen - and I don't include everyone - has finally ended. He had the courage of his opinion, therefore, the Chief, the President of the Independent Greeks to make public and not to keep this involvement from being a big player. And it is for us, and I believe that this is how the whole House interpreted it, except for the speaker of the "Potamio". That is all I wanted to say, Mr President. Thank you for giving time for the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u39	All right, let's move on. Mr. Katsikis has the floor. I would like to inform you that with Mr Katsiantonis, with whom special speakers will close their speeches, we will be ten, not more than fifteen minutes apart from the initial programming I have given you. Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are debating today is extremely important because it concerns what constitutes insecurity and anxiety of the citizens of Greece, with what this entails. Recapitalisation means liquidity for enterprises. And business isn't on its own. They have back workers who fight for whether they have a job tomorrow so they can get their bread. Recapitalisation means that there is a risk of the deposit haircut. It means that the end of the capital controls is under way. We should therefore support recapitalisation in order to convince foreign investors that with their own money they should also contribute to it. Let us remember that a few days ago the President of France, François Holland, was here with a team of investors to support what we are discussing today and in the end we will vote on, namely the recapitalisation of the banks. Of course the question of who caused it is mistaken. What I would like to stress is that this is not the first time that the banks' capital needs are strengthened with many, many billions. In the past, and of course, the administrations of the previous governments and the bad policy of the past have contributed to the recapitalisation of the banks. The political expression of those politicians who said that with the election of SYRIZA they will make their money abroad. Reminds of one of the previous, old years, "Buy shares, play on the Stock Exchange" - see Simitis - Papantoniou - "to win more". And that was the political tombstone of the Greek economies. Of course not all those who today from this Step of the House teach that policy which, on the one hand, forbids or rather calls today's recapitalisation something bad for the country and for the country, while not exercising their self-criticism, declaring their responsibilities for the recapitalisations of the past. We have specific evidence and I will speak below. Let me mention some of the articles that we Independent Greeks consider to be of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u41	Mr Katsiki, let me interrupt you for two seconds and give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u42	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd section of the High School of Paros. Welcome back to the beautiful Paros! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u44	Article 2 broadens the possibilities and means available to the fund in order to achieve its task as best as possible, i.e. to strengthen the Greek banking system in the interests of the public interest. The public interest is also shielded in Article 3, the aim of which is to regulate matters relating to the property of the fund. With the new regulations, we ensure more efficient management of the fund's assets and thus ensure the interests and property of the public. Article 4 on which I will speak a little later, as it is a bourgeois of opposition, as was said yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs, establishes the new procedure for the selection of the members of the fund and their ongoing evaluation, so that we can be sure that their duties are best served. The Selection Committee assesses the members of the administration of the Fund and has the right to remove those who are unable to fulfil their obligations. Is the committee functioning arbitraryly? No, of course, as it is obliged to report on its actions to the Minister of Finance and in addition to the Board of Directors at least twice a year, the Greek Parliament - which had never been done before. This strengthens and safeguards transparency, which is a top priority for SYRIZA - ANEL. The regulation of Article 7 is extremely important, according to which the fund now has full voting rights, which will be exercised as shareholder - which has not been the case until now and is the first time. At the same time, Article 10 allows the fund to assess the administrations of credit institutions in the light of best international practices. Finally, Articles 2 and 3 set out the order of classification of claims against credit institutions in order to respond to the exceptional public interest, to more effectively regulate the insolvency of banks and to shield systemic stability. Yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs, during the debate on the draft law, no representative of the parties that held power in the past did his own self-criticism about the relations between the political system and the banking system. And that's what we're paying today. In the SYRIZA - ANEL government, we do not want the banks that have led us to the economic crisis. We want a banking system linked to the real economy that will finance growth. For the reasons of the bank Run, look in the minutes for the position of the parties' officers who were in power and their public statements. The need for change is strong and recognised by the citizens. The rapporteurs of counter-population are trying to convince that for all suffering the seven-month SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence is responsible. We call on them to respect the agony of the world and the great struggle that citizens are giving every day. The aim of the Government is to recapitalise the Greek banks under negotiation to be the latter. Until now, the Greek taxpayer has contributed in too many ways to the rescue of the Greek banking system and this cannot continue. The Greek people must understand that we are going to a new recapitalisation, because the previous ones, which were the result of the previous governments, failed. The previous recapitalisations were fruitless because, on the one hand, they did not take into account the real economy with red loans, etc. and, on the other hand, they have not taken into account the administrations of the banks, which are largely responsible for the failure. In fact, the level of failure is reflected in the statistics I have presented yesterday in my position in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, the proportion of non-performing loans from 5% in September 2009 reached 34.2% in September 2015. The reversal of this indicator has so far not taken place, with main conscientious previous governments and bank administrations. The immediate result was the continuous recording of insecure forecasts, leading to all operational gains of the four systemic banks in support of the interconnected political, business and media system. Furthermore, by adopting the draft law, the Bank’s capital support process is immediately initiated, which should have been completed in 2015 in order to avoid prejudice to deposits. I heard colleagues in the committee yesterday appealing against Article 4a. Indeed, while it was pleasing that a majority of the parties' representatives voted positively at first instance, there were reactions to Article 4a, which the Selection Committee refers to, and which is essentially their only objection to the bill, arguing that the three members of the committee are appointed by creditors. Firstly, I would like to remind them that we either like - and say truths - or we do not like, we lend ourselves, gentlemen, of counter-population. And we borrow because you failed. Secondly, every cooperation is aimed at positive results. With this move we want to regain the confidence of the investors, whom you have taken care of with your successively wrong and vile policies to drive out of the country. Stop undermining our efforts. I urge you, even at the very last moment, to show a sense of responsibility towards the Greek citizens who have honoured you with their vote. The most crucial point in the negotiations is the next day. That is why, now along with the recapitalisation, we will immediately proceed to dealing with red loans with a policy framework that protects the first residence and prevents the sale of loans. Because business loans are the business, production capacity and employment. In fact, the Financial Stability Fund will monitor the management of red loans. In this way we believe that we will put an end to the unaltered policies of the past. The process of discussion and voting of the bill is not perfect. We must, however, take all our responsibilities into account and take into account the pressure conditions of the lenders. We call on all political forces to take a responsible stand, as they have so far done in this great struggle that our country gives. Moreover, the Independent Greeks will stand to the extent of the circumstances and vote for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u45	We reach the last special speaker, George Katsiantoni, whom I call on him to come to Stepma. I would like to inform you that after that, if a parliamentary representative wishes to speak, please inform the Bureau, given that the main ministers have asked to speak later this afternoon. Otherwise, we are entering the speakers. The first speakers are Mr Socrates Famelos, Mr Karaoglou, Mr Michos and Mr Koutsoukos. These are the first four speakers. Mr. Katsiantoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the draft law that the banks will actually be under the full custody of the Financial Stability Fund. This in itself is a necessary evil. The banks in the modern Western societies of the free economy were not built to operate with patraches of state origin, because, although at the standard level, they are a legal person of private law and their way of functioning is of direct relevance to the State. For example, the bill expressly states that the Minister of Finance may decide to request the reimbursement of funds from the Fund to the Greek State, in accordance with the provisions of Article 12(6). It is also foreseen that the assets of the fund may be invested in cash deposits at the Bank of Greece only on the basis of a decision of the Minister of Finance. Furthermore, after the end of the operation of the Financial Stability Fund, capital is attributed, and assets and liabilities, automatically to the Greek State, which is determined as a universal successor. In view of all this, I have to say: it is clear that we are moving towards a temporary, state-run economy. We, as a political formation of the Centre, believe in a free economy, in an economy without state suffering. We are not excited by such ideas and practices, not only because we do not believe in the model of the state-owned economy, but also because we do not have full confidence in the capacities and abilities of the current government. As a necessary evil, then, we are considering the current draft law and on that basis we are considering it. Unfortunately, the economic environment in our country, as it has shaped in recent decades, has led us to an obvious deadlock. The private economy and private funds of the banks have been wings. The easy solution is to blame the so-called foreign blackmailers and all kinds of atmospheric victims. The difficult solution, however, is to work together in productive terms so that we do not get the disasters done again. It is clear from your explanatory statement that this is the last attempt to restore the economy. That's true. Actually, we're already on the cliff, and we're just looking for a branch to hold. We hope with the recapitalisation simply that this branch will be strong and not rotten, and that is why the Centro-Conservation Union has fully respected its reservations about the final effectiveness of the recapitalisation. At the moment, then, the Financial Stability Fund is called upon to ensure the banks' capital adequacy. The management boards of the banks are therefore also to a maximum extent called upon to monitor the management boards of the banks. An indication is that Article 7 confirms its full voting rights, which will be exercised as shareholder in each credit institution. The fund itself - and this is good - will be, as you say us, internationally competitive executives with high qualifications, who will be chosen by an independent selection of high prestiges. We are very concerned about the composition of this independent authority. While good intentions are expressed in the draft law, experience has shown us exactly the opposite. Our trust in you has been irreversibly shaken. We don't give you a white check. Our temporary support to the current bill will only apply in the future when the work of both this independent committee and the Financial Stability Fund will be measurable with a positive sign. Only if we talk well, with tangible results, will we continue to give you our support in this direction. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, things have finally been serious. Until first, the Financial Stability Fund was able, in view of absolutely critical situations, to provide a bank institution with a financial amount as an advance or, as is more subtle in the bill, temporary liquidity enhancement. The possibility of pre-paid assistance to the banks in accordance with the new draft is abolished. The reason is very clearly that this advance is not in line with European legislation. Even so, this minimal flexibility is also evaporating and is even more serious in Article 8, where the fund's ability to sell to banks at a price below the purchase price is abolished. Our partners are obviously burnt to the batter, and of course now yoghurt is blowing. And that seems even more to the explicit prediction that the Selection Committee of the General Council and the Executive Committee of the Financial Stability Fund will report to all the European institutions: the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the European Stability Mechanism. A copy of the report will also be submitted to the Euroworking Group. So we haven't just been to state custody. It is recognised at international level that our state is not able in itself to manage such critical situations. Our supposed blackmailers lend a typically and substantially unreliable state, with the sole aim of cohesioning the European economy. And to say it more simply, we are no longer being borrowed for any economic reason. Both the profit from borrowing interest rates and their general benefits from the Greek economy do not seem to be any big cellar. They lend us exclusively for political reasons, because we are a member of the European family and because there is the possibility of a break in the heart of the European Union if a member with alpha or beta is cut off from it. No European official, no European leader would want such a retina to be loaded on his neck. Ladies and gentlemen, the fair is over. It is indeed our last attempt, but this is not an attempt to avoid collapse, it is not just a development effort. The development must be pursued on our own. Even in this suffocating financial environment we have often proposed specific things for the reconstruction of the economy and business. This reconstruction even overshadowed access to the sources of borrowing. The fact that companies and legal persons of all kinds are no longer lended easily is a small wound to the monster of the general economic and political situation in our country. Please let our economy flourish. Be trusted in the private sector and do not interfere like a few people. In this case, where you arrived at us, yes, there is no solution but to save the depositors' money. That is why our answer now is affirmative. However, our provisional response to the current bill contains equally serious reservations. Do not even betray this little temporary confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Please, Mr. Famelos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a minimum of time from the elections and from the government's programming statements and within a dense parliamentary and governmental work, the SYRIZA Government is going on with the Independent Greeks and the support of the Greens to very important changes in our country. Our objective is one, a single objective, a dynamic objective, tomorrow's objective for Greece: productive and administrative reconstruction, the return of social justice, deserve and equality, the relief of the sick people's social strata. The recapitalisation of the banks is an element of this solid and publicly announced programme, which was submitted by election and approved by the Greek people. It is a key element of the single roadmap, which we have also tabled in the programme statements, and it is obviously very closely linked to the first assessment that opens the door to Greece for the debt debate, but at the same time it is very importantly linked to the issues of red loans, development law, financing the economy, the real economy, and the relaunching and returning to work in our country. In this context, it is necessary to have as a real instrument for financing the economy and growth sound and with a specific orientation banks. But I think we have to make it clear that this project of ours has nothing to do with neoliberal and dismantled - if you want - a disguised plan that you have been carrying out so far. We do not aim at the same banks, we do not save the same banks, because quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, we aim to have banks first of all viable, to have banks that will finance the economy equally and on an equal footing, to have banks that are transparent, to have banks that do not serve the complexion. For example, we aim to have banks that do not give 'black' loans to the channels. We also want to have banks that don't give credit to the parties and unscrupulously. Why is it that who forgets the 200 million of the Agricultural Bank in PASOK and New Democracy, the one of the Agricultural Bank that you gave it within two years of 5 billion to give it to another bank for a few million? These banks are not our scenario. That's your script. We're not saving these banks. These banks do not need Greece. These banks were part of the old interplanetary system, which only wanted to renew its own micropartial power, downgrade Greece increasingly and lower, reduce production, survive ministerial and parliamentary chairs and some banking. It was obviously the media system, banks, UAEs and - why not? - and a little smuggling, there's to support - if you want - the black market and the black job! We do not propose solutions that despise public property. We cannot plead for a scenario like what you have done, put public money to bankers and have no right to decide on the management of equity and the decisions of banks. That was your scenario. We are not recapitulating these conditions, because very simply all of what you have done so far has devastated the economy. Greece has often listened with interest to the slogan that "banks will be the engine of growth". But was it really like that? Because we have been listening yesterday and today to the House that the untrustworthy administration of the last period has led to this situation in the banks. How reliable was the political system so far in the management of the banks? Is it true that there was a Minister who, in two years' time, recommended two different laws for the recapitalisation of banks? Was the Minister - did he also need Vice-President of the Government - who, while he was in the Papandreou government, suggested that we should have the right to vote when the public participates in the recapitalisation, after two years in the Papademos government, with its implementing law, voted and chose not to have any public decision-making right to share capital? Is that true? Because if it is true, I think it proves what'reliability' means in politics! You have chosen to recapitalise the banks so far and to have the public fund 60% -70% in equity without any decision-making rights. You reduced the value of the bank bonds with the PSI by 80%. You underestimated the banks' stock exchanges in the period of blooming from 2009 to 2011 in three years by 40%. And since you have, of course, dropped to the tarts of the banks, the success story and the exit to the markets, you have even more valued them and further downgraded their function. And so it started really simple and bank run. The announcement of the election of the President of the Republic was that it dismantled the operation of the deposit. Don't act like you're forgetting it. Don't want to load them elsewhere. You loaded them on the cock, because you just didn't care about Greece and the real economy. Now they blame SYRIZA for losing the Greeks' property. It is obvious that there is no shame in the old political system. There's only nerve! Is it possible for the citizen to finance the bankers' debts, for the European Central Bank to decide to close the banks - why the banks were closed, while the Prime Minister had agreed with the leaders and Germany and France to go to the referendum undisturbed as a country - and then, from there, to want the Greek citizen to feel guilty, why did the banks have a lower price on the Stock Exchange? Why has the Greek citizen achieved so far? Where was the real economy fuelled by this operation of the banks? It was far from the economy, and that is the big mistake that social democracy has made: connecting the real economy to the stock exchange value of banks. Our view is that we need to get away from this mistake of stock-raising. To move to the real product economy. And sincerely, Mr. Theocharis, is it without object that Greece should finance a Greek manufacturing industry which provides work in both primary and secondary sectors and which creates a Greek product? And was it really your object, which, with a thousand five hundred provisions, you almost shut down all Greek companies? Because, quite simply, the unstable tax system was created in previous periods.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u49	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u50	What you really care about is that we support Greek businesses, Greek jobs, such as the Greek Sugar Industry, while you only want the big bods of the big multinationals to come to Greece, take the goodwill and buy our properties! Of course, this state of insecure management of the economy continued, with rumors about 'parental', with 'health paper', with money your friend would get from the deposits, obviously, in two months' time, why you would leave Greece - but you did not leave, we still see you! - by bankruptcy and referendum. I wanted to ask: if we were to vote 'yes' as a Greek people in the referendum, where would the banks be? With the Juncker package, which gave no solution but four months, and which was an extortion without financing the economy? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're welcome, Mr. President. I'll be done in a minute. Even the agreement made by SYRIZA, an agreement that carried 50 billion short-term debt much longer, but it also provided funding, which we are discussing today for recapitalisation. Even this agreement, the 'no' of the Greek people, gives the banks a solution. Would your "yes" send us even better? Fortunately, however, we have not been broken. Why quite simply, do you know what the success story was? Do you know what was in front of the banks and the Greek economy at the end of 2014? Loans totalling 70 billion and an obligation to make a surplus of 4.5% a year. Is that what you want us to do to believe that you had solved the problem of the Greek economy? You've gone from bad to worse. And thankfully, political developments have accelerated. And thankfully, the people with their own pressure lead to this policy being implemented, because very simply you have not apologise for your youth policy that was calling "Great, take their money!" That is why you have not dared to apologize once for the Greek people. Because we're talking about the money of our country's workers. Because we're talking about businessmen's money, who work hard to get Greece one step ahead! And practically what you wanted was for strangers to take them. That's all you were interested in. We are, however, moving forward with the recapitalisation of the banks with a key element, which we are presenting here in public, with the protection of the main residence and with the break-up of the media, banks and the political system. Only with a guarantee of public interest will we proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u51	Please, Mr. Colleague, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u52	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that for us it is happiness - and we can boast it - that the exercise of politics by this Parliament is determined by the people's factor in wanting banks that can be clear, create equivalency and a real market economy. And this support of the social factor in the big changes will also be made by us, so that Greece can move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Femmelle. Mr. Karaoglu, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a point of order, which I am sure you will all agree with. Mr Tsipras' second left government has forgotten what a smooth parliamentary procedure means, making Parliament's plenary a spectator in the same monotonous work. Of the six - if I am not mistaken - bills tabled immediately after the elections, the four have been debated or are to be discussed in accordance with the urgency or urgency procedure. This results in Members calling for better cases within ten to twelve hours to look at bills of three hundred to four hundred pages and hundreds of articles and then come here to discuss them and vote on them. O tempora, the more! As times, obedient, Greeks. Left-wing government second-time parliamentary term with fast track procedures for drafting bills! This is a deeply undemocratic process, which blatantly offends democracy and undermines Parliament's role. It is a coup d'état tactic implemented by our left government, whose main concern is to badly hurt the Member of Parliament, since it is trying to get us all to the point of view. And the reason is obvious: Conflict parties are unable to explain how in such a short time all versions of the supposed alternative account presented in society to emerge from the crisis have collapsed. They are unable to explain how their overly pro-electional announcements charged Greek taxpayers with new debts, with new heavy obligations and with an impeccable tax policy, without any development countermeasure, at the same time that Cyprus, after two and a half years of memorandum, is coming out of the memorandum. Parliament's fiftyness, ladies and gentlemen, is the exercise of legislative work. This is historically the oldest but also the most important competence of the Greek Parliament, for which the present government is actually blackmailing us. At this point let me remind you of something very important: the urgency procedure is provided for in the Constitution only for exceptional and unforeseen situations. Why do I mention this? But because the recapitalisation of our banks does not fall under either of these cases, since it is an issue that we have already known since mid-August this year. It is therefore clear that the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence is attempting by means of a selective application of the provisions of the Constitution to set up a bill banner that, unfortunately, defines the future of our country. As a general point of order. On the bill, the New Democracy is facing a positive attitude - at least at the very beginning - the question of the recapitalisation of banks, because it is required by the circumstances that have arisen in our country because of the criminal errors of the government. Previously I listened with interest to my dear colleague claiming that they will make a choice which banks will save. Obviously, he was saying this because he did not consider the report of the European Central Bank, the excellent stress tests, which were only a short time ago. I would therefore inform him that the report - and I put the three pages in the Minutes of this House from the relevant press release, because the report is large - refers to the four specific systemic banks of EUR 14.4 billion and, of course, accounts for the deterioration of the macroeconomic environment in Greece, which has led to an increase in the volume of non-performing loans. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These, to know what the truth is and exactly how things are. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of 2015 the Greek banking system had stabilised, as a number of important interventions had taken precedence over the previous government, the government of Antonis Samaras. More specifically, in 2014, our banks had regained access to international markets, had made capital increases of EUR 8.3 billion, successfully passed the exercise of a comprehensive assessment carried out by the European Central Bank, zeroed their dependence on the European Support Facility, while the market capitalisation of the Greek State's participation through the Financial Stability Fund had been established at around EUR 15 billion. Please note, all this was done by the end of 2014, because immediately after the January 2015 elections they followed the closure of the banks and the imposition of capital controls, which affected both the liquidity and the solvency of the banking system with the results known to all. Just think about the following: While in spring 2014 the stock exchange value of the four so-called ‘systemic’ banks amounted to EUR 25 billion, their stock exchange value has been shrinking to EUR 3.1 billion. Medea, then, the armoured Greek banking system reached its limit point in February 2015, as President of the European Central Bank Mario Draghi warned, and now because you need a third capital support because of your policy, because of the derailment of the Greek economy. We therefore say 'yes' to the recapitalisation of banks in order to prevent Greek citizens from cutting their deposits. And no one has to hurry from SYRIZA to describe me as a dangerous one, because this statement has been made at the end of September by the current Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakal TIMES at the FINANCIAL TIMES, warning that the Greek economy is in front of a critical crossroads: "Or we proceed directly to the recapitalisation of the banks in 2015 or follow a deposit haircut." In any case, the recapitalisation of the banks must be done because it will shield our banking system significantly, it will help depositors to regain their confidence in the banks and thus finance the economy. Take note, however, of our positive attitude, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean a white cheque or that we will not be critical of the government. We will not propose a freezing of the arrangements for the recapitalisation of the banks, as Mr Tsipras said in 2012, nor will we be blaming you by accusing you of making important decisions to support the bankers with the money of Greek taxpayers, as Mr Tsipras also said in 2012. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I repeat that we are voting in favour of and will then be placed in plenary on articles, firstly to exclude the risk of holding deposits, which for the first time comes as close as possible and, secondly, to close this debate which, while being maintained, undermines any development prospects. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that as long as the government does not see the consequences of its actions and refuses the reality so much the responsibility for the irreparable damage it causes to our economy and our society. Listen, finally, to the agony of the world. Humiliate his needs. Finally, rule responsibly and logically. Put the truth and the patriotic duty into place of illusions and election demagogy. Because as our anointed people say, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, where I was and where I am, you will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr Karaoglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u57	Are you asking the reason for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u58	On personal grounds, Mr President, Mr Famelos referred to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u59	To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u60	He referred to me on the issues of the Greek Sugar Industry, to which I referred yesterday, but also to my term of office as Secretary-General and I owe an answer to both the Greek people and to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u61	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u62	Not a minute, Mr President. I referred to the Greek Sugar Industry, which opened with responsibility again for SYRIZA - and possibly did well - but announced 54 million damages, which it will load on the Greek people. And to remind you what is 54 million, 200 million is SYRIZA's aid for the humanitarian crisis. Why not make it 250 million help to the weakest human beings, if we are - and good - give them 50 million Greek people to help them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u64	There's no problem. Not to mock the rural world, not to mock the people who need to find a job, as long as we have a business plan that makes it sustainable. That's what we have to do. He wants courage - because Mr Famelos referred to this - to talk to us, when we returned to the economy in unemployment and recession, when all northern Greece is left behind with the policies of SYRIZA and the companies in Bulgaria, which I have closed down, are supposed to be - with my circulars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Apostle, would you like to speak to comment on what Mr. Theocharis said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u67	As Minister of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u68	Yes, because, as Minister for Rural Development and Food, I also have a responsibility on this matter. Mr. Theochari, we found a Sugar Industry that was essentially on the verge of closing. And of course we have made the political decision to continue the operation of sugar, even trying to satisfy producers as much as possible in terms of prices as possible. From there on, through a plan currently under way, we can continue to operate this industry. For we really regard these kinds of industries in the rural area as a flag, as a tool for the country's productive reconstruction. You, for this particular case, agreed or not? Why, at last, we must be clear about Greek society, towards farmers, to all those who fight for the country's tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u69	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u70	So we should not talk about something that, I think, the whole House in the debate on this issue is yes, but basically it agrees with this regulation. So what? You expect to see what will be going on in the future, because right now there is a plan, there is an ongoing debate on a convention on the further progress of the Sugar Industry. Do not make assimilations on an issue that we at least defended from our side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u73	Mr Theocharis, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for an interactive debate, only on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u74	He asks me questions, won't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u75	You asked for the floor, and you said it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u76	But he's asking me questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u77	Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for an interactive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, just thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u79	Although another Member is asking for the floor, we will be in the process of the interactive debate. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for that. Only for staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u80	Yes, but it cannot let it suggest that we have not answered the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u81	We have an interactive debate here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u82	We'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u83	The Minister was placed and said what he was doing himself. But not to have an interactive debate, because someone else will also ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u84	He can't ask me why and I can't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u85	I'm sorry, Mr. Theochari. I gave you the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u86	You, too, deviate from the Rules of Procedure. You gave the floor to the Minister. You can't give him to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u87	As you know, the Rules of Procedure say that when a Minister asks why he should be placed, I have to give him. I gave you the floor on staff. Now you want to have an interactive conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u88	We're not having an interactive conversation, I'm answering. Thirty seconds...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u89	Then the Minister, another Member, etc. will ask for the floor again. Interactive discussion cannot take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u90	No reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u91	Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Micho, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u93	We'd be done, Mr. President. Please, it is not possible to give the impression that I cannot answer it. It's not right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u94	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u95	It's not your money. It's the Greek people's money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u96	Please! Mr. Micho, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. The point is that no one has been punished so far for our country, ladies and gentlemen. Today's urgent draft law adds and amends powers relating to the Financial Stability Fund. The CFS is the top of the spear of the banks and the Greek banking system. It is the special body through which the money borrowed by Greece is directed not to meet the country's supposed requirements for the payment of pensions, for health, etc. but for the supply of banks that are not controlled by anyone, despite the fact that according to the law they have a representative of the administration appointed by the Greek State. It is the vehicle where billions of euros are headed by opaque procedures. It is the long hand of lenders to control the entire banking system and the only one, together with governments, of not providing liquidity to the economy. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do I have to go on?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u99	My colleagues are shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u100	Please, be quiet, because the speaker doesn't sound. Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u101	The Financial Stability Fund was established by Law 3864/2010, a few months after the country was placed under the support mechanism, with the pretext of inability to borrow as a legal person under private law, i.e. as a private enterprise. As recorded in FEK 119/A/21-7-2010, it does not belong to the public sector. It has administrative and financial self-sufficiency and its private character is not even undone by the coverage of its capital by the Greek State - Article 1. Furthermore, with the establishment of the CFSF, it must manage its capital and its general property to be derived from the support mechanism, i.e. by increasing the public debt burden on Greek citizens for the next decades - Article 3 - in such a way as to protect the value of that property and to minimise the risks to the Greek citizen - Article 2. Based on the then estimates of both the Greek Government and the Bank of Greece, the capital to be paid to the CFS in order to stabilise the banking system was EUR 10 billion, which now seems to be the best satire of global economic history. Because on 19-4-2012, and after the banks had signed up to the EUR 93 billion through the European Central Bank and the emergency liquidity mechanism - the ELA - the EUR 90 billion guarantees of the Greek State, the President of the Republic of Charles Papoulias signed another act of legislative content - FEC 94/A/19-4-2012 - the co-operation government, under which the capital of the FFS was increased to EUR 50 billion, due to the extremely urgent and unforeseen need to address urgent capital enhancement issues of credit institutions. Two days before the Act of Legislative content was published in the above FEK and five months before it was ratified by Law 4079/2012-EK 180/A/20-9-2012; the Cooperation Government and the Bank of Greece signed for the deposit in the account of the FEI of EUR 25 billion, upping the capital of the Fund to EUR 26.500.000, as recorded in Note 14 of the Annual Financial Report of the CFS for the use from 1-1-2012 to 31-12/2012. For the deposit of EUR 25 billion, the Greek State received a new loan from the debt support mechanism, as resulting from the AA2 decision of the Minister of Finance Philip Sahinides, published in FEK 1646/B/11-5/2012. In other words, the Greek citizens were charged EUR 36,878.720,000 in addition, which most of them used EUR 25 billion to form the capital - the property of the CFS, which is, as I said before, a legal person governed by private law. The financial burden of the Greek citizens continued on December 13, 2012. The then government of co-operation and the Bank of Greece signed for the re-submission to the account of the CFSF of EUR 16 billion by raising the fund's capital to EUR 42,500,000,000, as well as recorded in Note 14 of the annual financial report of the Fund for the use from 1-1-2012 to 31-12/2012. On 12 December 2012, one day before the deposit of the 16 billion euros to the CFS, the President of the Republic, Charles Papoulias, signed a legislative act by which the Government of Cooperation on the basis of extremely urgent and unforeseen needs, due to the suffocating time to make a very high debt buy-back, even for international data up to 35 billion euros, and in order that the Council of Finance Ministers of 13 December 2012 decides on disbursement by the Support Mechanism of a total of EUR 43,700,000 by the end of December 2012, with the popular CF 240/A/12/2012 of the drafts of the modification conventions to the «Ministerial Financial Facility», with the well-known unreserved implications for our country, both irresponsible and unreserved resignation of any immunity against judicial action and subjection to English law. From that point on, we shall also proceed with the assignment of our national sovereignty. Because I don't get the time to say all the rest of the numbers, these are to make it easier for the banks to get rich. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, for a second. Before I close, however, I would like to say that the current government is also doing what it does for the banks. The elections were held so that banks could not be closed down. On the way, as we all know, only two banks will stay, merge. We know the results. Money has not fallen into the world from the money that has come to support and stayed in the banks. They're made offshore companies. Let's see what your government will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Mijo. The Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, has the floor for thirteen minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u103	British scholar Samuel Johnson had said that "the last refuge of each carer is patriotism". It wasn't against patriotism. It was against people who use patriotism to hide their own things. If we had to renew in the Greek Parliament what is the last refuge, we should say that it is anti-barafelism. It's all the fault of Yanis Varoufakis, of what I understand in this House. I think that, when there are no arguments, there is Yiannis Varoufakis for the opposition. Yanis Varoufakis is responsible for the capital controls. Yanis Varoufakis is to blame, because the banks need to be recapitalised. Giannis Varoufakis was responsible for the economic situation deteriorated after this triumphant return to the development achieved by the New Democracy and the PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u104	We don't exclude you, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u105	I think that no one is convinced of this argument. As E.H. says. Karr in his important book "What is History?", if it is from such a big accident to depend on history, some more systemic problems will have affected these developments. No one is convinced that the economy was going so well in January 2015 and SYRIZA broke it in six months. No one is convinced that the capital control and suffocation were not the result of a political pressure from abroad so that things would not change in the Eurozone, with the help of the polite sponsorship of Greek actors who wanted the same failure, who continued to talk about Grexit, who continued to say that SYRIZA will bring about the complete catastrophe. No one is convinced that we did not have a very big problem with banks long before SYRIZA and long before 2008. On the one hand, I will say that on the other hand, there are too many other texts that analyse how many people have no confidence in the Greek banking system, because it has had many influences on politics. We have good bankers, but we also had a system that was in favour of certain interests. In Greece we have a word "policy" for two British words, "policy" and "policys". One of the problems we have to face in this bill, but also in many other bills, is that a left-wing government would like to have a policy of intervention, that is to be able to influence the banks' policy in order to serve the real economy, not to invest so much in derivatives and other very dangerous financial instruments, but not to affect who the commander is and not to have an influence on helping this company and the other company, on this football team, on the other channel. Here we have this problem: you are asking us whether we are in favour or against recapitalisation, because before we spoke against. I will be very responsible for this answer. I shall also speak about the observations of the JRC made today and in the committee. As Joan Robinson said about the labour market, the only thing worse than taking advantage of capitalism is not taking advantage of you, because capitalism, if you're not being exploited, means you're unemployed. The same applies to the recapitalisation. The only thing worse than the recapitalisation of the banks is that there is no recapitalisation of the banks, because if there is no recapitalisation of the banks we will have very unpleasant developments and very unpleasant developments for the poorest people. But there is a symmetry between these two things that I said because within capitalism we can resolve the question of recapitalisation and banks, while within capitalism we cannot resolve the issue of labour exploitation. I'm saying that, Mr. Maniatis, for you. To think together that although we have made concessions from the governance of the banks we would like, you will, of course, see that in Article 10 and Article 4A there are a lot of things in favour of transparency. There are also agreements that will be able to influence the banks' policy in favour of the real economy and things we wanted. There is one autonomy that we would not want so badly and why we would like to have more influence on the policy of the real economy, but also because we continue to worry about the systemic banks of Greece and Europe. What I want to say and why I am addressing you. Your area, the area of social democracy, must change the position it has had over the past thirty years. We need to see the power that banks have to exploit us and always have to save them with the taxpayers' money that the JRC says. That's what the JRC's right about. I was right to what I was saying - and Mr Vorides was kind yesterday to remind me of these right words in committee - because it is a real problem that banks can invest where they want, invest in dangerous tools and have the autonomy to do so, and we had to limit it, at least at European level. I hope that, when this debate is going to take place in Europe, you will now be on the right side of this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue for the bill, saying that we have a roadmap - as I have told you many times - where the recapitalisation of the banks takes a very big place to be in a different position after January than we are now. I don't agree. Mr Stathakis replied very convincingly yesterday to the committee. I'm sure he'll do it again for everything you say about red loans. I just want to say that, at the moment, the recapitalisation is being carried out together with the treatment of red loans. We have two parallel activities. The recapitalisation is under way today. In the second series of prerequisites, we will have the solution for red loans. So at the end of the year the recapitalisation of banks and red loans will be completed. This is the big difference and not what was on stress test and what wasn't on stress test, not the fairy tales about who it was to blame for the red loans and that they were created after January 2015. The real picture of the Greek people is that these problems will be solved at the same time in two parallel activities that will have been completed by the end of the year. And I must tell you that the news of the recapitalisation - despite what Mr Theocharis said yesterday and today by other speakers - is that it goes much better than we thought. I told you I was much happier today and optimistic about the recapitalisation of the banks than if we had had had had this debate a month ago. I apologise for delays, but there were many things that they did not answer. Mr. Theocharis heard that. And it makes me sad that Mr Theocharis hears things in committee and just keeps saying the same thing. It was a lot of things that hadn't been solved by TGCOM, there were a lot of things that had not been solved by the SSM and could not have been done before without these data. You know that and you continue to use the same argument you said yesterday. And I'm more optimistic about recapitalisation. One reason why I am more optimistic is that the EBRD, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, has declared participation. This is very good because it is a first trade mark for private individuals to participate. It is very good because it shows that there are investors who have long-term intentions to participate in the Greek economy and that through this long-term intention to participate in the Greek economy we can help deal with the red loans, access our own banks to the interbank market and the general question of the reconstruction of the economy. We have a bill that takes away the risk of a deposit haircut, as I have told you, that has nothing to do with SYRIZA. The danger is the new BRRD, which I think was not the inspiration of SYRIZA. Even the speakers in the New Democracy will understand that. We have a bill that gives full voting rights for new shares and shares that the CFS will get for the least good scenario, not the basic scenario, that the ESM money will go to the CF and buy common shares. They will have the right to vote, but the old shares, the privileged shares we have, which we will convert into common shares will have the right to vote. We have a balance between public interests and private interests. This will be reflected in the decision we take in practice by the Ministerial Council, which will determine what will be the ratio between 'Cocos'. We did not even know until Wednesday if we could have 'Cocos'. We're still not in it 100% -99.8%, 99.3%, 99.5%, to say a number that I know what I'm saying - sure. That is where we will establish the relationship between Cocos, the public and the common shares. There are no warrants in this bill. There are no servers to convince the private sector. Because there is such confidence in the recapitalisation and in the SYRIZA government that the private sector is not required to participate. We have predicted that there will also be participation in this process and in cooperative banks and other small banks. And we have the CFSF to undertake to monitor the evolution of the management of red loans by the banks through a special administrator designated by the CFS itself. As I said before, in the part that is for governance there was a compromise that does not completely cover us. It is a compromise between the systemic banks across Europe trying to restrict political intervention in the bad sense. That is, to appoint those we want to serve specific interests, to continue the customer system. But at the same time, along with the shower, we lose the baby. Because the intervention you can make is limited to limiting the banks to this part, which is the bad activities that have brought us to the crisis in 2008 and not to force them to serve the real economy. The big political issue that will be decided following our roadmap - which ends, as I said, about January - is the great political issue that we will be tabling our development policy in March 2016. There we should discuss and understand whether systemic banks can help in this development model and whether we need systemic banks, special-purpose banks, banks such as investment banks, special banks, so that we can have a different development model. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, not more than a minute, Mr President. SYRIZA and the ANEL Government - SYRIZA will deposit this program by March 2016. He'll have a lot of evidence. It is obvious to us that the financial system plays an important role in this. There are many problems to be solved at the supranational level for this system, there are many problems to be solved at national level, to see what banking system we will have. We risk having the most concentrated banking system across Europe. That's not good. We will deal with all these problems in the same way as we have faced the other problems, with organisation, with wisdom and a radical attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Minister. Mr Vorides, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, will have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, please, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u108	I'll give you the floor right after Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u109	I raise my hand so long, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u110	Now I saw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u111	If you'll excuse me for making a personal report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Voridis, would you like Mr. Maniotis to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u113	I have no objections, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u114	I should like to respond to the social democracy which has just been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u115	Well, that's not very personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u116	You'll answer later, Mr. Maniots. I'll give you the floor later. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear about the radicalism of this recapitalisation, one comes in, one is the truth, in a mood to answer and remind. I am speaking again now, and I do not want to repeat what we have said to the committees. I want to get over it, but you won't let me, Mr. Chakaloto. You are now telling me about radicalism, then you fatally remember the attitude you have taken over the past period. And, of course, he wonders, what is the present recapitalisation that the two of them did not have? What are you doing differently in this recapitalisation, which is now radical, while the others weren't? For the others - I would remind you, Mr Tsakalotos and the House, why you did not answer me for this spectacular move you made - said Mr Tsakalotos on 11 October 2012: 'The provocative favourable treatment of bank capital proves what SYRIZA has supported since the beginning of the crisis, that is, the policy of the memorandum - that is, the one you are implementing today - is synonymous with the heavy sacrifices of employees, pensioners and small and medium-sized enterprises, while at the same time ensuring continuously gifts to large capital and to bankers.' Now, aren't these gifts in big capital and bankers today? Is it in another context? And what was it - supposedly - the other framework? I heard it from a SYRIZA colleague: we are not talking, he says, about these banks. We're talking about other banks. Which banks are you talking about? What do people think? What do you understand? What banks are being recapitalised today? Because the result of stress tests finally came out, the simulation exercise. Of course, we are talking about the four banks, namely Alpha, Eurobank, National and Piraeus. Which banks were recapitalised in the previous period? Others? And today the ones here that you recapitulate with this bill, what are they? Are they different? I also heard: “The things that used to happen will not be done. Forget it, the loans.' Ladies and gentlemen, you say to us 'forget about the loans to the parties, the loans to the businesses of your friends, the loans to the ODP, all these opaque things, forget about them'. Yes, sir. And I just come to read out what you voted on the governance of the banks. This is adopted in August, ladies and gentlemen, from you who now have to forget the old.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u118	And from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u119	And from us. 'The Government will not interfere with the management, decision-making, commercial operations of banks which will continue to operate strictly on the basis of market principles. The members of the boards of directors and senior management of the banks shall be appointed without State interference.’ How do you decide on the loans and where they will go? What are you talking about? Listen, it's clear what he says here. It says here: 'with market criteria', here it says 'curtain'. What opacity, how will you determine who will go, whether they will go here or there? There is, therefore, a specific institutional framework, which is a market framework with which banks operate. And Mr Tsakalotos comes again today and tells us what is known as SYRIZA's inclination, ladies and gentlemen: 'It was another painful compromise'. Yeah? Is there anything that wasn't painful about what you're implementing? Or have you taken all the painful things, brought them here and tell us how much pain you're hurting and we're sorry you're implementing them? Is there anything you really want to do? Because in any case we're tired of it. Everything was a painful compromise, but at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, and a successful seventeen-hour negotiation. A painful compromise? A successful negotiation? We have to come up with this. Let's agree on what we have. If the negotiations were successful, defend it, if it was a painful compromise, see what you're going to do. But I also come to the famous and great subject which concerns us. Because look at what the matter is. Obviously, the way you've done it, now banks need to be recapitulated. There is no possibility of not being recapitalised. That is self-evident, which is why we vote. But you have here the nerve and you say who is to blame for this second recapitalisation. Because it's gonna take again. Here, perhaps, they are very likely to get money from the Greek State for the recapitalisation of banks, i.e. from the taxpayer. So you are now carrying a cost to the taxpayer, so that there are no systemic problems in the economy, so that the deposits are not lost, so that all of this does not happen. That's right. Who carried all this cost? Mr Tsakalotos says, who is now obliged to cooperate closely with certain very central and key institutions and pillars of architecture, Mr Famele, of the European Banking System. What can man do? Out of the way, that's his job. So, then, listen to what this pillar of the banking system says about what happened. What I am reading to you and I shall submit is the press release of the European Central Bank, published today, concerning stress tests. And he says about the simulation exercise: “In the context of this exercise significant adjustments were made to the quality of the assets, despite the efforts made by the banks to record part of the findings of the quality control of the assets carried out in 2014.” So, Mr Stathakis, to finish yesterday, there was certainly a deterioration in red loans from 2010 to 2015, obviously as a result of the inability of households and businesses to pay their loans because of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u120	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u121	Obviously, no one disputes that. But what does that say about our debate? This was considered and predictions were taken into account when banks were recapitalised in the stress tests, which took place in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u122	They're out of line. They're not caught.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u123	So that was inside. And 2014 did not need to be recapitalised. Are we all aware of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u124	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u125	I don't know if it's not you. All the rest of the world are in agreement. You've left. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The bank has been consulted, the Commission has come to an agreement, everyone has come to an agreement. You have left yourself to tell another story. But let's go to why we need recapitalisation, because that's what they call it. This is primarily due, Mr President-in-Office, to your gifts. So what? In the deterioration of the macroeconomic environment in Greece - when was that? - which has led to an increase in the volume of non-performing loans since '14 and hence a decrease in both the value of collateral and the valuation of cash flows. What are the safeguards? The loans have collateral. When value decreases, additional collateral is needed. If not provided, risks for the provision of the loans are created. In addition, there is the question of recognising the write-down of value in the quality control of assets. Have you started today, my Minister, your speech defending Varoufakis? At least let you sacrifice Baroufakis, because then you'd have had and blame someone. Now you've taken it all in your arms, because of course we never thought Mr. Varoufakis was autonomous. He was autonomous in a different sense, but not autonomous of what Mr Chakalotos wanted, of what the Prime Minister wanted. It was conducting a specific policy, the results of which we are paying today. Forget that story, then. It is not a question of red loans then the recapitalisation of today. It's a product of your own policy. In fact, if you go to this nice announcement below, when this communication refers to the scenarios that the stress tests take into account, what do they have in mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u126	The report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u127	The report. They have inside what? What do they take into account as key scenarios? For 2015 growth rate minus 2.3. For 2016 growth rate minus 1.3. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have some more time, Mr. President, with your permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u128	Go on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much. In 2016 minus 1.3 rate of growth, while in the adverse scenario, 2015 minus 3,3 and 2016 minus 3,9. Is that because of what? To us? Aren't you handling the economy and having these unfavourable results taken into account in stress test scenarios? Have we done this? Things are clear and clear. The Greek people pay for further recapitalisation of the banks, because the SYRIZA - ANEL government was incapable, insolvent, ineffective and failed in all the exercises it had to do, in all the jobs it had to do and today it sends this account of 14.5 billion to the Greek people. But I come to what you are going to do. What was that amazing? What was the success of the bill? What did you say yesterday? 'Common shares', you told us. Isn't that what you said yesterday? What we're bringing, he says...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u130	And today. You just don't follow that much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u131	You said it today. I'm watching as far as possible. But I now read the wording for common shares, for which you are celebrating. It's Article 7. Article 7 of the current bill reads: ‘The increase in the capital of the credit institution is done by issuing common shares with voting rights or by the issue of convertible Cocos bonds’. Is that correct? I read from 7-4-2014 n. 4254, the one we voted on. Is that correct? Article 7: ‘The capital aid shall be provided through the participation of the fund in an increase in the capital of the credit institution by issuing common shares or by issuing convertible bonds’. A triumph! Repeat the wording! It's shocking! We're speechless! Now who are you kidding? Who are you kidding? The projection has existed since 2014 in the law. We've done that. And you come and celebrate as a great success why do you repeat the wording of the 2014 law?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u132	Did you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u133	We had no recapitalisation from 2014 onwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u134	That's what I'm saying. Did you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u135	But what should we do with it? Since we didn't have a recapitalisation. We didn't spend the money. We kept them doing nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u136	Twice a recapitalisation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u137	Please, Mr Balaura, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u138	I shall conclude, Mr President. I still have two issues - that and the examination - to finish. So what is the second thing about which the Minister is taking you and celebrating here? Ladies and gentlemen, you will tell your constituents tomorrow. They will ask you: ‘What have we achieved with this recapitalisation?’ The Minister told you, the common shares - which we have made since 2014 - and that at last we participate and exercise without limitation the voting rights in the Financial Stability Fund, namely the rights of the State. That's what he said. Where's that? Where does that say, ladies and gentlemen, that? Seven o'clock. It therefore says in 7a that the fund fully exercises the voting rights corresponding to its shares in the capital support. The Fund shall exercise the rights - paragraph 2 - with the limitations set out in paragraph 3 in the following cases. What does the 7a vote today say? ‘The Fund shall exercise without restrictions the voting rights corresponding to the shares’. Paragraph 2: ‘It shall exercise voting rights with the limitations set out in paragraph 3’. It is a repetition of the identical wording of Article 14! Second great success that has already been institutionalised since 2014! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude with this: my colleagues have said for the Committee on Evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u139	Please, Mr. Voridis, you have spent the Minister's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u140	I shall conclude, Mr President. For the Committee on Evaluation, I do not want to say, because that was also a colossal success! You remember that. Then, on the 'bad' days of the Samara government, the administration of the Financial Stability Fund was appointed by the Minister through the selection of specific persons, with certain criteria, and now the evaluation committee - that is what is being voted on, ladies and gentlemen, that is what you have brought us to vote - which will be vague, three foreign representatives of the institutions and three of our own.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u141	And the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u142	And the president to the strangers. You have just allocated - to be informed - the Financial Stability Fund to foreigners and, of course, the appointments of the CFSF to foreigners and by means of the appointments of the CFS obviously the appointments of the banks to foreigners! We are totally aware of what we are doing with this intervention. That was a proud negotiation! Another small, painful compromise! That goes too. What do we have to solve? I need you to tell me what we're going to do with the exam. We had, if you remember - you had voted for it - an examination to check the terms of the second recapitalisation. Are you going to carry on? Don't tell us 'no' because they're in the wording. Are you going to carry on? Because if you're going to go on with it -- it's an idea -- to put her in too. Let's put the third recapitalisation in and do some exams to see what's going on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with one sentence, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that any claim made by SYRIZA about what brings us this new recapitalisation, for its terms, for anything, has collapsed. Unfortunately, your tragic policy, your unacceptable attitude at all levels, your behaviour throughout the first eight months, has led us to these compromises that are all yours, is the result of your inability and you are entirely charged with it along with the EUR 15 billion you are unjustly charging to the Greek people! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Voridis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and two educational attendances from the Children's Law Library. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u145	To what is the staff, Mr. Maniots?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u146	Mr. President, Mr. Chakalotos...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u147	Only I would ask you not to have a debate in order to keep the same distance as Mr. Theocharis who was protesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u148	It won't happen at all. Mr Tsakalotos in his attempt to awkwardly justify the fact that they do not continue the examination of the second recapitalisation to the third recapitalisation and that they committed themselves to doing their second memorandum of inquiry - we said since then, "Let's get ready for the third recapitalisation of Tsipras" which came earlier - tried to show the other face of Janus...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u149	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u150	...the face of a party and a government that loves social democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u151	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u152	This isn't personal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u153	The staff, Mr. Maniotis. You see, other Members are protesting. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u154	I would like, therefore, by referring to my face, to inform him of the following and let my fellow Members also listen: as far as European social democracy is concerned, you have lost tents of the work, Minister. In the last fortnight we have met representatives of twenty Social Democratic parties who believe in the private initiative - which is why we cannot tell you 'welcome to the club', I am sorry, and we will not, as you have said, even as a smuggler to board - and in the banking sector, we have made this clear: No more levers forty. However, these presuppose support for the private initiative for a circular economy and jobs, what you, unfortunately, still do not think is the only way out of the country for growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Theochari, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u158	It has, however, violated the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. You tolerated it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u159	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, you are only interrupting us. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative spoke for another 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u161	You're welcome. The Members are protesting - and rightly so - that staff are not personal. And it really isn't personal. If he wants to say what Mr Maniotis said about the Democratic Reconciliation, the parliamentary representative will say. It's not personal. So on personal grounds, I do not give the floor again if it is not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u162	The Minister said I couldn't hear him. It's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Theochari, excuse me. You are seeing the Members' reactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u164	He said he spoke to the committee and I didn't hear him. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u165	From now on, I'm going to say that he listens to me with religious devotion to end this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u166	Here you go. The Minister made it up to you. Please. The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u167	Our agreement has been broken and Parliament's representatives will be speaking. I tell the Minister for Finance and related Affairs that our agreement was for a Member from each party to speak before the Minister took the floor and then we. That is why I apologise to the Members who have not taken the floor for so long. And I will do it every time, because most of the majority Members, and most of them, are often wronged. In all the debates on the big issues after 20 September, we have such complaints. I don't want you to take me as a cause. Mr Koutsoukos was to speak, to speak to the Bureau and not to speak. Now these are the procedurals...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u168	I'm sorry, I didn't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u169	No, we didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u170	I'm not saying it for me, because I'm going to take the floor. But I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Loverdo, I'm applying the Rules of Procedure. I hadn't given Mr. Koutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, we are trying to have an exemplary parliamentary behaviour. To oppose very much where we think that we should be critical, where we think this is worthy of criticism, but on a second level, and on procedural matters to help the country. How does aid to the country take? On the basis of requests from the government's agenda. Yesterday Mr Maniotis said that it was unacceptable to urgent. We stopped there. This morning before the procedure with Mr Kaklamanis here, we did not steal a couple of hours from the sitting, raising points of order. We agreed to put them in our speeches. My colleague put it on, I put it on. However, in the context of this very sensible and parliamentary intervention, we want to tell you, colleagues of the government - those of you Members of Parliament - that you have done so. You have done so too much with the urgent and legislative acts! I'm not ready today for the emergency. I asked the Bureau a few days ago to be informed by the Government of what legislative acts will come here for ratification, so that there are no grounds for vote and that it should enter the Conference of Presidents on urgent or urgent matters which has happened to us. The Bureau has said 'yes', it has heard it as good, but it has ignored it. So I, ladies and gentlemen, have brought a record of the legislative acts since October 2009, undertaken by the Papandreou Government to date. Mr. Tsakalotos, I inform you that you are a secondary sport, you and Mr. Varoufakis. The Tsipra government, not even in nine months well - well, is second to the number of legislative acts since 2009. And because one might be in doubt, I'm the one who submits the statistics in the Minutes. It is very simple to verify it from the FEK. We got all this from the FEK. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned statistics, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] You're the government that made most of the time. The Samara government had more, but it sat two and a half years. And if you take, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance with Minister of Finance, Papaconstantinou, Sahinides, Venizelos were your "students". You have fourteen acts of legislation in not even nine months. And because we don't forget Lafasan...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u173	And we miss him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u174	We already miss him. I joined the House in 2000. I miss him personally. But I will not forget that every one of our own, even urgent, intervention, was talking about a coup, as if we were junkies. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, what do you think of this? Do you like these? And today we are here in urgent procedure. In other words, we do not have time to talk. And some here applauded Mr. Kaklamanis this morning when he anticipated the early end of the meeting. Why? It's one of the biggest issues. With whomever small, medium, large, businessman if you speak, he will say to you: 'What about the banks?' In other words, the banks, which were about criminals in your hands, and after five years you did the worst you could, you now find them as the lung of the national economy, the citizen and the economy as a whole. There are also some ministers who, when they are criticised for the misappropriation of declared targets with targets - yesterday with today, in other words - laugh at an agreement and say, 'no!'. However, in the third memorandum it makes EUR 86,000,000 and on Monday we will start to learn exactly how much it is and the third recapitalisation of the banks that did not need to be made. Mr. Maniotis has covered it. I don't have time. But I invoke the number allocated. On 31-12-2014, the stock market value of our banks was EUR 19,500,000, and now it is EUR 4.7 billion, Mr Manatis, if I say it well, as you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u175	Even worse today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u176	We're talking about last night when we made the calculations and had the official briefing. Since issues are also raised that shave the recent memory - the loss of a new memory, I don't want to tell you who happens to us, we don't have those 11.2 billion that Varoufakis didn't want, what happened? They're gone. Barofakis, however, didn't get lost. Here it is. He doesn't have responsibilities? The 11.2 billion didn't need it. He doesn't have responsibilities that he didn't need, and we need them now? Mr Chakatou, I heard you say in your speech a moment ago: 'Well, now, for all evils Baroufakis is to blame?' You were the first to criticise him, when you took over, for negotiating that was wrong. So I didn't expect you to report that. But in all the media and social media - your privileged space - these are registered. You are the first one that in a minute, it is the truth, you criticised Giannis Varoufakis for what he did. So what should we do? Should we throw him rose petals and applaud him? He screwed the country with his great toys. He screwed up the country! “SYRIZA II”, after September 20th, is another thing than that of “SYRIZA I” that started managing the crisis when it took over in February. But that's politics. On matters of political responsibility which the House is dealing with and examining, has this Minister of Finance done everything well, ladies and gentlemen? Speaking of which, the financial stability fund, the 11.2 billion that she didn't want, she certainly didn't want it? And speaking of the responsibilities of Varoufakis, what about the examination? What about the exam? I had the great experience, the terrible experience - comedy - to participate in its work as a representative of the PASOK. Now, as a representative of the PASOK - DIMAR Democratic Alliance, I address all the powers of Parliament and say: we have started something. On his issues, we were told to enter all the memorials and the third one. The majority, ladies and gentlemen, said 'No, just enter the first'. And since when? Since 2009. Not the causes we've come to the crisis. Let's not see this. Let's see how we deal with the crisis. We said both the second and the third. You said, "Yes, the Memorandums" - you stopped in the second - and the PSI and the second recapitalisation. No, but the third one you said, 'cause it's not gonna be a third. I see now in the Chamber representatives of the majority in the committee of inquiry at that time. The President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, said that the Bureau of Parliament - and you, Mr President, and your other colleagues - will look at the loose ends from the last part-session. This loose end, if you consider it, we want to stop being a loose end. We want the committee of inquiry to continue - and we are tabling it here today - even if you do not accept the honesty, to add to the agenda of the committee of inquiry and the third memorandum of inquiry. I read the first page of the report and of the first article. Using a term that I learned from your social media people, I tell you that very "friendly" you have become. That is what you are writing, you would not dare say before the January elections and September. Now you're telling us about the purposes of the CFS, which instrument it was. Let's remember what you were saying. Colleagues, you followers of cooperatives and cooperatives, even the notion of cooperatives in cooperative banks, do away with it, after giving the logic to the banks of the rest of the banks, i.e. each shareholder voting according to the investment he has made. You're others! But you are not the ones that time needs. Because, alongside these attempts of neoliberalism that life requires you to do, you are prisoners, you are followers of an administration that increases its signatures, instead of reducing them - we had a draft law yesterday morning and we saw these on energy issues - you are on other issues in favor of adding, supposedly, guarantees, which eventually increase bureaucracy. And because you're wondering, we also invoke Mr. Michalis, the Mayor of SYRIZA - anadam papadam, not a transcription, not a former PASOK, who resurrected, saw the light of the majority, namely the future power, but one of SYRIZA - which, if you remember, was destined for the National Bank and the evaluation cut off, the troika. You've been cut off. So, Mr. Michelis head of the HFSF, if I am not mistaken, and his assessment before the referendum - Mr. Maniotis mentioned it in his speech - was that the banks do not need recapitalisation, that they are the banks that the economy needs. In June these, dear and dear, by oral Michalis! Neither PASOK nor anyone. Speak of the mouth, Michalis! Then came the orchestra of developments, caused by your political embarrassment, which led to the referendum, and the destruction of the banking system came. And you say - and you say it, Minister of Finance, when you talk about banks, do you not say it when you talk about countries where the ball is gone - and it is an argument from your MPs on the channels: 'Is it possible in seven, eight, nine months to become such catastrophes, and in the past nine years everything went well?' Your style is also scoring, it's ironic, it's also practicing, it's deeply political, because you want to obscure the reality and make fun of the world. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] 'Bad business', Minister. A week's ruining a business. There is a government - and fortunately - businessmen to tell you that. A week of delays destroys a business. Imagine a business for 15 days to download the pencils, do nothing. Imagine not paying her employees. Imagine not paying her creditors. For you to imagine all day, its director General tells the shareholders that 'the matter is a political one' and 'now don't look that we don't sell, we're changing the relationships in Europe'. Don't ruin your grace. Change them. Yunker, however, tells you that with the change of relationships you brought a third, worse program than what he proposed to you. So you say, the Minister of Finance, who has not only the responsibility of the state budget, but you have the responsibility of operating the overall economy, what is nine months? Nine months is a disaster! We told you before the elections that it would be five days before destroying what was built. And those of you who are in ministerial headquarters, right now, who have more brains, surely see it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I speak with a bell. Stop it. I'll finish up and get down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u177	After your time's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u178	Brief procedures, ladies and gentlemen. I had an emergency, didn't you? Remove the word!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u179	Mr Loverdos, I told Mr Voridis, you speak exactly the same year - you speak more than the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u180	Could you give me some time? But don't bore the bell all the time. It's very annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u181	How much do you want? You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u182	So I close by saying that you can't ask yourself - only if you do it among people who don't know, that's where they'll tell you that the argument is reasonable - whether, in nine months' time, it's only SYRIZA. We who have exercised power, carried out a task of governance in the midst of a crisis, have learned very well that we have neither five days left nor left this administration, the bad administration of the Greek state, which is the case, two hundred years. You didn't ruin her. Two hundred years he's had the same maliciousness. Read, ladies and gentlemen, the causes of the crisis and bankruptcy of 1932, the bankruptcys of the 19th century. You will find two topics, which are now the same: the tax system and the weakness of the state. When you have to run this badly operating machine, you have to be on top. It is political and to hold a conference in general and a conference are issues for other times. This is where we need a consistent political presence. And this consistent presence not only did you not have it, but you also had a wrong policy. Now you go straighten them up with a string - I say again - neoliberalism and unrelated statism, the old institutional guarantees that were eventually added bureaucracy and corruption, and not fast as the economy demands. We'll vote. I shall speak in dentistry and tritology - if I have time - on the subject and on the specific issues of the provisions. Read paragraph 4 of Article 1, so that we can have a common discussion area later. We will vote in principle, with the responsibility we feel - and we have - towards the depositors and businesses. Powerful capital banks are the foundation - we have always said that, we are not in the way of our past - for the stability of the economy. However, this is not enough, ladies and gentlemen of the majority that we meet in the media, and you show us this as a panacea. It's necessary, it's a foundation stone. But that is not enough for growth to come. It must be restored to the banking system and confidence and economic security, to return the deposits, and at least from the banks' side, to work to be done like the economy, the citizens, the level of unemployment, the recession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u185	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u186	After the last two speeches I wanted to make a clarification at least for colleagues and colleagues, who, when our Lord was sharing the humor gene, were holding an umbrella. When I said that Samuel Johnson had told us that the last refuge of the karoufakis is patriotism - and to you it is Mr Varoufakis - it is obvious that I meant that in a short while, as you do some and some, it is because it is the Greek National lost twice in and out of the islands of Faroe, and that Mr Varoufakis has been responsible for the rainiest year for fifteen years! It's obvious that I meant you were hiding behind this big responsibility for the economy. And these responsibilities have been recorded in almost all books, in all articles, throughout the scientific community. Governance 2010-2015 was a very big failure, with very big mistakes, which you could have avoided, even with your own ideology. Finally, especially for Mr Vorides - but I am sure Mr Stathakis will answer - and after what I have heard, about how many times he has spoken about foreigners who do this, about foreigners who take the other one, I would like to say that it is true of what Samuel Johnson said, that the last refuge of each of them - in the good sense - is patriotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, too. The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u188	Secretary-General of the JRC, not the parliamentary group. Okay, it's nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u189	That's the official title. I also recognize the President. I'm saying, beyond that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u190	No problem, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the river wing]] Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. Gentlemen of the government, you have exceeded every precedent. Both the procedures and the substance of the bill deserve the title of the most ruthless servant of the ruling class of capitalists, who you have ever heard in at least the words of you complained about. You must take urgent measures to prevent any racing interference by the people against the great attack that you are seeking and which you are escalating. You are blocking any real debate and confrontation, you are effectively abolishing the right to inform the people. There is no unforeseen event justifying this urgent procedure. Your bill promotes the implementation of the guidelines already decided in August and the timetable was well known. These urgent procedures were constantly denounced as a coup d'état until you became a government. Your only offer to the people is that you are objectively helping our most inconspicuous fellow citizen today to understand what class interests the operation of today's Parliament of your Government serves. You are also provoking and mocking at the same time when you say that the new recapitalisation of banks takes place in the interest of our people. Do you really promote strict conditions for the protection of the people's families who have been charged red loans and cannot repay them? Does it include your bill of law measures and diagrams to protect workers in the banking sector from redundancies, from wage cuts in the next period? None of this includes. It moves in the same anti-popular direction of the previous recapitalisations carried out by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK at the time. Besides, that's probably why they're supporting you today. It values the fear of curbing the deposits, to load new burdens on the people's backs, to pay off the consequences of banking groups from increasing red business loans, and from fleeing funds and deposits abroad in crisis conditions. The increase in red business loans was spectacular in the period 2010-2015. At the end of 2014, a delayed repayment phase was about 40% of the business loans, above EUR 40 billion. At the same time, however, during the time of the crisis, the foreign domestic capital exceeds EUR 140 billion. This is the capitalism of the free market, of the free movement of capital, of investments, which we are talking about, with the highest percentage of profits. The new recapitalisation of the banks, which is currently being promoted to the detriment of taxpayers, serves not only the interests of banking groups, but also the whole of the monopoly capital in our country. The people are forced to bleed newly in order to support the functioning of the capitalist economy. You challenge, gentlemen of the government, with what you say these days. Do you think one can forget so quickly what you were saying when you voted against all the previous recapitalisations? Today's Deputy Prime Minister explained why it is scandalous, banks staying in the hands of private individuals, then, while being saved by state money and, at the same time, they cannot even guarantee the deposits guaranteed by the state. Today's Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, said that all banks that are recapitalised by state resources should be placed under state ownership and social control. We, and now and then, have explained that the promise to bank capital for the benefit of the people in capitalism is the shortest joke, at best. Any shareholder composition that a bank has in the context of these capitalist production relationships will operate on the basis of its profitability. But, you, in this political deception sire, what do you come, really, to suggest today? What are the radical changes that you're promoting now? Are you proud of why you have ensured an even more active role in the European Commission, in the European Central Bank with regard to governance of the domestic banking system? Aren't you embarrassed when after what you've been demagogically saying over the years, now you're saying low-speaking that we need to find a balance point between State participation and the attraction of new private investments to banks? Is it really a left-wing policy to try to negotiate with the current and candidates, whether local or foreign shareholders or their shares next day with the Greek banks? Are you not ashamed at all to say that Parliament will be voting first and then by ministerial decision on how to recapitalise, namely the ratio, the distribution of the participation of the Financial Stability Fund, between the common shares and the Cocos, of the convertible bonds? By what right do you legislate that the Fund may waive its rights in the event of an increase in equity or issue under the terms of convertible bonds? The monstrosity, which you are proposing today, can really serve as a lesson in the class role played by the urban state, the present state, in the capitalist economy. Your attitude reveals and what will happen next, of course. It also explains why there is a strong interest in American funds, that is to say, in the acquisition of red business loans and problematic listed companies. In fact, you are being decisively promoted, without prejudice, the direction you have already adopted with the previous prerequisites and, of course, the framework of the third Memorandum. You have already committed that the return of domestic banks to the private sector will take place as soon as objective conditions allow. Based on the same direction, you accelerate the delivery of cooperative banks to the large groups and the loss of control of the Attica Bank by the CSME. We had no delusion that there could be pro-familiar, cooperative odors in this capitalist desert that we live in. We objected in time to the alleged cumulative solution of the insurance fund as a banker's role. However, now is not the time for mere determination or verification of the predictions of our own or of anyone. It is time to fight against the attack which is mainly being launched on the workers, on the self-employed, on poor farmers. It is time to reveal the new fairy tale, with which you are trying to extract the subjection of the people, what we call social consensus, class cooperation. Your attempt to do the white one is not worth even serious criticism, as we call it. The only thing you're telling the truth is that all urban parties, with their positions, with their actions all these years, are conscientious about the current situation. However, the effort of the Minister of Economy to tell us that at the time this bill is put forward will give the battle for social control of banks throughout Europe and, indeed, for the benefit of the people, only laughter can cause. Allow me, it cannot mean anything else, nor can anyone take such a statement seriously in such circumstances. As some of you are not convinced to present this bill as a result of the enforcement of the Troika, the "quartet" as it is called, etc. You say, from abroad, because of the mismanagement and unreliability of the administration of the Greek banks in the previous years. You're saying they're pushing you because of corruption and you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're, Who's pushing you? The people in the locker have all the great skeletons of the Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank, Lehman Brothers and ENRON? Is corruption a Greek original, with the aim of profiting large groups? Who are you kidding? Only an alibi, in our view, are you looking for internal consumption here in the country to pass your anti-Fraud policy. Promise the people that if they turn back and accept these measures we will return to a path of growth and prosperity for all and for monopolies, i.e. big capital, and for the workers, the unemployed, the young and the young. You say to the people: now fight with taxation, the recapitalisation of banks, the insurance, the other measures, anyway, which are coming, and soon philosophical development will come. You say deliberately and consciously lies. The recovery and the increase in Group Profit, not only does it not go hand in hand, but it reverses popular prosperity. Their profits increase on the ruins of the people's rights. Today's sacrifices are not the exception, they are the norm, as far as we go on this development path, namely the capitalist development path. No major shareholder, no potential investor will accept, even as soon as the crisis takes place, the major losses that the people's family had. Even an increase in bank lending to enterprises after the recapitalisation will not open the way for real popular prosperity. The significant increase in the lending of industrial production by the financial sector is generally pushing overproduction, over-accumulation of capital, pushing it to its extremes, that is, preparing, in fact, the event of the next capitalist crisis. This conclusion has been fully confirmed by all the historical development of this whole system, all these years of capitalism. The road to recovering his losses and meeting his needs will be opened by the Greek people, if he really believes in his power, if he organises his opposition, if he signals the real opponent, which is the power of the groups, the European Union that supports them. The JRC is starring every day, with specific racing initiatives, to open up this road. We have tabled concrete proposals to the House and to protect the people's households, the people's families with red loans, the relief of the unemployed, the workers in cooperative banks, which the Greek people of course do not need and I do not need to mention all these in detail today. On this road, therefore, we will continue with more determination, with dynamic mobilizations of the Greek people and of his movement, in a popular alliance from one end to the other throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much. You were perfect, an example to be imitated! And now Mr Dannelis, the party's parliamentary representative, has the floor in Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had full order and peace the day before yesterday. Fortunately! Nothing was recalled on 28 October 2011, when a crowd of indignant and completely guided citizens, who should be noted that since January they were missing, they broke the parades and broke the anniversary in all the major cities of the country. It was then that you said, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that the message was clear: to stop the extermination of society, to stop the downfall of our country, to fight for our dignity. And it was when, together with the New Democracy that then passed its antimony period, on the one hand, you strengthened the extremities and on the other you sowed the division, separating the Greeks into memorial and antimony, to traitors and patriots. And why am I saying all this now? Beyond the timely and the necessity to pursue self-awareness, so that we understand how we have reached this point, but also not to allow ourselves to make the same mistakes, the debate of today's bill is an extra eighty-degree turn on a high-population issue. Today, discussing the third recapitalisation of our banking system, which you propose, it turns out that there are no pilgrims on the one hand and unreservedly patriots on the other. There is only reality on the one hand and idealism on the other. Because this third recapitalisation is the result, on the one hand, of the destiny of Mr Varoufakis - no matter how much Mr Tsakalotus's galany wants to relieve him - and on the other hand, of the ignorance and ideas of the government as a whole. This need to recapitalise the banks didn't come from the sky. It is the result of your ten-month administration and it loads some tens of billions of euros in addition to the Greek people's back. In addition, we run and do not arrive, in order to prevent the haircut of the deposits, which the Greek depositors will fatally suffer if the recapitalisation is not completed by 31 December. According to the Bank of Greece data, the lower the deposits in four years, the longer they fell to six months, the months of your own government. At the same time, we have a vertical increase in red loans, so that the banks' liquidity is nullified. The conclusion is that the need for recapitalisation is, of course, a one-way road today, but could have been avoided. Just in June 2015 - Mrs Daniel Nuy, a representative of the ECB, said that the Greek banks are perfectly sound and have sufficient liquidity. How did we get to need a recapitalisation of the Greek banking system in just five months? I fear that we are paying the costs of a revolution, which had nothing to do with it, nor did it work. The political uncertainty that you have created, with your delays in the negotiations and the agreement that you have brought outside the umbrella protection of the support programme, but also with the awarding and useless referendum, engendered the economy and led to a massive outflow of deposits and a total posture of payments. To be absolutely honest, this destabilisation begins in autumn 2014, when the election begins to escalate. These anomalies come to cover the new recapitalisation. Now you understand that banks are not just bankers and big business. The role of banks is to support the real economy and protect the deposits and the last Greek micro-creditor. For the sake of your resistance rhetoric, you are currently establishing that three of the six members of the selection committee, including the President, will be designated by the Union, i.e. the ECB and the EMS. The selection committee shall select the leadership of the Financial Stability Fund. By losing control of this election, however, we are also losing control of the administration of the Greek banks. We are losing control of the banks, because we unfortunately have lost the confidence of the partners for a long time. We cannot guarantee, Mr Stathakis, the collection and independence of the banking system, and let you appear as the guarantors of the conflict. We are thus legislating to protect ourselves. But will this third recapitalisation of the banks succeed? Is that enough to save the Greek banks? Will it finally be the last? The European Central Bank and the SSM mechanism estimate that problematic loans will increase sharply as unemployment increases, wages fall and the market is in recession. It seems obvious. And what do we do about them? The same non-performing loans urgently need a new framework, which we are constantly postponing. The situation we are legislating for is reminiscent of a moving sand. Nevertheless, we continue to legislate, leaving serious ambiguities. What about the privileged shares of the government? What will be the size of the effects on bank bond holders, when state aid is required? How are they going to get retired? What will be the ratio of special convertible bonds, ‘Cocos’, and common shares with which the CFSF will cover its participation? We left it for the last minute and, of course, we're running and we're not getting there now. And, really, what do you intend to do with the Attica Bank? It is demanding that all the technical world of the country understand what has been done and how the Attica Bank, which appears with funds, with deposits of two billion euros, marks capital requirements of EUR 1 billion. By analogy, with systemic banks, it is as if systemic banks needed EUR 50 billion today. These are questions that need to be answered. Perhaps Mr. Spirtzis in his previous capacity has some answers about what you're going to do with the cooperative banks in the new landscape. In addition, banking experts estimate that four hundred banking shops will be closed within three years. This will obviously be followed by voluntary exit programmes for four thousand workers. These four thousand workers will be added to the already gigantic army of the unemployed. These are very critical issues, which should be clarified. Otherwise, they may prevent private individuals from participating in the procedure. If not all of this is solved, the banks will continue to act as JEPs, where the world is in a position to fulfil its obligations towards the public. I would like to remind you that this is a complementary and secondary activity of credit institutions. You have an obligation to help the banks perform their real role. And we all have to do this, that is to say, be a safe haven for citizens' hardships whose statements are, unfortunately, constantly falling. It has already been heard that today is the day of saving. Unfortunately, there is an unprecedented collapse in national savings for our country. It is only 8.4% of GDP, when on the contrary the average in the European Union is 21% with growth trends. Banks need to strengthen the downed small and large business in healthy ways, because it is only what will get us out of the vicious circle of recapitalisations, supporting the production of national wealth and, of course, the creation of solid jobs. So, stop, gentlemen of the government, waste time. The reality of the governance of your country has already confronted you with ghosts that eventually seemed to exist only in your mind. We, Potami, away from ideas, realise that voting for this bill is a one-way road, so that the Greek banking system does not collapse completely, but reminding us that this was not an inevitable one. So we could have other policies avoided loading the hump of the Greek people with some tens of billions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr George-Dimitrios Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin to place myself on the draft legislation under discussion, I would like to observe the circumstances in which we are discussing it today. So yesterday the bill was introduced into the parliamentary committee under the urgency procedure and we are discussing it today in plenary. I mean the following. Last night - I did not participate in the Committee on Finance and I had no knowledge of the bill - at 0.08', that is, eight minutes after midnight, I was notified by e-mail on my mobile phone that the bill was sent to me, to be informed and that we had to be placed on it today. We believe that these conditions should not continue, because, however urgent the circumstances of discussion and voting are, there is also a responsibility from the government, which must take account of the circumstances in which we should legislate. We must legislate with calm, comfort and sobriety. Members cannot, ladies and gentlemen of the government, be called together to support or refuse a bill. I would therefore like this to be noted. I would ask you not to repeat this because it creates a strong pressure, which has an impact on the quality of the legislative work. We cannot say that in a very technical bill, such as the one being discussed today, the House and the Members were given the time in which they understood, understood and contributed. The possibility of contributing to the House in the arrangements of these laws, even though they are technocratic, even though they are detailed and most of us may not have the most specific knowledge. We have, however, - I want to believe - the ability to understand what is going on. And today, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, where are we coming? Plus, I believe in the third recapitalisation of the banks. What does that mean? It means that the two previous ones, which had been announced to bring about the growth of the economy and to save the country, were badly failed. Why have they failed miserably? Because it was done in the same way as today's third. In my first speech to the House, in the programming statements as a new Member, I had asked to refer - and I mentioned - to economic issues. And I said this - and I remembered this today, taking a look at the 'Inspection of Members of Parliament and of the European Parliament' - that it is necessary, before any other detail, to regulate red loans, whether from business or from households. [[At this point, the third Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Cristotopoulos, takes over the presidential office.]] Why did I support this? For the 2012 summary, which brought EUR 50 billion into the banks' funds, has become redundant. Why was he dismantled? Because the economy was - and continued - in its position, which, in fact, was deteriorating, and no one then managed to make a decision to regulate the loans of households and the loans of businesses. What did that mean? It meant that the banks continued to write damages, operate loss-making and this money, 50 billion, all that served was the bank's operational needs. But I must say that they also served the public's operational needs. It is well known that the PSI and all of this took out resources from the national economy. So in 2012, the banks have actually been stalled. As much as it sounds that the administrations remained, as much as we say the private sector had, these banks are state-owned and remain. In 2014, there was an effort to recapitalise the banks by the private sector. It's done, too. Private sector contributed. He failed. Why did he fail? Because the problem of bank pollution has still not been solved. Business loans and households and loans continue to be included in the banks’ balance sheets and to increase losses, reduce the solvency ratio and capital adequacy ratio. So, before discussing this bill, we should have discussed a draft law on the regulation of red loans to both households and business. It's the one-way road that will lead the economy out of this stagnation, to which it is sinking today. Why? Because it does not even sound like an attempt to eradicate, there is no attempt to regulate business loans, so the economy cannot continue. I must, of course, say, before I comment on the arrangements in the bill, that we will vote on it, because we are going to vote on it. We cannot take responsibility for not voting on this bill, when we know that if it is voted against, the banks will be eliminated tomorrow. And it will not only be the banks, the entire national economy will be dismantled, and we will reach the country's naughty bankruptcy. But we want to say this: it is not enough today to regulate the banks, which is also the case with regard to the facts. So we are talking today about recapitalisation, but at 11 o'clock an hour and a half we have received knowledge of the bank's capital needs. Previously, we didn't know about them. I expected to see them legislated according to the 2012 regulation, which is what is to be made available. In 2012, 50 billion had been committed to the banks, which, of course, became air, disappeared. So I waited today to see what the needs are in the text of the law. But, unfortunately, where he tells us what the fund resources and funds are, what the law tells us? It tells us that funds from the fund are the resources that will be invaded. We have no opportunity, therefore, to see what needs for bank deficits are, unless we take into account the stress test, which has been launched. I would also like to say at this point about the time responsibilities of all governments, ladies and gentlemen. In 2012 we had already entered the crisis and the Greek economy had been in the cathode. From 2012 to 2015, the problems could have been raised and resolved. Unfortunately, however, they got worse. Because, good or bad, in 2014 - I have the list released - the banks' stock market value reached 15 billion. In the last eight months, the stock market value of banks - systemic, of course - is EUR 2,885 billion. Of this, 90% of the banks' capital was lost. If measures had been taken, if the government had made progress - and I am speaking about the responsibilities of the SYRIZA Government in the last ten months that it has completed today - this damage would not exist. And what the government is asking today is for us to approve and vote on the recapitalisation of the banks, which, as I see it, is currently facing between EUR 13.8 billion and EUR 14.2 billion. If the government had stood and helped the economy, if the participation of the CFSF had moved on to the stock or to investors, this question of bank recapitalisation would have been overdue, it would have been cleaned up from within, and there would have been no need today for the deferrals made or the new arrangements. Because we have to say that we are concerned about the fact that the so-called bail in question is the law of the state and applies from the first day of the new year. In this case the economy will have been ahead of us, will the banks have been able to operate in normal conditions, or will new capital support be needed, because we do not even know what deficit will arise in the first half of 2016 or at the end of 2016? And then what? Will the minimum deposits be eliminated? It has been said quite rightly that today is the Day of Saving. We have forgotten the word saving the Greeks. With the incomes of the average Greek, she's forgotten! Even the "fat" that any family had and that was exhausted. How, then, can we say that we expect success in this system? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will finish right away, Madam President. I therefore think that the government should work on this Monday: not only should Mr Tsakalotos say that he expects the Act of the Ministerial Council to be adopted. The issue of red loans must be dealt with. Let's move on to deletions. Since the money at the moment - well or badly - will be given to the banks, it cannot remain and the banks will continue to write further losses in their balance sheets since loans are not served. Therefore, debt write-offs need to be set up in the long term to extend business loans to enable the economy and banks to channel money to the economy. This recapitalisation cannot channel money to the economy, because they will be kept by the banks under whatever administrations they are designated to have the so-called capital adequacy which they have in any case retreat every day. So we're going to vote on the bill, because we're sliding, as I said. We shall necessarily vote for it and we shall be very critical of what is happening from now on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me, Madam President, to point out this for thirty seconds: of course, we shall also vote on the following articles and not only the first article, which is, in fact, the new recapitalisation legislation. We also have to vote on Article 2 on the special liquidation of banks, which tells us that the law passed this summer needs to be improved. It tells us that the law introducing the directive must be improved. We don't understand that. We believe, however, that the vote on this article is of some value. Of course, the recovery and resolution of the banks is an obligation, which has arisen from the third memorandum. One question that will concern me - and I am ending with this - is this: is the deferred bank tax still going to be deferred? What about this tax? Will it be capitalized? We do not know or answer your law, Minister. The law says that from 1-1-2016 some solutions will be attempted. We'll see these along the way. Of course, we also agree on cooperatives. However, we do not know whether credit cooperatives are left in Greece, which can be helped. We read in the news that seven credit cooperatives were placed under special liquidation, and I do not want to mention in which areas. In this sense, therefore, we believe that the government in this resolution of the bill it will receive from Parliament does not exhaust its obligations and responsibilities, because it is an instrument, a transitional stage in which it has to prove that it can do so. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Madam President. I, first of all, note that it is positive that opposition parties - which means that the regulation on the recapitalisation of banks is in the right direction - are voting in principle on the draft bill. I welcome this and believe that it is the best thing to have a consensus path as much as possible in this House. I would also like us to remember that apart from one party - I respect it - which was contrary to the urgency procedure, no other party has complained because I imagine that we are all aware that recapitalisation - which Mario Draghi himself has disconnected from the question of evaluation - is a prerequisite to discussing debt regulation, which we all know is a loop that should be taken sooner or later if we want the economy to go forward. I also welcome this as a positive one. By becoming a positive opposition, for me this is how democracy works - and that is how it has to work - and alas if it was not. However, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to land a little bit in a reality that we have lived in recent years. We must not forget that there is a marginal atmosphere throughout society, where three - four bankers behind the canals almost regulated the entire political system. I don't think you've heard of it and I don't think you have a different opinion, many of you. Handmade proof of this is the EUR 808 million - the figures are from the Bank of Greece, they are not our numbers - which the media owe, and indeed, without guarantees, many of them. I think it should be answered in a period of austerity that certain companies, not particularly blossom at the time, were receiving loans. I think justice is doing its job right. On 12 November - and I am not speaking with evil - we are calling on those who have taken loans to answer, in principle, whether or not they are served by guarantees. Let us not forget yet that the Agricultural Bank - and I think we all agree - gave five billion to three hundred borrowers with guarantees, names and surnames - and we have these things - and there is the surrounding atmosphere that it was a waste of public money. This bank, meanwhile - to say it all - was sold instead of a lenten board to another private bank around EUR 98 million, in view of the fact that the building that is in Edward Law at least two years ago was costed by some at EUR 1 billion. I say this, ladies and gentlemen - and I add a few more - to see how the banking system operated the previous period. We must not forget that Proton Bank was given to a man - and I do not say names - I did, when I was not a MP, but now it makes no sense - when all the inspectors of the Bank of Greece said to the then governor "don't give it to the bank, that man does not qualify". However, the bank was given. In fact, the then Minister for Economic Affairs, on the pretext that the banking system must be stabilised, has allocated around EUR 100 million. But when he saw that the scandal - today all of these people were confiscated - could not stop it, there was a special amendment that effectively defended that choice to give the EUR 100 million. Let us not forget yet that another bank, Aspi Welfare, is still suffering more than eight hundred thousands of citizens. And her commanding officer is a convicted, perhaps also confiscated. I don't remember how many people left when the felony went down. Let us not forget the Post Bank - so loved for many, and I still believe - that it worked at the time, when millions were leaving by hundreds, without any guarantee. And those then, I remember, denounced the course of a black money, swept away in the worst way. Let us not forget that another bank, the First Business Bank, was given to two people who are currently indicted in justice. This reality - I don't think anyone could question it - had to change. He couldn't go on. He does nothing more and nothing less of this bill. It shall, in principle, establish transparency. He could have flaws too. It may also have points that should be corrected. The sure thing is that the absolute immunity of a banking system, which we all respect, could not continue, we all want to see it healthy and tough and where it should be, if we really want our economy to function, and especially the small and medium-sized ones who need it. I heard that the banks are losing their Greek identity, because three of the six members of the committee that oversees almost everything - and it is for two years, it is not for a hundred years - are determined by the institutions, two by the Finance Minister and one by the Bank of Greece. I think it is a serious act to do that, at last, for too many reasons. I would like to remind you that Mario Draghi himself, who has been swept away - for me badly - by many Greek politicians, who perhaps did not know exactly how this banker works, confessed to helping us with 120 billion in the very tough period when some people were at risk with Grexit - and not only in Greece everywhere - by cutting the deposits and saying. We're talking about 120 billion. No reason? That's right. I would also like to highlight and say that there is a surrounding atmosphere - we have heard it not many times - that the deposits will get bored, not only by over 100 thousand, but also under 100 000. We know this can't be done. This has already been avoided. However, the most important thing that has not been dealt with in the past is red loans. Very rightly Mr Stathakis said: Children, 2010 was 10% of red loans, at the end of 2014 was 40%, today may have increased a little further. That means something happened at the time. In other words, it is not 'fruit' at the last minute. There I believe that the government - if you will excuse the popular expression - must give its change. It is incomprehensible that I want to believe for all of us here, who are in this House: a man who once had an income that allowed him to pay EUR 500 today, without any responsibility for it, cannot give the same amount and he stopped paying. It's something we need to see. I believe that the proposals are in a positive direction and we need to see them here in Parliament as a whole. I do not think this is a success for this government. It is a sacred obligation on the social strata, which is not to blame, frankly, for what has happened in our country. I would like to finish - and I will not waste time, Madam President, because I think we should be brief - to say that I consider it very positive that opposition parties too are voting on it. What happened with the parties never repeating itself. I have listened with respect to high-profile economists in this House, who respect them, and I know that they are perfectionists, that is to say, that they are looking for them and finding them. They can't pay their employees right now. The loans of the two major parties then reached over 200,000,000 euros. I would like us to be more conscientious when we do incredible economic analyses and we cannot settle our own house. I would like to believe that they will be a past with this bill that embraces the whole of the Greek Parliament in a positive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr Papachristopoulos, for the time. Mr. Meimarakis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to reiterate that we strongly disagree with the way the government chooses to vote so critically on the urgent procedure. We disagree, because there is nothing else to justify the urgency or urgency procedure, since they did not come as a surprise. The government knew them, promised them, signed them. All that he's known since August, before we even got to the elections. However, since the elections to date, he did not bring any bills with normal parliamentary procedures to the House and it turns out that even to that the Prime Minister and his ministers forgot what they were saying in election. They have forgotten what they said against the exceptional and concise procedures, which were perfectly justified by the government at the time, they have forgotten what they were committed to, for substantial dialogue. The only thing is for sure that, unfortunately, with the incompetence, the government has been constantly downgrading Parliament and affected by democratic institutions by its irresponsibility. As you can see, this cannot go on. Remember what you were saying about the previous House and how it worked. In any case, respect Parliament. And the answer is not 'and you did the same'. First, why didn't we do it? There were specific reasons on the part of the government. Secondly, even if I get into your logic, you have not come to do the same and worse, but you have come to do the same thing, as at least you promised everyone, and so you have reached their vote. The second thing I would like to stress is that the recapitalisation of the banks must proceed without any further delay. That is why we are voting for it, not because you are acting in this way, but because we must protect the depositors, we must not move to a haircut. That's why we had to ask you for delays and for you had created a turbulence and an insecurity. That is why it is necessary, because banks must return to normality, regain the confidence of depositors and, as they do, act as a tool for growth in support of entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs. We therefore believe that there is a real need for no further delay, that the deposits, as there were government ministers for haircuts, should not be extra crime against the Greeks. In order not to do so we have already called for the evaluation to be disconnected from the recapitalisation, so that we can move forward. We are pleased that the Europeans and you who brought the bill came to understand from our own pressure. Because we, as always, now and now, gentlemen of the government, are putting the country's interest above any party interest, which is why we are voting on this bill. The third point that the citizens need to know is why we have reached today's bill, because it is necessary for your own recapitalisation to be recapitalised, what damage these banks have suffered, because they have suffered it, how this has been done. So clearly - instead of listening to the various arguments that cannot support your view - we say that this recapitalisation is not due to the economic crisis, as was the previous one. It is necessary and necessary to do so by the irresponsible policy pursued by the coup d'état in its first term of office, even though we had already pointed it out to her. It was necessary, because the uncertainty and the concern which the government caused in the first half of the year caused huge deposits to leave. And you know that, because we have official evidence. The truth is not hidden or questioned. In 2014, the banks, after that recapitalisation, stabilised and in June 2015 we have the official report of the Bank of Greece confirming that the banks at the end of 2014 were sufficiently capitalised and would withstand. They have again gained access to international markets and have made significant increases in share capital. They successfully went through an overall assessment carried out by the European Central Bank with particularly strict assumptions. They zeroed their dependence on the emergency support mechanism from the European Central Bank with the known ELA. At the end of 2014, the State’s shares in the banks amounted to EUR 15 billion. The situation, however, changed radically in 2015 and the government, due to its mismanagement, brought the banking system to the edge of the cliff. Because of the experiment he irresponsibly set up, in our opinion, he closed the banks and imposed the capital controls. I note, for example, that from December 2014 to July 2015 total bank deposits and repos were reduced, according to official figures, by EUR 50 billion. In the same period, non-performing loans were rapidly increased because of the return to the recession. The international markets have closed down and practically no operations have been done on the interbank market. So all this is due to the acts and omissions of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and had a negative impact on both liquidity and the solvency of the system. And I must tell you that in the report by the European Central Bank, which has just been made public - I do not know if you have read it - and in particular on page 57 - I will present it to you to read it - it says that this recapitalisation is due to the 2015 and 2016 recession, to the capital restrictions that your government has put, to the closure of the banks, which have been made on your own government, and to the measures that you have taken, such as taxes, pension cuts, etc. It is the report of the European Central Bank which has just been given us. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Evangelos - Vassilis Meimarakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, funding through the ELA has now reached EUR 85 billion from zero at the end of 2014. At the same time, overall financing through the Eurosystem reached EUR 125 billion, for the first time exceeding the amount of deposits from households and businesses. Things took dramatic proportions, when the government, by resorting to that pretext referendum, left the country completely unprotected and out of programme. But the government was well aware - and we told her exactly that on that day - that without a programme the European Central Bank could not give additional liquidity through the ELA. The government was well aware - and we discussed it that day - that without liquidity from the European Central Bank it would close banks and impose capital controls. You knew and we talked about it the day we talked about the referendum. Although we pointed this out to you, even though before the vote on the referendum at 3.00 p.m. you knew - and there was a formal announcement from the European Central Bank - you did not hesitate. You voted for the referendum in knowledge that the banks are closing and in knowledge that we are going to the restriction and that there will be no ELA. Of course, then you were not ministers. It was Mr Varoufakis who, however, told us that he was after it, because he came home happy at night and said "Darling, I closed the banks". Darling, the recapitalisation is now 14.4 billion dollars, which the Greek people will pay for! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So you deliberately allowed the programme to expire. You closed the banks, you put the capital controls and when you opened the stock exchange - you all remember that, these are facts and they are not questioned - the bank shares collapsed completely. The citizens who had invested in bank shares, after your own direction of investment in bank shares, lost about four fifths of their money. And you know it and you recognize it and we need to see how they get it again. Because the State had the value of its bank shares. Of the 15 billion fell to 3 billion euros, that is, 12 billion were lost from public property by these wrong moves. So who's gonna pay for this? Moreover, in addition to what has been lost, it will be necessary for the banks to be recapitalised, as you have agreed, to sign up for huge amounts now identified. There you arrived, within a few months, billions made wings. We are not talking about 'fifteen's', which Mr Friend told us. We're talking about billions, and you have to tell us how to find these. We're talking about huge sums. We are talking about the costs already borne by taxpayers. What else will taxpayers pay so that you, as apprentice magicians, can do experiments on their back? Because we are talking about new borrowings taken by the government and these loans, as we all see, are being given in very tough terms, under new austerity measures, under dramatic increases in taxes and pension cuts. What has happened since the beginning of the year and in particular with the appropriate closure of banks and capital controls has been a crime. It's a crime where the Greeks paid it, and we pay it dearly. Crime for which you are solely responsible SYRIZA and ANEL. I would like to remind you that until recently, since 2008, you have been the ones who, instead of looking responsiblely at things, have invested in populism. When the government introduced the 28 billion-dollar package to credit institutions, you claimed that we were giving the banks some billions. Remember them or did you forget them? Do you not feel today the need to apologize for the great fuss you made on the 28 billion guarantees package that was made in 2008? Because the truth is that this package was ultimately an important tool to support the banking system, which not only cost the citizen but also brought revenues. We told you then that the state budget would receive dividends from that arrangement. So she called. He received dividends and commissions of around 4 billion, without a single euro being charged by the Greek taxpayer. Four billion went into the Treasury. So here is what the New Democracy's difference is with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Here's how we moved in 2008 and 2014 and here's how you move, where this recapitalisation takes place only because of your own governmental behaviour and measures. It was thus demonstrated that, when there was rational planning, as it existed in 2008 and 2014, public and private can coexist harmoniously, to operate for the benefit of society and the economy. And yet, instead of SYRIZA - ANEL government building on a framework that worked, it shattered it all in a few months. Trapped in ideas and myths, trapped and captured in hallucinations and theories of games, you led us there, though today you tell us that those who had the opinion of the games, little or much, do not belong to you because they left you. But then you supported them, then you went together. At that time Mr Varoufakis was the "god" of the government and all SYRIZA applauded him. We believe that you have already plunged the country into insecurity. It is terrible, a few weeks after the elections, rather than a sense of stability, certainty and quiet there is a sense of uncertainty and concern. That's what citizens live with every day, because they don't know what dawns them. In other words, the country is not actually governed, and that is expensive. You told us that the first time you did not govern, but that now, the second time, you will rule. Nor does it seem the second time that you are ruling, and that is the big issue, because every day that passes costs the economy, it costs households, the small and medium-sized ones, and it is becoming more and more. Slide, gentlemen of the coup d'état, finally three times the country in the polls over the last few months. You have been vigilant with false promises of many votes. You formed two governments, you irresponsibly played the first term, you charged the country with new burdens, you carried all payments from October onwards, because you would have had elections in September - you had full planning on them - and you cut the country's feet, while she was walking from the end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015, as predictions were. You have now made the second government. Unfortunately, you don't rule. This cannot go on. It is dramatic that time passes and is lost. The people tell us that the good captain in the furu looks. But Mr. Tsipras told us it's not for the whole time. He can't be a captain at all times. I mean, he just wants to be when the weather's mild. If they catch the bottles, we leave the wheel and we look who else gets it and how he'll give it to him. Well, you need to catch the helm. You should all go up on the bridge together. You need to see how you're going to proceed. We will vote for it and make our criticisms. We'll give you a vote on this bill to restore the trust of the depositors in the bank so that the banks can function as a tool for growth. That's all. So that we can really help you and lead you and drag you away from the ideas that keep you captive backwards and you also hold the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u201	The Minister, Mr. Stathakis, has the floor for thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely good that this bill has the consent of the large majority of the House. At the same time, however, the question arises as to whether this bill is due to the fact that SYRIZA - ANEL were selected twice during the year by Greek citizens and whether this option was that led the country's economy to a destructive orbit which, firstly, imposed a new agreement with the partners and, secondly, the need to recapitalisation. So we have to respond to this criticism. Let me remind you directly that we have received from the previous government a memorandum 2 which, if I recall correctly, you have not closed. Now, would you advise us why we didn't turn it off? Are you telling us that he would give the prospect of the Greek economy? The question is reversed. Why didn't you shut it down? Didn't you have time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u203	Is that what we did?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u204	Why did you shoot us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u205	Why did you shoot us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u206	You had elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u207	Oh, because we fired you! Secondly, you tell us that we have changed economic policy and that we have gone to a renegotiation with the partners. I would remind you that on the basis of Memorandum 2 and in the medium term Greece was invited to pay 48 billion. from 2015 to 2018, with surpluses of 4.5% of GDP, if I remember well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u208	And at growth rate?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u209	And at a growth rate of 1% to 2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u210	Where's 1% to 2%?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u211	Growth rate 3% to 3.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u212	I'm sorry. Yeah, 3% to 3.5%. The 2014 balance sheet was, as you know, zero. The government therefore opts for a basic strategy: first, to raise the question of the restructuring of the short-term debt of ECU 48 billion. and carry it forward, from a short-term obligation of the next four years to a thirty-year loan. This is called debt restructuring. At the same time, it chooses to make the debt strategy sustainable after 2022 with a commitment to the agreement. Thirdly, it chooses to pursue a banking recapitalisation strategy, not generally because developments have led to this disaster, but at the expense of a new development - which you have never mentioned at all - the consolidation of the banking system from 1-1-2016 and the betting system, the four banks fully join the new system with all the benefits and guarantees that it offers for the stability of the banking system. Therefore, at the expense of this data, I am coming back to the major issue if integration in this system was complete, without doing anything or would require radical responses to critical issues. For the banks that you are referring to, for four years, I would remind you that they did not do any restructuring aid for the red loans, which on 31-12-2014 - not to say in 2015 that we brought the red loans - was 39.8% of the financing of these banks. These are the accumulated red loans, which in progress and the year you call for, in 2014- year magical as it turns out, only we and the Greek citizens did not evaluate it in the year 2014- increased nine units. The progress of red loans therefore made the overall system of de facto viability, given its inclusion in the new situation, problematic. It is important, however, that we also see the climate of withdrawal from the banks during the election period, before we become a government in January, over the last three weeks. Now, since when the elections have been a threat to economic stability in European democratic countries, I do not know. It is a theory that will once be founded. But, logically, the catastrophe that the elections bring economic catastrophe can only be based on the fact that the election climate and the political forces that join the elections together with anything else create a climate of unrest in society. I would remind you, therefore, that these three weeks before the elections, where, if SYRIZA were to come out, the health paper would disappear, the country would be destroyed, we would leave the euro, there would be an incredible mess, because there is no choice for the citizens to choose - certainly none of this happened, as far as I know - that about 20, 18, 19 billion of deposits were lost, I repeat, for no reason exists. Now we're going to the issue of the disaster of 2015. The results are simple data too. For the Greek economy, you reiterated the projection of the ECB, which is an agreement, Mr Vorides, which was signed in August and provided for these amounts: 2,3 to 3.5 and so forth. Everyone appreciates - and you will recognize it - that the recession in 2015 will be much lower. Just 1,3 is the last valuation. I also told you in committee that there is a clear interpretation of this. It overthrows the catastrophe scenario and there are interpretations about it. I repeat that the capital controls, which were not our choice - you understand, everyone understands it in this Chamber - should in theory bring about a great recession in the economy. The way the Government handles capital controls on the day after the introduction of capital controls was one of the very successful functions of the government, because I recall and repeat in this House: A number of decisions were taken, which ensured the smooth operation, first of all of the tourism sector at the peak of summer, with full operation of tens of activities linked to tourism. Secondly, the smooth operation of the shipping exchange. Thirdly, the smooth course of the country's imports and exports. Fourthly, the decentralisation of all the decisions taken by companies in the traditional branches and within the banking system and the limitation of the Commission which took decisions in very high sizes and so on. These are given the consequences on the real economy of an effort - successful from the result - to minimise and no problems in the smooth functioning of imports - exports and the real economy. For this reason and because of other circumstances, I think that the result of the recession, which you are implying, will be what is reflected in the real economy's data and is therefore a long way from the idea of catastrophe. For the nature of this recapitalisation, I would remind you that for us as a government, you cannot say that other things we talked about before and after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u213	That's all!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u214	God forbid!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u215	I would remind you, despite the intensity of the smile you have, that we have signed an agreement before we go to the elections in August. And we went to elections with the deal. So we were chosen by the Greek citizens to implement this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u216	Why didn't you go on and go to elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u217	So as to the idea that we are bringing a bill that is different today, there is in the agreement. Clearly. And there are all three key points that we have said about what we are going to do by Christmas. The first key point is that we will complete our first evaluation. The second is that we will recapitalise the banks and include them in the European system on 1 January. And the third key point is that there will be a full implementation of measures, which we have directly formulated, initiatives by the government and others, which are aimed at a strong shift in the economy in 2016. These are the facts, which have been clearly formulated and for which, among other things, I stress it - we Greek citizens have chosen to govern in the coming years. I now come to the nature of this recapitalisation agreement. Is it different from the previous ones or not? It differs in three points and I would like to highlight them. Firstly, it is confronted at the same time with the process of restructuring the red loans, for which the government has made a clear position and has a specific strategy. It is, however, the subject of negotiation which, as you know, will be completed at the end of November. The restructuring process of the red loans is therefore parallel to the recapitalisation process of the banks. This creates the conditions for a definitive response to the banking problem in relation to the past. This is the one fundamental difference, in relation to the previous recapitalisations and it is of enormous importance. I would remind you that the previous recapitalisations - I can tell you for a long time the government's losses - were 39 billion, 13.5 billion to integrate the problems - and as they have done - banks integrated into the four systems and 25 billion which had been made 15 billion, I think, long before the SYRIZA's 'destructive policy' begins. Thus, the sums were already 25 billion lost. And there have always been the 10 billion that had remained a stand by in order to be used primarily to restructure red loans. One section is this. The second section concerns the operation of shares in the public and public interest. The previous regulations obviously provided for common shares, which were, however, made privileged as a whole. You don't disagree with that, Mr. Voridis. There's never been a right...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u218	But when did it happen? From 2014 onwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u219	Today the law is clear. It provides for the conversion of all public shares into ordinary shares. All sides must recognise that there is a delicate balance. This also concerns all sides of the House, because there has been a systematic criticism. Today there is a difficult equation, which we must all understand. They are the old shareholders, private and public. They are the privileged shares of the State, which will be converted into ordinary shares. They are the confessors, the people who have borrowed the banks and are the new shareholders. The balance, the equation between these four categories, must be completely balanced in order to ensure that the interests of the public are fully safeguarded and at the same time not to discourage the introduction, attracting private capital, which I imagine we all want. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me two minutes, Madam President. The third issue you are criticising us concerns the administrations of the banks and the CFS. I have the impression that recapitalisation without predictions for a change of administration was a Greek originality. We have implemented it in the past few years. The administrations of the banks, which threw the banks on the rocks, have generally remained the same. The projections before the recapitalisation - it is important - are Greek patents. Wherever other recapitalisations were made with strong public presence, administrations changed. It doesn't mean they've been made state-of-the-art or anything else. This law provides for stricter rules for the control of administrations, greater transparency and a way of identifying these procedures, which is not the perfect one and does not find us 100% in agreement, but raises an issue that should have been regulated for some time. I repeat: our economy has very well known key points. A key point is what we do today. We all hope that the smooth development of this crucial issue, the recapitalisation of banks, will lead the banking system to the absolute security that we all want and we are committed to Greek citizens that it must be completed by this Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u220	Madam President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u221	Here, Mr. Maymarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do not want to take the time because it is also discussed with the urgent article, but I feel the need to mention two - three political issues, Mr Minister. Firstly, when we brought the recapitalisations, Mr Chakalotos and you, as SYRIZA rapporteurs, voted against them, with arguments that you would do well to see in the Minutes, to understand what you were saying then and what you are saying today. So we're not the same. We vote for it. This does not mean, however, that we do not have the arguments you had to come to the recapitalisation. It is absolutely only your actions, as is apparent from the report by the European Central Bank, which I have just tabled. An hour ago, you're going to read it. Secondly - because you have referred to two, three political issues - the elections do not create a disturbance, as you have said. In other countries, the euro area is happening and there is no huge problem. Why was he here? Because the party that came to power did not recognize the country's obligations. See your election speech, that you'll tear them all apart, that you won't pay anything, that you don't recognize the country's obligations. That's what created instability and uncertainty. And now, I would say, the elections were held without the citizens knowing what you signed and brought it under the urgency procedure on 15 August. That's why you quickly made them. January and earlier, in 2012, the elections took place in twenty days. The citizens, however, were aware of the framework on which the country would come to pass for the next three years. Now I'm telling you they didn't know. That is why these elections have brought about even greater turbulence. Consequently, the argument that, "we were chosen by the people, after we signed", is not true because it was simply not even discussed in the House in one day. Finally, you told us about the statements they left. I heard Mr. Tsakalotus the other day. If the Members of Parliament had so much power to say that they will take their statements and leave and so many testimonies have left in this way, then you are giving us supernatural powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u223	That doesn't help, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u224	No, it's not helping. Look, however, it cannot be used as a political argument within the House. It's not right on your side. It is a deterioration in the level of dialogue. Do you forget what you personally said every time we brought a bill 2012-2014? We could therefore say that you put the economy in jeopardy. But it was a political point of view. It was your political expression. And in any case, I don't understand, will you humiliate us? That's what a congressman wanted to say, that's what he said. He was judged by the citizens and was judged in the elections in Genoa and was judged very well. Therefore, these are no excuses now to discuss them in such a serious bill, which we agree with. Finally, I would like to tell you because you were wrong, but I did not understand if you corrected it, that the growth rate which we predicted was 3%. Secondly, the November 2012 agreement was planned after the assessment to go to debt restructuring. You were talking about a haircut. You weren't talking about restructuring. Did you forget that you do not recognize it, that it was disgraceful, that your Prime Minister went to the debate opened by the President of Parliament at the time on the shameful debt, while, at the same time, Varoufakis met and discussed how the new agreement would be made? These are not all ours, they are your achievements. And on the basis of these achievements, we have led to failures. And it is necessary at the moment to recapitalise, which I say we are voting on to protect depositors, so that we do not go to deposits haircuts. And we are showing a great national attitude to this bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u225	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute. I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u226	You have the floor, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u227	Minister, we have said so on many occasions that we welcome your return to reality and the acceptance of the truth on many issues. But there is a long distance between truth and cynicism. And it is quite cynical to say that the Greek people voted for you in September with the agreement you had since August. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u228	Madam President, I would like to inform the House that a tragic air accident occurred just now with two hundred and twenty dead. The information I have is absolutely recent, ladies and gentlemen. We want as PASOK to express our grief for this. It's a flight from Egypt to St. Petersburg. Guys, families, a real eclipse. We're reacting to this. We had the opinion, Madam President, that we had to suspend the procedure for this communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Leventis, you have the floor for twelve minutes. Please be accurate in your time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law on the recapitalisation of banks. I believe you have realised that this recapitalisation is necessary because black holes have emerged from non-performing loans of all kinds, both housing and business. So banks, no matter how much money they get, they need more. So with mathematical accuracy and what you're doing today and the money we're going to give - 15 billion euros, how much they did - they won't, because the black hole - as I have warned - will increase. Meanwhile, property prices have fallen, so banks of whatever guarantees they have put up, have less value. So the banks are in the air. Also, private money is gone because there is a lack of trust. So you realise that today and to vote on the bill - and the Central Association said that it would vote - we have no profit, no profit! Just messing up and just postponing. And the talk 'vote, because otherwise the statements will get tired' is an inappropriate word. I don't know who told her. However, whoever said it, whether it is in this Chamber or outside the Chamber, this debate 'or vote to be recapitulated or, as of 1 January, the statements are tired', does not belong to a democratic country. That reminds Zimbabwe, Bolivia and so forth. That's my opinion. Because they said that this conversation was said. I don't know where the government's going. There are discussions until they move borrowers into smaller apartments and a new process is slowly introduced. If you have one hundred and eighty-square apartment, you can go to ninety-square, if that's what you can pay for. This has happened elsewhere in the world? I guess not. Even that's discussed. Imagine where the country is. We are now talking about lowering the level of the loan that is protected so that there can also be loans for confiscation and transfer of families - so they say - in smaller apartments, for which they will be able to pay the instalment. Find me a country in the world where this thing has been done and adopted! Third worlds are better than us! I hear them say about the equivalents. They're looking for equivalents, traffic charges, one, the other, things unthinkable. Now we are going to put traffic charges on the hybrids, which we were calling on the citizens five years ago to take without traffic charges. We should load the KTEOs, he says. That's what's on TVs. And the government doesn't come out directly to tell her opinion. He lets them crawl as a kitten and what turns out. The country along with me is inseparable. I'm so sorry. I have heard that Mr Kammens is thinking of a bill not to vote for it and that the government will withdraw it. That's how I heard. That's what TVs say. I didn't know what kind of bill that was to be honest. I did not know if he changed his mind and would vote or if he actually insists on his refusal. So the government, so-called majority, is fragile and questionable. Why is he in question? Because that's what I said in the first place. Mr Kammenos's party is an extreme right-wing party. And I'm not saying that against Mr. Kammenos. The positions and views of his executives are extreme. An extreme right party, like Mr Kammenos, and a so-called left party, do not join. It's made of non-consumable materials. These materials do not bind together. And if you united them for the purpose of governing the country, then you will see that they do not unite because they lack the culture of understanding and consensus through them. Society's upset. The journalists ask me: 'If the government has a problem, what will you do, Mr Leventis?' I didn't want it to be like this. I do not intend to vote for any government or bills of law as a whole. If SYRIZA wants to, we can sit down and talk in public. Because you are looking for equivalents, and we in the Centro Association have set up a nine-point programme that outweighs the equivalents of five hundred and a thousand times. But you do not agree to discuss it. So where are you going with this? To come in a nice morning, to be with the knife in the neck and to vote for the party under me some of your bills, because you will have broken it with Mr. Kammenos or there will have been an insurgent. Because there is another version: Kammenos may vote so that he does not lose the "partner" and there can be an insurgent within your party. Why don't you think the barbarians all went with Lafazani. There are still "barbarides" within the walls of SYRIZA. And so you're taking it blackmail to vote. We don't intend to do this. We intend to do what we have said in the election. Whether the New Democracy comes out or SYRIZA comes out, we are about to discuss the nine parts of our programme, which we consider to be essential for the self-determination of the country and the self-determination of the public and private sectors. At political level we agree to discuss. This is the command of the people. Let me sit in a chair and discuss with the sieges in order to vote, that's not to expect. It's a delusion if they're waiting for it. I'm not gonna work this way. They ask me: 'It is not selfish a party that took 3.5% to impose its positions on 36%?' You also know from European governments that a small party leader has often become Prime Minister too. In Italy often 4%, 5% made the Prime Minister and others just voted. You know that. In democracies, there is the principle of understanding. Either elections are held or parties are agreed. It's not selfish at all. Mitsotakis once had a hundred fifty and with one, Katsiki, one was dragging him out of the nose. Remember. You know how governments form and how they get the declared one. And today the declared hanging by four MPs. There's a fifth who sometimes votes and sometimes not. However, I am very concerned about the fact that society is in a turmoil and this Chamber does not understand it. This Chamber does not understand society. Wherever I go, I meet unemployed. Wherever I go, they're approaching me poor, everyone's with a single euro in the pocket. What will happen to this world? The crime took place in 2009, when George Papandreou went and made a memorandum without a development clause in it. He also put the IMF, and it was known that the IMF, where he went, left calamities and returned the countries a hundred years back. There was the crime, the others continued it. And the New Democracy, which is now being cut and says that it is a party of responsibility, within five years it has become a memorial and two other antimony! I don't know what a sign of responsibility that is. In other words, before the September elections, he was voting for the bills for reasons of urgency, so as not to leave the euro, and now he is not voting on them! The same bills, the same spirit and the same letter. I do not understand the New Democracy where it goes if it is responsible. He's talking about a constitutional bow. Constitutional arch means constitutional responsibility. Being in the constitutional arch says nothing. There's your behavior on critical issues too. We have a government that I fear has lost its self-control and an Opposition that is trying to find its pace and uses the country's economy to do so. I warn you to know in this Chamber that as long as society feels that it is not understood by the three hundred of this Hall, as long as society feels that way, abstention and apocalyptic messages will increase in percentages and numbers. If you think you three hundred people are represented, you are mistaken. The people are suffering, the people are in panic. And you do what you represent him. I don't think you're representing him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u231	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Pappas will be ahead of you because he has been asking to speak at 3 p.m. for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u233	Okay, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for ten minutes. And then, Mr. Venizelo, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the entire Greek banking sector has been critically affected by the combined effect - from September 2014 onwards until August 2015, private sector deposits have been reduced by 43.6 billion, i.e. we have had a reduction in deposits of 26.5%, of which 33.9 billion. they concern household deposits - and, secondly, unfavourable economic conditions, which caused a deterioration in the quality of the loan portfolios, i.e. non-performing loans increased from 33% to 50% in the third quarter of 2015. The course of the banks is intertwined with the course of the economy. When an economy is in recession, all forms of life and economic and social and households and culture, education, defence and, of course, banks are affected. However, this recapitalisation is the third capital aid to banks and is the result of the new derailment of the economy and the worsening of non-performing loans, due to the misguided policy followed by both SYRIZA and the failed Samara government, the government of the famous myth of the sucess story. In spring 2014, the stock exchange value of the four systemic banks reached EUR 25 billion and has been reduced to EUR 3.1 billion today. Whoops, if a bank stays with capital and needs new money, the ones who put the new funds will also take control of it. The old shareholders of the banks have lost over 99.9% of the value of their assets in relation to pre-crisis prices. Shareholders in the 2013 and 2014 recapitalisations lose 90% of their capital. The group of investors that bought the majority of a particular bank bought it at EUR 0,31 per share in spring 2014, and today sees its share negotiating at EUR 0,020. The same has happened to investors involved in capital increases and the remaining three systemic banks. Great, then, are the damages to both the Financial Support Fund and therefore to all taxpayers. The fund placed EUR 25 billion in the systemic banks in 2013 and an additional EUR 15 billion in the restructuring of banks that were wound up. EUR 40 billion, therefore, after the derailment of the economy in 2015, were definitively lost. The recapitalisation of the banks is an interim stage in order to restore the bank’s solvency and through it the normality conditions will gradually revert to the market. The recapitalisation of the Greek banks is supported, as is said, by their solvency, i.e. they have sufficient equity. But the question of their liquidity is not solved, as banks are business and even foreign companies, as Mr Tsakalotos himself said yesterday: "We lost the battle for the administration of the banks." These banks are therefore companies that are borrowed to lend. They don't lend their own funds. We wrongly believe that the banks lend themselves with the money they have taken from their recapitalisation. The recapitalisation of systemically important banks would like it to be a prerequisite for them to be stabilised, to become operative and gradually to be able to re-market, issue bonds, resort to the interbank market and attract deposits in order to increase the pool from which they can grant loans. Banks therefore do not provide loans to the economy based on their own funds, which on average internationally do not exceed 10% of their assets, but on credit funds raised by depositors, the interbank market and bond markets. The banks are the only group of enterprises that is borrowed to lend. At present banks have a capital deficit, have a loan portfolio of 200 billion. Adopted by the Commission on 18 December. The euro. The difference, of course, is covered by the European Central Bank. Many, if there is no return to deposits and the interbank market does not open, banks will not be able to respond effectively to the task of financing the economy. If there is no liquidity, banks will not be able to finance the real economy, i.e. to lend loans to businesses and therefore the economy will not develop. The risk in case the banks are not recapitalised is great, but much greater the risk for the future of our country, the future of our people. With your memorial policies you are not only indebted to him, you are impoverishing him, but you are making him a hostage to the distorting and disastrous policies of the European Union and to the international loan sharks. You're saving the banks, but you're ruining the country! Of course, if banks and depositors are not saved, they will suffer a great blow, as will tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, at risk of even extinction, but which is already taking place with geometric progress and is achieved with the daily padlocks that we all see. Whether you recapitalise the banks or not, that's the same thing. Whether you're making a deposit haircut or not, it's the same. Because the haircut is already in place. It was heard by a government majority lips that under no circumstances, even in the worst scenario, deposits of less than 100 thousand euros are at risk. This would indeed be the case if the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund set up by the n. 3746/2009, he had the reserve that was legally required until last summer. So the government, last summer, within the stress of finding funds to meet needs, illegally removed these funds, leaving completely exposed depositors with deposits of less than 100 thousand euros, i.e. all small depositors. So the haircut is already applied indirectly. It applies a special bail in, through overtaxation, through overtaxation of citizens' real estate. This forces households to reduce their deposits, forces citizens to liquidate their assets at degrading prices, so that they can meet their unbearable obligations to the state. And all that with state revenues ending up with creditors, for the repayment of a non-viable debt, since the International Monetary Fund itself claims that the lowest primary surpluses, the absence of reforms and revenues, the return of the economy to the recession and the most unfavourable forecasts after capital controls have made the debt definitively unsustainable. In fact, the recapitalisation of the banks is another patch, another unbearable patch for the Greek people, who are called upon to offer a sum that will be lost, will go to the ape of the Danaides. And that is because there is no such thing as the Samara government did not exist, a real plan, a medium-term and long-term development plan focusing on national and people's interests alone. In conclusion, the people must know what you are doing today in this Chamber and in what way, in essence, you are being criminalised against it. Today and you charge the Greek people with tens of billions of euros, which will be paid even today by the unborn Greeks, and, moreover, you are actually doing the deposit haircut. You take, you snatch, through the banks, the sweat of the Greek people. As I said before, this haircut is not immediate, it is not a single, but a much more subtle and continuous one. It is achieved by overtaxation, the memorial measures of the third memorandum, which all of you together, except the Golden Dawn, voted on August 14th. You voted against the people's will. The popular will was expressed in the July referendum when you received a bronze "no" from the Greeks. Finally, the banks will survive. They'll survive because they have excellent bank officials. And I don't mean the guise workers. I mean you, the systemic parliamentarians, you are being cut and you are voting for the interests of loan sharks and banks and you are ignoring the popular interest. Vote and behave as mercy of God monarchs with mercilessness, with courage and you think you will always be. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Fortunately for this place you won't always be. You, on the right and on the left, know that the people do not want you, regardless of whether the people just throw a ballot behind the complaint. And you have all seen the polls - which you so much love and pay - about the opinion of the Greek people and about the New Democracy and about SYRIZA - of course SYRIZA as a new PASOK, that is, about you who brought the country into this situation. We are voting against the bill that charges the Greek people and pays the banks much more when these banks themselves, the taco-sculpture vultures, with your agreement, have been ready since Monday 2 November to auction and grab the houses of the Greeks. We say 'no' again 'no'. We're not going to be a homeless country. Let me also mention here the political statement made by SYRIZA Dimitris Phile. I am presenting for the record the statements made by Mr Dimitris Phile. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He said, "Let the citizens go out with the shotgun if they go to pick up the homes of the poor." A declaration probably fully in line with Article 120 of the Constitution. And at this point let no Hatziavat of the trespassing 'paragus', no 'panathinabis', incorporate my political speech into criminal litigation. If he's going to do it, let him do it for Mr. Dimitris Phile, because the real criminal organisation, the Parliamentary Camora - I would say - are all you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u236	To express the grief of all the wings of the Parliament, namely the Greek Parliament, for the tragic air accident that took place on a Russian plane on Mount Sinai, Egypt, is an essential task for us, because it has resulted in the loss of the lives of many people on board this fatal aircraft. Mr. Venizelo, I give you generously seven minutes so you don't get any more time. I have also seen that you can justify your amendment sufficiently in a very short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u237	I don't have that ability. Ladies and gentlemen, when the previous bank recapitalisations were made following the outbreak of the crisis and the country's entry into an adjustment and reconstruction programme, Parliament knew by voting on the relevant laws what the exact shape of the recapitalisation is, what we ask private shareholders, old and young, and what the state is ready to offer through the Financial Support Fund and at the expense of the Greek people, is a burden of the public debt. This is not the case with this bill. This recapitalisation, due to the errors, the failures and the damage caused by the Tsipra - Kammenos government, is in fact in the absence of the House. The House is today voting vaguely and tomorrow the Ministerial Council, acting by an act of the Ministerial Council, will identify the most crucial elements of the process and the shape of the recapitalisation. That doesn't give rise to questions? Should it not be discussed in the House? I have heard a lot about the debate today and yesterday in the committees. Between 2012 and 2014, ladies and gentlemen, the country had to face a giant deposit leak, the recession, the expansion of non-performing loans. However, due to the sustainable intervention made in the public debt in 2012 - an intervention that we have said is not only the nominal reduction, the haircut with the PSI, but also a equally significant reduction in net present value through the OSI, the Official Sector Involvement - the government gained, as a benefit, from the banks about EUR 23 billion. But it is not this energy that has caused the need to recapitalisation. The need for recapitalisation was caused by non-performing loans, problematic loan portfolios due to the recession due to the downturn in the Greek economy. But we had to protect the system, protect the deposits. So the recapitalisation was not support for the bankers, i.e. support for the old shareholders and especially the large shareholders, but was support for the banks, so the deposits and the possibility of the Greek economy to resurrect, to move. Because without the mechanism of the banks you cannot power the real economy, investment, employment. From 2012 to 2014 we thus attracted more than EUR 13 billion of international private capital invested in the Greek banking system, due to the progressively built credibility of the Greek economy. The State invested a total of 39 instead of the 50 billion planned, of which 25 for the recapitalisation of systemic banks and 14 for the liquidation of non-systemic banks, with full protection of deposits. The liquidators have already managed to gather about 2.5 billion from the 14 and this process continues. The portfolio acquired by the HFSF on behalf of the Greek State from the 25 billion that were placed in the systemic banks came to have in May 2014, before the European elections, a stock exchange value of 25 billion euros, i.e. we had full recovery. According to the debt sustainability study, the prospect was to acquire 16 billion, as a return, when the Greek economy is about to walk, that is, much later. And already in May 2014, we had a stock exchange value of 25 billion. The uncertainty caused by the European elections and due to the forthcoming SYRIZA election victory reached the following picture: On December 31, 2014, despite the pressure, despite the election campaign, the stock market value exceeds EUR 19 billion. And today, as you know, after the referendum, after the capital controls, after the damage caused by the nine month Tsipras - Kammenos in the Greek economy, the value of the Greek government's portfolio in banks is less than 2 billion. In other words, we have a loss that, in theory, as notional loss - but this is the dynamics of the economy - is more than EUR 23 billion from the original portfolio, at May 2014 prices, and at the same time we need to borrow 25 more for the needs of recapitalisation. You will tell me: we will not make it available, because the needs even in the most unfavourable scenario today have been announced that it is, say, 14.5 billion. However, the remaining 10 must exist somewhere as a reserve, as was the case with the 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund, which Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis delivered to the European Mechanisms, to the EFSF, with the notorious agreement of 20 February, which took us out of the CFS reserve, in addition to all the other dramatic consequences that the course had from February to 12 July. Because if we had finally concluded and implemented the agreement of 20 February, it would have been a much better country than the one with the agreement of 12 July. The country's damage between 1 January and 20 February is large and even vaster between 20 February and 12 July. Now, then, the government comes and says the well-known vagueness over red loans. It says that we have now taken account of red loans, and it knows very well that, firstly, the Katseli law to protect the weak borrower is our work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish, Madam President. Don't push me. I think it is important that these should be heard and written in the Minutes of the House. Mrs Katseli is now a fan and a SYRIZA official, but the law that bears her name is the work of our own governments. He also knows - and I want Greek citizens to hear this from the Step of the House - that there is no real problem with housing and consumer loans. There is no problem with the household loans, unless we are talking about excessive situations of very prosperous people. But for the normal Greek average there is no problem of housing or consumer loan. The solutions are easy, the solutions are friendly, the solutions are safe, and these solutions want and the Greek banking system will impose them. There are no first home auctions and it is a pity from God, after so many years, now near 2016, that there will be doubt and anxiety if there will be first home auctions. No, no matter what the legislation says, regardless of the vagueness, the lies, the demagogues that we have heard from the government, there is no real problem with household loans, housing or consumer loans. But there is a problem with business loans. Because the way in which the bank portfolio was assessed, the assessment of their asset element, AQR, actually creates a barrier to the lending of small and medium-sized Greek enterprises in the future. The big problem we have now to face as a state, as a parliament, as a economy is the future, if, on the basis of the rules put in place for evaluation and hence, for the purpose of determining capital needs, we can really borrow a medium-sized and small enterprise at an open rate, or if we are committed to a great structural inequality in money costs within the Eurozone, as is the case with the cost of energy. That is the big issue, and that is what we need to solve as a problem if we want the banking system to function as a lever for growth and as a focus of the new model of reconstruction of the Greek economy. Because now that Distress funds are to appear, now that the debate on the restructuring of business loans and businesses begins, now if you don't have a model of growth, if you don't have a pro-investment strategy, if you don't know how to answer the questions that they make you in America or elsewhere in the world about these issues, and you smuggle inseparable verbs, you can't help big businesses, but above all you can't help the small and medium-sized Greek business, which you capture in incomprehensible interest rates. That's the big deal. The big thing, therefore, is that now, because a new loss of deposits of 42 billion has been caused, because we have hanged on to ELA over the past few months, because they are growing up because of the hardship and the return to recession, the unhelpful loans have been made, because the colossal trading errors have been made, because of the 'yes' referendum, 'yes', 'yes', because we went to capital controls by decision and action of the Greek Government and not of the European Central Bank, we had the stock exchange depreciation of the banks, the disappearance of the CSF portfolio, the third memorandum and the colossal loan of 86 billion, while they did not want to take the remaining instalments of the previous loan. You remember that. They didn't want to. They were "superior" and "leafing" and they wanted a bridge program! So what is happening now is, in fact, the need to protect future loans to small and medium-sized enterprises at a reasonable interest rate and, secondly, not to undermine the confidence of the international investment community, which has already put more than 13 billion in the Greek banking system over the last three years. So there are no ambiguities and ambiguities and it is not possible that the House does not know what the final shape is. Because what's the problem? The problem is, we said that if private individuals put 10%, they would have privileges in the administration, but under multiple supervision: the European Central Bank, the Single Supervisory Mechanism, the CFS, the Bank of Greece, Greek public. Now what's the shape? Now the government does not say in Parliament, public participation in the recapitalisation for the opposite scenario....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Venizelo, please, speed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u239	... what percentage will be made with common shares and what percentage will be made with convertible bonds, with interest. This is all about because it will depend on who controls the general assembly, the administration and what opportunities the individual has to make to obtain financial gains, but what opportunities the public can afford to get back to the 25 billion that Mr Tsipras has put in, and what Mr Kammenos has done with Mr Kammenos - and what is going to happen about the ten that he will have to put now, if we do not have any other problem, which I hope we do not have. So it is not possible that the House should not know. With the amendment I propose that paragraphs should be added to Rule 1 and Article 4 so that the acts of the Ministerial Council and all the regulations of the executive adopted pursuant to this law are immediately notified to the House so that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Members or the Minister wishes to initiate the relevant procedure for discussion in committees or even in plenary. The information of the House and the intervention of the House is in this respect different from the obligation of the Financial Stability Fund to report to the House, as the Bank of Greece submits. Now I'm not talking about the cashier or the bank. I am talking about the government handling these issues and must deal with them transparently under the control of the House, because during the previous phases the House had included them in the relevant laws. To close, the debate will be concluded shortly. I didn't hear anything. I have not heard the government apologize or explain why it has caused the damage it caused. He's not apologizing, he's not giving any explanation of lies, slanders, novels. What happened? You just changed your mind and nothing's wrong? Didn't the tail of the donkey crumble? Such cynicism? Such arrogance? Such authoritarianism? Or just such a dangerous incapacity, such a complete delivery to the lenders? Because we've gone to the other end, to zealism. In order for the government to prove that it would destroy the country with its previous policy and thus rightly came to our own policy, it has become a blind zeal in the harsh implementation of the memorandum. That's not good. It does not help either the country or the economy. What the country needs to do with national consensus is to present a comprehensive national reconstruction plan that starts from the implementation of the memorandum, but goes beyond the memorandum. Or we'll hunt our tail as a country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo. You have taken advantage of the tabling of the amendment for a full speech, over and above the time of Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u241	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u242	What do you want, Mr. Balaura?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u243	Madam President, I would like to use my term of dentistry...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u244	No, because we still have many speakers. It's Speaker's time. Mr. Koutsoukos now has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u245	See, Mr President, where this systemic violation of parliamentary procedures results from the government. We have reached almost ten hours since the start of the debate and only two or three Members have spoken. I think I'm the fourth, and I'm probably gonna owe you a favor, as it turns out. Ladies and gentlemen, since the morning I have been following the debate and the angular effort made by the ministers of the government, who have preceded - and Mr Tsakalots and Mr Stathakis - to tell us that they are ruthless. In fact, Mr. Tsakalotos also used some verbal acrobatics for patrioticism and "baroufakism" to tell us that it was not the Baroufakis' fault. Obviously, it's not the Baroofakis' fault. It is the fault of Mr Tsipras and the same person who was Mr Varoufakis' assistant for what happened. I'm saying this to know exactly what happened. I have to admit from this step that I have made a mistaken assessment. When Mr Varoufakis humiliated Greece in Riga, I said by addressing the majority MPs that "favourable colleagues, because I know your agony, when this work is over, Mr Varoufakis will give interviews and will receive inheritors!" I fell out. He's not collecting pigeons, collecting fifty. I say it to restore the truth. I apologise for this misunderstood assessment. Mr. Stathakis has now talked to us about the wet, but he forgot to say about the drowned man, based on the popular proverb. Because he told us that "you forget that you wanted 48 billion euros in 2015-2018", which the Greek economy could not handle with this GDP and these surpluses. Evidently, Mr Stathakis forgot to say that there was another plan, a plan that said that after five years of labor and sacrifices of the Greek people the Greek economy managed, for the first time since 2009, to have primary surpluses - since 15.2% of GDP that we had in 2009, to have a primary surplus - to have for the first time growth in the last quarter of 2014, to have agreed that international organisations would go to development and that for the first time unemployment began to fall. This positive scenario we wanted to use to close the second memorandum - which Mr Stathakis accused us of not closing - and to move on to the markets to finance the needs of the Greek public. And who prevented that, ladies and gentlemen? SYRIZA's policy prevented it. Let's remind you of this. And where did you drive us? The third memorial, the most prestigious! Therefore, remember the ‘child pleasure’ of mail Hardouvelis with the measures of EUR 1 billion, to go to measures of approximately EUR 6,5 billion in the period 2015-2016 in the third memorandum. But are these, ladies and gentlemen, related to the bill under discussion? Obviously they are related if we see that the effects on the banking system of this policy were dramatic. Our banks have borrowed 90 billion euros from ELA. The outflow of the deposits was EUR 42 billion. And, obviously, the share value of the shares was depleted over this period. That is why recapitulation is now necessary, but not sufficient, as I said yesterday in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, fine, your finalism has led us to this need. Is that at no cost? No one's gonna pay for it? I am not referring to political responsibilities, because we are not the committees of inquiry, Mr Lover has reminded you of that. Well, doesn't that have any cost? Obviously! The first cost is the "live" 15 billion euros lost by the Greek State by depreciating the bank's share value, which is the property of the Financial Stability Fund, thus the property of the Greek people. And the second cost is what the Greek State will now pay to recapitalise the banks: EUR 4.5 billion with the basic scenario or EUR 14.5 billion with evil. I heard Mr. Stathakis and Mr. Tsakalotos, and I didn't understand well. They are pleased with this development, that the low scenario does not say 15 billion and says four billion, and evil says fourteen and a half billion.Huh? I do not think anyone should be pleased, even if we consider that all this money will not be of the CFSF, but it will also be private capital, which otherwise could go to development. So this costs the SYRIZA - ANEL 30 billion and will be charged with debt and the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, does this bill ensure growth, the reintroduction of banks to normality and deposits? First, the bill itself predicts that the worst may happen. We hope it doesn't happen. However, our fear of the government's inability to relaunch the Greek economy is confirmed by the draft budget report and by what we are now living in, even though the government says we will have less recession and celebrate it. The fact is that the government is debiting the recovery of the Greek economy from the low growth rate in recession. I'm coming to the last point. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do you remember what the Prime Minister said from this Step? I do not want to refer to statements by Mr Tsakalotou or Mr Stathakis, because it is a book that we have to table with what they were saying here in the House. So the Prime Minister said in the programming statements here in Parliament on 8 February that he would abolish the immunity of the Financial Stability Fund. Have you read what the bill we're voting on provides? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Madam President. The Prime Minister said here on October 5, twenty-five days ago, that recapitalisation with public money will ensure the corresponding management, i.e. public management. Have you read what the bill provides for? The bill provides that management is handed over to our lenders. It's not even the responsibility of the Treasury. So what Mr. Drasakis did, when you became the government of Genaris, who went and haggled with the administrations, now Mr. Chakalotos can't do it. The Evaluation Committee is controlled by creditors and it will make the choices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because I have to finish, and after I started with Mr. Chakaloto, I will finish with Mr. Chakaloto. He also made us a review of the sense of humor. It's acceptable. Minister, because you constantly invoke the sacred Augustine, can you tell me what he says about confession and repentance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u246	Once...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u247	Tell us, let's see if you ever ask for an apology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u248	The Minister has asked for the floor to put forward some legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the legislative improvements. You will see that most are legal corrections. It is clear that all acts of the Ministerial Council will have FEK and so not only will the House be aware, but the entire Greek people. If it is something that you may consider more than corrigendum, it is that for the Cocos and Common Equity Decision, in addition to the opinion of the Bank of Greece, we will also take the opinion of the Financial Stability Fund. I don't think that's something anyone's gonna object to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u250	But get both SSM and EVA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u251	As far as the two amendments are concerned, one is for VAT, so we will discuss this when we discuss VAT next week, and the other is for cooperative workers, whom I committed yesterday to Mr Karathanasopoulos in committee, that the government will look into this with a very favourable attitude in a subsequent bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Psariano has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Madam President. I will start with Mr Tsakalotos as he made the interventions and corrections and additions and changes. I want to make the statement that Mr. Chakalotos, Eukleidis, is a good guy. I mean, he deserves me. I've said it a long time ago. He's a good guy. He boldly supported Yani with one n, whose case, of course, carried the suitcase for seven months. But he boldly supported him on his own, and he did well. But, in political terms, Minister, this tough negotiation of Yianni, the seven-month tough negotiations, had these results, which you and the Prime Minister have tried in two weeks and in seventeen hours to correct, to salvage what could be saved last minute. You did well. It was a useful piruetta, it was a useful ass for the country, and you did very well. The rescue of the financial system is to save poor bank shareholders. Are we constantly giving the Greek taxpayers the money to save shareholders punctuated, perhaps fraudulent, and we will be constantly at risk of the depositors' deposits? Because that is your logic: support for banks and big businessmen at the expense of the social majority, without clearing the risky loans from bank portfolios. What you're doing is throwing more money, money from Greeks, taxpayers, into a barrel without the bottom. That's what the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, said a few months ago about the bank recapitalisation discussions, because then the recapitalisations were made for the interests and slaves and employees of interests, and now they are for the people's families, for the pain of the people. Now the banks are populace, not the big sharks of capital, who drink the blood of the people in the stove. Now these banks are good, the same ones we'll recapitalize. We will support it, as you have not at all done at any time, in any draft bill, no proposal, either of lenders, blackmailers, murderers, blood suckers. Is that right? At no time did you support any such amendment, even addition, even one draft bill. You never voted! We will support this. It is not the best way, it is not the best way, but we will support it, as we support other things and we have supported it in the direction of reforms, but, as the country needs, to become a normal European country rather than a right-wing reactionary policy, the first and second left-wing government with taxes, taxes, taxes and whether 23% is in beef or in education, which I fear will be in both meat and education. Like the bank recapitalisation will be done for both good and bad. It will also be for the people and the interests. You'll do everything in duplicate. Once the Prime Minister had also said, a while ago, that we will do or will not turn three hundred sixty degrees. He meant a hundred and eighty, because it makes no sense to turn three hundred sixty degrees. Of course, with light jumpers, the Prime Minister turned a hundred and eighty degrees - and well he did - but now he adds the other hundred eighty degrees and takes them to three hundred sixty. So we're going where we were going, that these lenders are blackmailing us or putting our gun to the head, etc. And in all this literature and the fairy tale of the enemies of Europe, which we wanted to see otherwise in Europe. Of course, everybody else wants it, and they say otherwise. Everyone wants Europe, but otherwise. Yes, but this is Europe, that's what we have. Let's make it better. But we must work with this Europe, because we are part of it. This second-time parliament of the left-wing government "SYRIZA - ANEXEL", opened the weekend's Parliament inaugurated in this second time. So far we have had the legislative acts, presidential decrees, something quickly within the week. Now we have all week relaxation and we run for the weekend, Friday and Saturday night to vote, with the gun on the head. Why? So we don't have greases and reactions, and we have losses? Or is it because we have to press - kout to vote on Saturday? We are the 'September of the weekend'. Why did we do that? Can't we agree on basic things that we should have done on our own so we wouldn't be voting for a weekend with the gun on the head? If you want to go through what you have to go through, do it by presidential decrees or by legislative acts. We don't have to run on weekends too! A number of legislative acts have been passed. The banks will be recapitalised by the government, which was contrary to the recapitalisation of the banks before, on the two of them. Because before the recapitalisation of the banks, the Government took the lead in the recapitalisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to tell you that in Portugal, Ireland and Cyprus, which came out of the memoranda the day before yesterday, they have made a draft national consensus on the reconstruction of the country, on the restoration of the damage, which we suffered on our own responsibility or on other responsibilities and on bad recipes, of course, which we have implemented even worse with taxes and not with reforms, so that we do not harm the customer state, which was the complexity and corruption of the others, but now we want to make it our own strife and corruption. We want the canals of others to go - whom I, as you know, am a miserable instrument, whether I am also an employee of some of these great interests - but now we are going to put on the channels of others. And we'll check who gets these channels. Are we going to replace the existence of corruption and involvement of others with our own, or are we going to make a national consensual reconstruction plan for the country, the whole of the House, except for those who do not want and those who should not? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] All the rest of us can do that? We can do it! Why don't we do it? We were the old German german germans, "merkelists", "dogologists", "Kuislings", "Tsolakoglou" and "Tsirimos". Now that you too are 'Kuislings', 'Cririmos', 'dogs', 'German germans' and 'American giraffes', and now that we are all of 'the interests', why not? Why don't we all do it together now? To save the country from this misery, in which, if we had agreed in 2010 on the first 'bad memorandum' to apply its parts that we should have implemented, we would now discuss the problems of other countries. And still like the dog, we're chasing our tail! I would like to say to you that I am not going to get into the logic of 'German girls' or 'American girls'. Nor will I say that we do not agree with the commemorations of the'solds', but we agree with the memoranda of the 'builts'. What's the opposite? Let us say: 'the purchasers'. We agree with what needs to be done to change the country. There were no other people's memorials that were bad, and ours is the third, the best. There were no sea-lovings and canals of others, who were dirty, and ours are the good ones. There were no others' 'bads' and we will now have our own best ENVYs, who are 'good'. For the people's families, these are ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u254	Please, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u255	I'm sorry, Madam President, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u256	Yes, but there are lacking speakers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u257	Like the bank loans of contractors, we were breaking bars and saying 'I don't pay, I don't pay', because it was national debt not to pay, and now it's 'pay' because it's a national patriotic duty! These are insanity and schizophrenia, Ministers and colleagues, left-wing and right-wing and sprayed and everyone else. Did we fix the fuel smuggling? Or do we have the good smuggling of ours and have we not touched them? This GPS measure, which we would put to control input-output in fuel, which has been voted on for some years, have we done so? Oh, no! We're on it too! Why should we go into the logic of this left-wing government, which is completely right-wing, rational and practicable? Last but not least, I will mention immigration, only because today they have drowned, dozens of people have died and every day with a terrible, colossal hypocrisy. Let us have put a ship from Cesme or Chanakale to go the immigrants directly over or make a passage to the fence for refugees, so that we do not drown them in the seas and sell populism and sensuality for the value of the life of a young child who is drowning, who we are driving to drown. Why not put it on a ship and on a bus to the border or in Central Europe? Why did we break up the Almondsa to make twenty almonds that won't be better? These must be given answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u258	Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u259	Let me say one last, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u260	No, Mr. Fisherian, it's not happening now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u261	One Minister said to me: 'The others did the same'. You're not the others!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we here to discuss another recapitalisation? Is it because of the seven-month rule? Definitely not. From 2010 to December 2014, the real economy was fought hard, resulting in the closure of two hundred and fifty thousand businesses. We all see the desert roads in the city, which were sometimes alive with open shops and people running around, shopping and participating in the form of GDP. Traders and craftsmen were on the road, small, large businesses, small, large shops, small, large craft industries, what we call'small enterprises', healthy businesses, without loans or any loans that were served. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] These small and medium-sized enterprises, which, because of your policy, were the companies that invested in Greece, have invested in the real economy. They are the people who "feeded the cow of the economy" and not those who "harminate the cow of the economy". Those who "harminate the cow of the economy" are the well-known families who dwell here in Lefkanopedio. You have managed to deliver trade to foreigners with your policy. The same picture is available on the streets with the crafts and industries in Thessaloniki. Whole areas, such as Sindos, Lagada, Koufalias and others, have been devastated because of closed factories, which have been closed down because of your policies. Amongst these, we should not forget businesses and factories that either carried their activities entirely abroad or carried their tax head office abroad. One of these is the largest copper processing plant in Greece, with 12% of the total export value of our country. All these enterprises were strengthening GDP and keeping the banks healthy. All we need to remember is that in 2009, when PASOK took over, public debt was 300 billion to 120% of GDP and deposits to 290 billion. After successive PASOK governments, Papademos, New Democracy, you handed over the country in January 2015 with a debt of 185% of GDP, i.e. raise the debt ratio - GDP by 50% - your great success! - and downloaded the Greeks' deposits under 140 billion, i.e. lowering the Greeks' deposits by 50%. The responsibility is solely yours. The government today is trying to heal, correct your own criminal mistakes. Even the strangers admitted that their recipe was wrong and you continued in the same recipe. Why is that? Yes, you were saying there was no other solution. Instead of trying to find another solution with the strangers, you said, "There is no other solution", that is, kings. This draft strengthens the role of the Financial Stability Fund as a mechanism for strengthening the Greek banking system. The fund will be involved in the recapitalisation of the banks. His role and his financial contribution will be important. The aim is better coordination for the recovery of the economy. The fund will have an increased role in the administration of the banks and will assess their management boards. So, on the one hand, they will manage the banks carefully and on the other hand the investment efforts of the Greeks will not be indifferent, but, on the other, they will be indifferent. Significantly, cooperative banks, which have an important task, are also being strengthened. Support for their members through financing their business activity - investment, working capital, etc. - it's vital. The real economy has close ties with cooperative banks. The proposed legislation facilitates the strengthening of the capital base of cooperative banks with private capital. The recapitalisation of credit institutions ensures their proper functioning, their solvency vis-à-vis depositors and their role in the development of the real economy by providing loans to enterprises and by facilitating all their activities, with the hope that the real economy will regain. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill is in the right direction and we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u264	Thank you Mr. George Lazarides from the Independent Greeks. Mr Saridis Ioannis has the floor from the Centroon Union. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, there have been many positions and proposals here since this morning. I agree with several of them. Besides, the time demands compassion as a stronger weapon of successful claim. However, I believe that, in order to be able to fight and counter the so strong and dangerous attacks, which are not all of them, you must have negotiating weapons and not a lion-shaped division. And to have powerful weapons, you must know to listen, to know how to judge, to tell truths, to have conscience, to be honest. Respecting the time and the trouble of those of us who have actually sat down and read this bill, I will not refer to the quality of the government's legislative work nor shall I insist on the equitable procedures that you have followed, which have not gone a year since you yourself described them as unacceptable. Read your speech last year, gentlemen, on parliamentary procedures. That's real cybism, you know. What you have been saying is that you are now applying them. However, as I know - and according to what the government has said, the Greek people also knew when they voted in September - that this vote is a key energy on the part of the Greek state in a series of multi-level European procedures, so that we can throw the arm of capital control over us. A number of institutions, organisations, investors, institutions and, of course, a large number of political leaders have contributed to this process, so that the present vote is, as we have said, the responsible political attitude. This does not change the fact that these political decisions are being made under the extortion regime, under the threat of the breakdown of the banking system. We deliver control of the backbone of our economy with sophisticated and impressive laws and at the same time disprove the Greeks' expectations of progress and development. We must explain to the Greeks at some point what we are voting on these days in the Greek Parliament. In trying to understand what we are being called to vote today, so that I can explain it to the citizens who sent me here, I have come to the safe conclusion that the banks will not open up without the help of the European partners and help from the Europeans we will not get if we have not first delivered the banks. And that's what we're doing here today. But it is important for me to convey the common feeling to this Chamber as I have received it. Since we've already paid them a couple of times and a lot of money, since we've made sure no one really can get away with it, now we're going to give them our homes? Step one in this direction is precisely the recapitalisation of the banks, in this violent way proposed in this bill. Understanding the responsibility of being forced to choose the least between two evils, I admit that this is exactly what we are doing here today: we choose from two evils to the smallest. Ladies and gentlemen, one wonders: Why does the National Bank of Greece not sell Finansbank to Turkey to ensure that the funds necessary for the recapitalisation are available? Is it possible to keep our cottages when our house is in danger? Why not propose, with the present, to return part of the 40 billion that came out of the country with your own fault in 2015? Why not give incentives to return this money on your part? If they go back to 15 billion by the end of the year, will the banks need recapitalisation? Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the point where the words go too far. I will read you a sentence from the first page of the explanatory statement that you delivered to us a day ago, which explains what we are voting on and why. So write, Minister, "the fund is called upon to manage the last attempt to recover the economy" and you sign it. So tell us, last try your own, last effort by the Greek people, last attempt by lenders, last attempt by the "first time left"? Because I assure you that the country will continue to have needs in the economy and after this bill and after your term of office and after the "first time left". The Union of Centres does not retreat from dialogue. The Centro Association is not making last attempts. The Centro Association doesn't give up. The political mortgage of the President of Vassili Leventis, among other things, requires perseverance and patience. I reiterate our commitment to be present, to fight for the consensus and goodness of this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr Ioannis Saridis, for the Centroon Association. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes. If you make a little time savings, like the previous ones, even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u267	I do not promise you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u268	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is essential to enable the country to enter a solid-based development path, with a sound banking system that can guarantee the country's productive reconstruction, a banking system that has capital adequacy, but - most importantly - will have a serious guarantee of credibility in the international banking environment. Because the bill we are debating today does not simply address the problem of capital adequacy, as is apparent from the stress test announced. It is also trying to address the deepest problem of the Greek banking system, as built by the Transpolitics until now, a banking mirror system of a political system, a banking system characterised by unreliability and structured in the context of "days". Why else would anyone explain the sea loans granted without guarantees, loans without business plans, which have often resulted in foreign banks as deposits? Or should we rather remember the loans on the interactive channels and the fierce loans of PASOK and New Democracy? Will anyone really explain what happened with the Agricultural Bank and the 5.5 billion that have come to the prosecutor? How are you going to explain to the farmers, who at night remembered to defend themselves, that their property was delivered overnight to a super-trapezzite, and with little or no million, while at least in the last two years it had cost the public 5 billion? Will anyone explain from the governments of PASOK and New Democracy who have built it and maintained it for decades? Because this system is their own vision for banks and development: customer service, stickers and keyboards. We have another concept of banks: a reliable banking system, a banking system that is different from the neoliberal model. We are aiming at restoring the sound functioning of the banks so that they can play the role of the economy's blood donor again for the benefit of society. We are aiming at a banking system that will support the country's real productive reconstruction. However, we must respond today convincingly to the citizens, not to the opposition - what is the need for yet another recapitalisation of the banks, after the two previous, failed after all. At the same time, we need to explain why this will be the last to be required on the road towards the recovery of the Greek economy. The need for the recapitalisation of the banks today is firstly due to the fact that the previous recapitalisation efforts did not address the operative cause of the recapitalisation, which is no other than the red loans. We heard that the pace of our governance has increased, but it is certain that in 2010 red loans were at 10%, while at the end of 2014 they were at 40%. And red loans have not been launched for any other reason than the crisis, recession and unemployment. Today the government, along with the recapitalisation of the banks, has chosen to go ahead with the regulation of red loans. And as the Minister said before, these are two actions that are being taken at the same time and will be completed at the same time and that is very important. It is also due to the deterioration of the Greek economy, which was created as a result of the efforts of foreign and domestic neoliberal forces to destabilise the left-wing government and thus acted on this vision they have always had: left-hand parentheses. Thus, even before the January elections, an unprecedented deposit leak was launched, motivated by the government at the time, by the first-class ministers and by large-scale banks, who have never been controlled. It is never-known and at the same time unacceptable Greek Minister to say that he will make his money from Greece if SYRIZA wins the elections and is now also a candidate. I have evidence of simple depositors calling them from the banks to make their money before the January elections. And it is indicative that from the 49 billion that finally left the last year, 13 of them, 1/3, left before the January elections, so not in our own governance. In their attempt to hurt SYRIZA, the interests of the country were affected. The attempt to destabilise the SYRIZA - ANEL government has continued since the early days with the unprecedented economic suffocation imposed in the country: the lifting of waiver, weekly approvals for the ELA with the drop-off, refusal by the European Central Bank to increase the threshold of 15 billion in the issue of offender stamps. Finally, it is due to the bad management of the banks. It is characteristic that the International Monetary Fund in a recent report states that bank mismanagement may be the main cause of the problems of the Greek banking system and the Greek economy in general. The draft law introduces the assessment of bank administrations and their ongoing accountability to the evaluating committee. This committee, in turn, will be accountable to the Minister of Finance and the Board of Directors of the CFS, but mainly to the Greek Parliament, at least twice a year. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill hopes that it will be the last thing it will be necessary to recapitalise our country's banks. We hope that very soon the Greek banks will be able to achieve their real purpose as an important instrument for financing the country's productive reconstruction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We have been looking forward to a financial system free of the diseases of an unreliable political system that has prevailed over the last forty years. We urge you to support the efforts of the Greek Government to provide a definitive solution to the banking system in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Nektario Santorinio from SYRIZA. Mr. Christos Dimas has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Once again we are discussing a very critical draft by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with the urgency procedure. Two things happen because you have known for a long time, ladies of the SYRIZA, that the draft law on the recapitalisation of banks had to come: either you have been unduly late, which I believe, or you did not want an organised debate to be held in Parliament, which I do not believe. In any case, however, Minister, you do not call this responsible governance. He said that three teachers are enough to lose their homeland. I am sure that as far as these three teachers are concerned, at least Vismark had neither Mr Varoufakis nor Mr Tsakalotos nor Mr Stathakis. The reality is, however, that the three specific ministers with the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, are largely responsible for the fact that we are discussing a new recapitalisation of the banks today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u272	So three teachers and a politician.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Balaura, you'll have your dentistry. You can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u274	No, no. That was three teachers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u275	I would like to remind you, therefore, that, when the New Democracy was the government, the deposits in the Greek banking system were increased and increased because they had largely restored faith in the banking system by the citizens. The flight of funds from the banking system started in December 2014 and by July 2015 had left the banking system 42 billion euros. I think we all remember what happened from December 2014 onwards. Let me remind you, though. I am sure that you also remember the policy of creative ambiguity, remember the proud and dignified negotiation, remember the referendum 'fesco'. Until we arrived in July, where the Tsipras - Cammenos government imposed the limitation of funds, the great capital controls. Mr Stathakis is missing, but I know the sensitivity of the entire Ministerial Council on red loans. Let me tell you that I am sure you know that, when the banking system is imposed, non-performing loans are increasing. The last priority a citizen or business will have is to go pay the loan instalment. So we are waiting for a great deal of deterioration in red loans because of the imposition of the capital reduction. If the Tsipras - Kammenos governments had not served for eight months in this unscrupulous and disastrous political choice, we would simply not have had the need for this recapitalisation today. The proof that the need for the new recapitalisation was born by your failures comes from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the European Central Bank, Ms. Noui, who stated on 2 June that the Greek banks remain well capitalised. I also make her statement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, until June 2015, there is no need to recapitalisation. But do you remember what happened since June 2015? Did it become a referendum? Didn't we pay a dose to our creditors?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u276	Two!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u277	On 20 August 2015, Mrs Noui herself said that political events have made Greek banks more vulnerable. I shall submit this document in the Minutes, too, so that you can have it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I assume you remember what political events it refers to. In fact, at the time, the European Commission stresses that there are significant risks to financial stability in Greece resulting from the uncertainty of the Greek Government's economic and financial policies over the last six months. I'm putting this document in the Minutes too, so you can have it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So your devastating national policy has led us here today, to need a new recapitalisation of the banks. Let's get this straight. And a little self-criticism on your part is absolutely essential, because so far we are all to blame, while the government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks has never been to blame. You said you would succeed in making a crack in Europe. In fact, the Prime Minister said you were a crack in Europe. The reality is that you broke into Greece and the Greek citizens. You say that the recapitalisation will be successful, which we all wish for, because you will provide a solution for red loans. Where's the solution? You've done absolutely nothing for red loans, you're just kidding. Also, we need to make something clear, so we can get to know each other. The recapitalisation is not done with new money, but mainly with money left over from the previous one. You have never explained to us why and under what procedure the previous government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks returned the money to the European Stability Mechanism. Answer also the following questions, so that we all know: Will some banks be privatised? If so, who? Why did you ask for a few hours before the banks were recapitalised the resignation of the Chairman of the Securities Committee, Mr Botopoulos? Do you not think that his experience in the previous recapitalisations was critical in such an important process? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the policy of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks is summarised by the three-fold "taxes, taxes and other taxes". For example, you have increased VAT to 23%. You've increased taxes on hotels. You have increased the solidarity levy by 30%. You have reduced incentives for farmers and you are increasing taxes and excise duties on oil. You have increased the advance payment of income tax to everyone, especially to free professionals, to 100%. You're increasing insurance contributions. You promised to abolish the ENPIA, which, on the contrary, you extended. You impose VAT on private education. You are oriented towards increasing traffic charges to cover your wrong financial calculations. Now we hear about beef and veal. So much taxation you have made the state partner in every business. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm ending. Protests a social group and promise directly equivalent. The equivalent you find affects another social group. Then promise them equivalent. We're talking about total chaos. You'd better not talk. Speak much less at least. You do not understand that, as you speak, you are increasingly insecure both citizens and businesses and the market. But you have to understand that the Greeks' tax capacity has been completely exhausted. Your programme, unfortunately, leads nowhere but failure. Change the door while he takes you. Realize that, instead of taxing everyone, it may be time to cut off from the waste state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Christos Dimas from the New Democracy. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Dimas, because you are a young Member and a philosopher, I must tell you that the crisis we are experiencing did not begin in January 2015. The crisis we are living in has been incubated in the years of bipartisanism, the country's governance by the forces of bipartisanism, and it began to take place in 2008, 2009, with a peak, of course, in 2010. In the context of this crisis, a great vicious circle has been created, a disastrous cycle between banks and the real economy. If we don't break this vicious circle, we can't get out of the crisis, we'll keep sinking. Our own government has the great responsibility of opening the way, at least to the way out of this crisis. We have a phenomenon that many call it 'economic cannibalism' in the sense that at the beginning of the crisis banks were in a very good situation. But then came the recession, the unemployment, the unpaid loans, the governments at that time charged banks with government bonds, when the Europeans sold them, and then the PSI came in and haired these bonds, and that was where the bank bankruptcy actually came. On the banks side we have lost 120 billion deposits, and a colleague rightly reminded one of the reasons for this outflow of deposits in recent months. But it's been a long time. In red loans, we have a world record. On the other hand, banks absorb society and the state, having had to provide EUR 48 billion for various uses and with new blood donation we will exceed EUR 60 billion, and state guarantees of EUR 130 billion have also been provided. So this is a very serious and very big issue and we should not simplify it. On the contrary, we have to agree that the bill we are discussing today is a step in the direction that can lead to a comprehensive and definitive exit, as I said. The second question I would like to answer is why the recapitalisation must be carried out and completed in 1915. The ministers have analysed it, Mr Chakalotos and Mr Stathakis. We need to be aware of this. We must finish in 1915, firstly, because a directive will be put into practice in 16 which will create risks to the testimonies, and this government has, from the outset, made it its priority not to harm the test. The second reason is political. We must not give the right to new blackmail. If the question of banks remains, then there is no way that Grexit's powers will be manifested again, which are not happy with the fact that we have reached the agreement. For all these reasons, therefore, I think it is right that there is a consensus that the bill should be passed at least in the first place and that we should proceed quickly. Third question: why did this recapitalisation become necessary? I heard things against the SYRIZA government for the seven months. I would just like to say a sentence. The political forces of our country who do not see in this seven-month period that war has taken place are wrong. The government can also make mistakes, have oligopoly, etc., but there was war against the country, not only against the government. And it is important to keep this in mind, because no one can rule out - nobody wants it - that there will be no similar situations in the future. So we need to learn lessons and not just denounce each other. The new recapitalisation therefore became necessary because the previous recapitalisation did not solve the problem. Not only did it not impose or lead to a solution to the problem of red loans, but it did not even interrupt their growth. If you see the evolution of red loans since '12, '13, '14, you'll find it. Secondly, it did not touch on the functioning of the banks. We are the only country in the world in which the same structures as the red loans, which managed banks during the upward period, have been called upon to solve the problem. That is for many reasons, which are not present, is not something common internationally. I had to - and this is now - to open the way for an assessment and for a change in the structures and administrations of the banks. They told me - I was not here - that the Secretary of the Communist Party of Greece referred to me, reminding me of an old statement that I described the previous recapitalisation as scandalous. I insist on the characterization. The fourth question I would like to answer is precisely why the recapitalisation was problematic and scandalous at the time and why today has the conditions for it. There are three reasons. In the previous recapitalisation, the shares held by the State did not have the right to vote. Unprecedented world! We had a majority in the banks, we had shares, we didn't have the right to vote. We couldn't intervene. And these minor changes to our administrations, Mr Kutsuko, were made by consensus and not by exercise of a right because we did not have that right. Now, the shares, everyone we have, will have the right to vote. Also, with regard to the old administrations, not only did there have been no evaluation procedures but they were protected by law. In other words, the law provided that the management, the administration of the banks, belonged to those who had before the administration. Finally, it is what I have already said about the untreated red loans. The reasons for today's recapitalisation therefore lie in how the previous recapitalisations were made. Fifth question. Do we give it all to foreigners, or do we want to make SYRIZA's party-fed banks? It's either one or the other. In this case, it does not apply either. What happens is that this law creates a system of public control of banks, in which the state, institutions, supervisory institutions, etc., as well as private shareholders, where they exist. The State plays its role first, with its share-holding - what it will be - and second, with its institutional role. The Minister for Finance retains the final reason, even where the institutions have an influence through various institutions. We are also thinking, studying the status of all European countries, trying to see how the state works in other countries in relation to the banks. I must tell you that what we lived in Greece and saw more immediately when we took over the government there is no other place. Here, in fact, the state is nonexistent. It has neither structures nor accumulated knowledge nor institutional memory, it has no tools for intervention, nor even these possibilities it has. So, considering that in many countries the Treasury has a structure. In Germany, it is a very strong structure, the so-called ‘BAFIN’. We are, however, studying other models, so that we can also shape the respective structures here, through which the state will play its part not by intervening in the functioning of the banks, but by ensuring the proper governance of the banks, by preventing phenomena that we have had in the past and even corruption. There are several bank executives in prison, don't forget about it, and several cases under control. So no party feuds are created or granted banks arbitrarily to other interests and powers. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government is ringing.]] Mr President, I should like to raise another question. It was reported that there was no plan for red loans. It's not accurate. There is a comprehensive plan and there is a distribution of roles. Firstly, the Government forms the overall strategy and legislation. Secondly, the institutions have their own role and we will negotiate with them how to implement the strategy. Thirdly, the Bank of Greece is currently categorising the loans and will also set mandatory targets for banks as regards the regulation of loans. Fourthly, the CFSF now has its role to control if these objectives are met. From a political point of view, we have two objectives. Firstly, the social criterion cannot be complied with in respect of housing loans, which means protection of the first home. Secondly, the development criterion. Behind the loans there are people, jobs, productive units. We deny every concept of selling, selling loans. What we accept is restructuring of loans, restructuring of businesses, with a view to guaranteeing employment and production capacity, provided that new money is in place, funds will be entered, either from today's or from other shareholders and investors. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government is ringing again and again.]] Can I have your tolerance for a minute, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u281	As far as the public-private relationship that has been mentioned is concerned, this will be determined, because we should have had all the data and the opinion of the Bank of Greece's institutions, the CFS to determine it. What we are going to pursue is a balance between the one objective that is to have a strong presence of private shareholders. The second objective is also to have the presence of the public as strong as possible, so that there is a recovery of some of the sums allocated. What I would like to assure you is that even if public participation is low somewhere, there will be programme agreements with these banks so that the necessary monitoring will be carried out. The last point. Recapitalisation is necessary, but is not sufficient. We need to think in terms of a new architecture of our banking system in general, we need to discuss a new role for banks in relation to society, development, etc. This is not a matter of this law. We'll have a chance to see it elsewhere. Secondly, we must create a parallel system of banks that is not under the supervision of the European Central Bank and that does not make the system as central as it is today. In this respect, it is important to support cooperative banks and the Bank of Attica. It is important to create the Development Bank quickly, but also to encourage the creation of new banks and new financial instruments. Mr President, I have tried to show that today we are simply putting the foundations on the recapitalisation of banks for a process to tackle the crisis. This course has other conditions, some of which I mentioned. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government guarantees the timely and successful recapitalisation of banks, but above all the wider one, which we must follow to get out of the crisis. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Ioannis Drasakis. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and students and three teachers from the 1st Drama General School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u284	You will take the floor after Mr. Voridis. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor. Because you have exceeded time in the first talks, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the position of the Vice-President of the Government on war against the country as a confession of the failure of the government's choices. Why? For so far, the effort made by the other two present ministers, who have spoken, has been that the problem was not created in the seven months. That was the main line of argument, that was created before. It took the presence of Mr. Drasakis to confess: On what Mr. Drasakis says "the war against the government of SYRIZA", for political reasons you chose a conflict, which created the necessity of this bill, namely the 15 billion we are currently charging to the Greek people. Now he baptizes it 'war', 'it was against the government, it was against SYRIZA, it was against the country. These are interpretative issues. The reality of the matter, however, now is that the subject was raised. Second one. I heard about scandalous second recapitalisation. In fact, the scandal focused on three points. There has been no change of administration. Didn't I hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u286	The first was foreseeable. The scandal is, in my view, in that the shares that the State had had had no right to vote. It was declining in a sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u287	That's nice. So I have heard three points: Change of administration. It didn't happen. Right to vote. There wasn't. It's what you said now. Also, red loans were not taken care of. I will start from the third because for the third only the Vice-President was not here to follow the extensive arguments and extensive analysis of the last few years...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u288	Soon, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u289	Wait a minute. This for red loans has been fully answered. Red loans were included - we say for the most part - in all the simulations that were carried out and, above all, in the 2014 simulation, despite the deterioration that actually presented all red loans between 2010 and 2015 because of the crisis. However, these were taken into account in 2014 and therefore did not provide, despite the existence of red loans, a recapitalisation issue. I don't see anything scandalous. Of course, the issue of red loans needs to be regulated. But it is not at the moment when we are talking about the needs of the recapitalisation. There is an economic need for regulation. It's something Mr. Stathakis spoke about. Secondly, as far as voting rights are concerned, I have explained that you are implementing a 2014 law. Currently, the 2014 law wording is repeated. And as far as the issue of the change of administrations is concerned, is the Vice-President taking part in the arrangement that it brings about the change of administrations? Do you welcome the fact that, until now, the administrations, i.e. the way in which the CFSF is involved within the banks, were appointed - the CFSF Board, the members of the CFS - by decision of the Minister, and now you have granted this right to the European Central Bank, to the Commission? Have you given the support mechanism this right and you come and you give us that we have scandalous behaviour that we had this right to the Minister? You who give it to the institutions are doing your patriotic duty and extinguishing the operation of the banks? Irrespectively Slowly. Oh, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Vice President has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u292	Mr Voridis, you spoke as a lawyer and not as a Member - I fear - or a representative of the party. Firstly, with the previous recapitalisation, the Greek State had over 60% of the shares in a number of banks. He had no right to vote for the administration, neither for one member nor for either member. This is what I have seen as having the supervision of the banking system. And with Eurobank, which we have had a change, we have made it in consultation with the shareholders, consistently. In other words, as a representative of the State, as a representative of 66%, I had no right. That's the scandal. The others are problems, they are weaknesses. Today everything that the government has will be represented at the shareholders' meeting. He'll vote properly. You are talking about the three members who, if necessary after the assessment, will be subjected to the procedure you have said. Still the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u293	He didn't say that. The assessment of the CFS.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u294	In any case, the evaluation will end up somewhere for three members, not everything. The others will come out of the assembly that the public representative will vote for. But for all three members, which will be the result of the CFSF Selection Committee, the Minister will have the final reason as regards the legality of the whole procedure, the validity of the CFS, etc. I most wanted to clarify the issue with the right to vote on shares because I thought a confusion was created.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u295	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u296	Yeah, but that can't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u297	In thirty seconds, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u298	Really in thirty seconds. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u299	Firstly, as the Vice-President will know, the law does not harm. They often do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u300	Not always.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u301	They often do. You have confessed ignorance. Don't worry about it. Secondly, I am very sorry, but two things are deliberately hidden. The HFSF has participated in the Governing Councils of the banks. The Greek State has a commissioner on the boards of banks. This, I am sorry, but already by the law of Aloskoufi, the commissioner of the Greek State has the right to veto - veto - for important and major decisions on the boards of directors. You have concealed all of this, as if the Greek State had no presence. And you come now and say that the great advantage is - what? - that the Greek State will intervene and can determine the administrations of the Greek banks. And I ask you how, since all these rights will be exercised by the CFSF, which is created by the decisions of the three institutions. The evaluation committee shall be chaired by the three institutions. If that is your political success, so you understand it to enjoy it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u302	All right, Mr. Voridis. Thank you very much. Mr. Loverdos has the floor. Keep in mind that you have exceeded all the time, so two minutes I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u303	Mr Vice-President, before you speak, the debate was going smoothly and we went to a vote on the principle and in plenary, and each party would then judge on the articles what it would do. You are firing a debate and you are urging the opposition to confirm its role. You have no right and no moral weight to speak of a scandalous previous arrangement, when it does not even help you with arguments. I'd say they're helping you with the individual legal arguments, do it, because you're extreme, you're not. You come here, you have not followed the debate and you fly a phrase, which is perhaps not collected in the way you would like it to be collected. You are calling on us to confirm the opposition by doing what we need to do, then the process and the vote. I want you to tell us again either you or the Minister from where you draw that right from in relation to the draft law, not how you think. In my speech, Mr President, I asked the Members of the House to pay attention to Rule 1, which is now an article, 4a - within the structure of this article, on page 34, which determines how the committee is to decide and see in relation to the priorities if there is progress or regression, to know what we are talking about here. This paragraph, Mr Vice-President, gives a reason not to vote on Article 1, to think about it. We are thinking, on the other hand, of what we have said in our speeches too, that we are voting on something that is a foundation for the economy: the recapitalisation of banks for the sake of depositors and businesses, for the sake of the economy. But this provision does not like it, Mr Vice-President. We also told Mr Tsakaloto - now I ask him to stand by and to the amendment tabled by Mr Venizelos - to help in Article 1 and Article 4 by adding this obligation by means of a cabinet act to be taken for the individual structure of recapitalisation to come to Parliament in an official manner. "But", you say correctly, "to the FEK and get to know anyone". This is the case with legislative acts, and so is with ministerial decisions, and it is with the whole regulatory framework. But, Minister, it is not known in the House today when the recapitalisation structure is to be voted on. These were known in the previous summary. The place that had to do with investing in participations and the place in Cocos, in these convertible bonds in shares was known. We knew about this. This is where we don't know. We'll find out tomorrow. However, since this will be a form of safeguarding and your good will, beyond the formal issue, if any citizen is aware of it. To come through an addition that you will make to Article 1 and Article 4 every act of ministerial council by means of the official way in Parliament, so that the Members and the Minister will be able to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u304	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u305	Finally, I will give you an argument that I think will touch you. Since everything was well, ladies and gentlemen, and nothing emerged from your own policy in this nine-month period, why is there concern among all workers' associations in the banks for voluntary exits or for redundancies or in any case for staff reductions? Mr. Theocharis said the numbers. Why is this concern? Is there such concern because of the imminent distress on the basis of and what Mr. Michel had said? Finally, Mr President, we read today - you said yesterday - that you requested the resignation of Mr Botopoulos. If you did this a month later, when the recapitalisation was completed, I would tell you that it is your right. I don't see it that way. The institutions must complete their mandates, but I would say that in any case you have made your own assessments. Why are you doing this now? And from what we read this morning, he filed his resignation. Why do you now do so in the middle of the whole process? Is it an act of extreme urgency? I want you to see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u306	Good, Mr. Loverdo. Thank you. We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. Mr. Ioannis Giolas to come to Step for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the recapitalisation of banks is closed. The most important factor for businesses, Greek households and the Greek people is to know that the new recapitalisation will be the last, that we will manage where the opposition has failed twice in the past. We are therefore avoiding the mistakes of the past and we are aiming to put an end to the problem banks in a positive way. The aim of the State in the present recapitalisation is to attract private investments for banks and to maintain their participation in them. We want to make private investment a friendly climate. We will achieve the recapitalisation with private participation in all banks and will cover the greatest possible part without the charge of Greek taxpayers. In order to attract private individuals, then, we are strengthening the governance of banks and the CFS and so we offer a guarantee that the proper and prudent management of the banks will ensure that they are invested. We ask for their confidence, which has been betrayed in the past by those who are supposed to protect their interests and we declare that we will not disappoint them. We are not in favour of anyone, neither large nor small, investor and private. We thus break the cycle of suspicion, because everyone now knows that they will be treated fairly, meritably and in equality. At the same time, through the Financial Stability Fund, the State will maintain participations in the banks' equity funds, which we do not yet know will reach a reasonable percentage and height, based on the needs of growth in each bank. It is therefore clear that we are not giving out the shares of the Financial Stability Fund. At the same time, without even choking the attraction of investors, we are confined to a percentage of public participation, which is dominant, but not over-intensive. We retain the right to vote, as has been said many times, on common shares held by the public and thus achieve the decisive way in which the public is involved in the institutions of the banks. We are re-establishing the new FVC both at the level of administration and at the level of staff with high-level individuals, which will be chosen with guarantees of sovereignty and objectivity. Beside us, as you know, we also have the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which recognises our sincere intention and the - if anything - of good drafting to wake up society and the economy, and we believe that we will succeed. We offer a clear and definite control of the functioning of the institutions. The wages of the bank managers are under negotiation so that they do not cause the public feeling. The formula for a balanced situation in terms of the immunity of the governors is also sought, so that their activity is not absolute and uncontrolled. The objective is transparency and public accountability of banks and of the CFS which, as the Vice-President of the Government said, are institutional and legislative. For the first time, a process of periodic assessment of bank administrations is established on the basis of specific measurable and objective criteria, with the help of an independent international consultant. Finally, we are dealing with the issue of red loans, this thorn in businesses and Greek households. Our aim is for them to fall, for the first time after all these years, money on the market in the form of loans to businesses, cooperatives and cooperatives, as well as micro-enterprises and self-employed, with a view to restoring employment and incomes. Twice the mistake was made by the Opposition to ignore this parameter in the past, two recapitalisations that led to only the damage of the Greek public and Greek people. There is, of course, a plausible issue: the question by our colleagues in the Representation of our objective whether the good financing scenario of the banks will be successful. So let us remember - and I take the example of the previous two recapitalisations - the 2008 Haloskouf law, and especially 2012-2013 when the Greek State made available 39 billion in the banking sector - of which 65% for the recapitalisation of the four systemic banks - and the other 13.5 billion for the liquidation of the other small banks that were absorbed. The second, in particular, recapitalisation has been negative and incomplete for many reasons and not for those you have implied. The Greek State decided never to exercise its right to vote. Decisive! The three banks of National, Alpha and Piraeus were protected by the old administrations without being evaluated and without judging their actions. As we found them, we left them. Although red loans had already become blocking agents, the examination of their treatment has never been examined seriously or effective management measures have been taken, thus destabilising the banking system and the Greek economy more generally. In addition, other adverse internal and external effects were added: the known suffocating public funding restrictions from the banking system, a dropping point in ELA's approvals, the European Central Bank's refusal to approve an increase in the 15 billion-dollar threshold. And internally, the climate was becoming more and more painful because of the impasse of the wider strategy of your government at the time, but also because it failed to manage problematic loans. However, I think that all this is on track because the stability of the political climate is restored, prudent financial management and the promotion of the investment climate, which, together with the definitive resolution of the complex problem of red loans, which, as we have heard, has already been launched in an economically viable and socially fair way, will contribute to the recovery of the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'd like a minute more. We guarantee the data that will give rise to the safe development climate: protection of the first professional main residence, preventing further concentration of the banking industry, guaranteeing the public interest and safeguarding the value of the assets of the CFS in banks. All this is intended to be a positive development, because it prescribes the sure way for the country's economic reconstruction. We lay the foundations for the reconstruction of the banks, the consolidation of the credit institution, thus opening up the way to the Greek economy as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr. Ioannis Giolas. We are slowly moving towards the end, and there are three speakers left. Mr. Marios Salmas, from New Democracy, then Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA and last Mr. Triantafyllidis, from SYRIZA and we conclude the meeting. Mr. Salma, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we assume that everything is fine, then why do we vote for this bill? Why does this draft law come in the House so that we do not lose the measure? And because, Minister, 99% of the failures are due to people who have the bad defect to justify also the war with whom you claimed to be responsible for all the harm, I will tell you a joke. He was a doctor, an architect and a politician, and they had a controversy about what the most ancient profession is. The doctor said that by surgery on Adam's side Eve was created. The architect said that in order for this operation to take place, an architect had to do the universe with a structure from the chaos. And the politician replied: 'And the chaos who made it?' So you found a diplomatic incident and created war, Minister. Unless you even believe that the war has been declared by Europe because you are on the left. Nor can anyone understand this as a bad joke because you have shown these ten months that there is no left ideology, there is no left-wing rule. You're the best ones to do the processing of the Memorandum. Who else could have gone through these measures from the House? Tell me. Could a party of what they have been running up to now pass these measures on to Parliament? Oh, no. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis has revealed the vulnerabilities of regulation and supervision of the banking system at European and global level. In Greece, the crisis of the banks stemmed from the financial problem, from the State, as mentioned above. The capital problems in the Greek banks began mainly in 2012, through the PSI, a haircut in Greek bonds and in their portfolio. The loss in their funds was very great and resulted in zeroing or becoming negative. By 2014 the Greek State, through the Financial Stability Fund, had spent around EUR 40 billion in the banking system, of which 25 billion were directed to the four systemic banks and the rest to reorganise the banking system. By way of derogation from Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty, the Commission has no reason to consider whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Of course, this has not been confirmed in recent months, since the banks' shares have been under enormous pressure because of the economic crisis caused by the political uncertainty of the last 12 months. It would be useful to answer questions that are back in view of the new recapitalisation, making a revert to a not so distant past just last year. It is recalled that the main pillars of the 2014 recapitalisation were, firstly, facilitating the participation of private investors in order not to reinfluence the taxpayer, as was the case, since the capital increases were covered exclusively by private investors and, secondly, the successful recapitalisation of the banks, as was done, after incurring approximately 8 billion private capital to the systemic banks. The same framework, as regards the general reference rules and the expected objectives for the financial system, is described in the agreement adopted by the National Representation only in August 2015. Why did it take a second recapitalisation of the Greek banking system in 2014 and how did we get before the third one after about a year? The need for additional capital in 2014 stemmed from the greatest deterioration of the Greek economy in the years 2012 and 2013 and the resulting increase in red loans since households and businesses could not meet their obligations. In 2014 the process was successfully completed and the banks were considered by the European Central Bank, the Bank of Greece and the European Banking Authority to be sufficiently recapitalisationed. In addition, the gradual recovery of the economy has led to a significant slowdown in the rate of increase of non-performing loans. The above trend has, however, been overthrown since the end of 2014, when political uncertainty has caused turmoil in the economy, massive withdrawals of deposits and a posting of payments. In other words, Mr Tsipras' obsession to go to an early elections, the electoral rhetoric with Europe and the election expectations of seismicism have created uncertainty in the economy. In the first half of 2015, the conflict between Athens and its international creditors, the long-term negotiation, creative ambiguity, the maintenance of rhetoric, the intensity of uncertainty and the suffocation of liquidity led to the suspension of the financing of Greek banks and the imposition of control measures on capital movements. Although the measures were considered to have stopped the bank’s bleeding, they nevertheless increased the pressure on the economy and made it more difficult to repay loans. The macroeconomic environment has thus deteriorated, additional fiscal measures have been needed and the value of the banks’ shares has decreased. This anomaly, signed by the current government, comes to cover the new recapitalisation. The third recapitalisation made to banks since the country has been in economic adjustment programmes under adverse conditions. Those who invested think whether or not they should be able to invest again in a country that you don't know what may dawn, but they don't want to lose their investment. After the elections, a fundamental stability is restored, but nothing makes us more confident that it will be consolidated. The banks have ended up being tax or other liabilities and pension payments. The administrations just don't exist. Bank participation in the restructuring and restructuring of enterprises is still limited, and red loans are squeezing. Will this be the last recapitalisation? Hard to answer. Of course, however, it can prove the one that will change the banking landscape in the country. However, the direction will remain unknown as long as politics and the economy are weak. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. Nevertheless, I remain optimistic that you can succeed, since success, according to Churchill, is to move from failure to failure without losing your enthusiasm. And that's what I recognize. On the occasion of today's bill, however, the first proof of how a liberal and a left party can vote together on a legislative initiative with full respect for the rules of the free economy is given. And one should feel awkwardly exposed. But I don't belong to them. Where is that Mr Tsukalas who I remember at election debates promises that the administrations of the banks will be appointed by the State when at the same time in the summer with the third memorandum you have voted the opposite? What left are you? In other words, the international left should forbid you to use the term completely, because for the first time you have memorized what the leftists have invested for decades. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You know, a government may have many failures, but it must not be considered a failure until the moment it starts to blame someone else. That's the rule for you. It is Europe's fault, it is the former, it is corruption, it is the rich, it is the shameful debt. Where's your left ideology? Ten months...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u310	So you want another three minutes to tell us what's left? Do you take extra time to tell us this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u311	Look, after a joint vote on a bill to recapitalise the banks that you had so much...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u312	Complete your thoughts if you are kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u313	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u314	Take time to tell us something serious. Now you're telling us what the international left says and you're afflicting us like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u315	In any case, where is your left ideology? Ten months now you haven't brought a health bill, education, to understand. Where's your left approach?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Salma, you're completely out of line with our subject and from time to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u317	Nothing to do with the bill has.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u318	We're done. Three speakers and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u319	It's not like that at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u320	I understand the tension over this ideological conflict, but we really haven't understood what the left is for productive reconstruction in the country, since in a series of measures the cost of production is increasing. Whether it's agricultural production or beer production, or whether it's pharmaceutical production can you bring growth when you returned to the recession? In any case, because time is over - and I would like to end with this - I would like to say that time has passed and we all have to thank you for a great lesson that you gave the Greek people, that populism is now over in Greece. We owe you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Mario Salma. The Minister for Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, has requested the floor for a legislative improvement and immediately after that is Mr Theocharis. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u322	It is a very small legal improvement to clarify that the CFS may also participate in non-systemic banks, because it was said that it was not completely clear. That's it. I don't think it's something...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u323	Please testify and be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u324	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Theocharis Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much, Mr President. We accepted the urgency procedure, although - as I have explained in committee - it is an unprecedented procedure, that is to say the draft law on the same day as it is being discussed. We accepted what the Minister told us yesterday - with the majority of humor that characterises him, because he did not hold an umbrella when it rained humor - in the committee that it would put us in a bad way because we did not see within Article 4 the mistake of his legislative improvement between the Executive Secretariat and the General Council. I accepted - I was unable to speak and answer - what he said to me, that I did not take into account his words in my speech. And today I changed what I said to the committee, taking into account exactly what he said, namely that it was not his fault for the delay, but that they had not been able to bring the English text to him by the institutions so that he could bring it here to the vote. However, I do not think it is easy to accept a number of legislative improvements, which go on to this urgent procedure and we cannot even see them. We're trying to make it. Seeing the previous legislative improvement, on the fifth of the twenty-seventh of the number of legislative improvements it has submitted to us, I would like to ask you to tell us exactly what the Minister means, when he says that in paragraph (a) of paragraph 6 of the bill the words ‘for morally deceptive offences’ are added, ladies and gentlemen. What does the Minister mean in this case? If we look back, it is a case of a, which are criteria for not accepting members. One has been convicted of a crime involving or without the possibility of converting that sentence into money for crimes that bring moral deception. What are offences that do not cause moral deception? I'm not a lawyer. Are there any offences that bring only material deceptiveness, but no morality? What's he trying to do here? Is it a photographic device? Does the Minister in mind, who has been convicted of a crime, but do we want to pass it on to him that it is a crime that does not bring moral deception? And that's a legal improvement? Does it, then, not change the substance of the provision? Mr. Mada, please, we can't pass like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u327	But you saw we made it right. The conspiracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u328	Is the correction made? I think we should withdraw this legislative improvement or explain what the Minister means by adding it. I think that's enough, it explains the way it is. I do not think that this legislative improvement should be accepted. Please for some explanations about the feasibility of this change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I should like to reply very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u330	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u331	For what he wants to do, without Mr Theocharis' conspiracy, I think it is obvious: he wants to exclude some smaller penalties. He brought it to me to my mind, Mr. Voridis, that it's not well formulated. I accept that it's not well formulated. Just what you gave me, Mr Voridis, said the Secretary-General of the Government leaves other things. I suggest we see it again in the future. I think it is not as big a matter as Mr Theocharis puts it. That's the reality. There's already been a conversation. I have listened very seriously to what Mr Voridis said to me and we will come back to fix it. My legality, as I have explained, is not excellent and I do not understand exactly why the debate is taking place. What you said to talk about and find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u332	What is the point of not explaining. I don't know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u333	Okay, I think he's responded well. Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. I did not intend to intervene in the debate, but on the basis of moral decency I wanted to clarify that in the Criminal Code - Mr Vorides knows so - there is no chapter on moral deceptive crimes. We believe that the provision, as the Minister says, should be deleted because it will leave for any offence, which may be minor, a risk that the member of the fund might be called into question. That is what I wanted to clarify, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u335	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, I would like to ask the floor, to clarify this to thirty seconds, so that nothing remains, because that is not a provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u337	Here you go, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u338	The intention of the Minister is obvious. Because this is a very open thing and if you formulate it like that - that is how? Leaving the way the provision is now - in fact, even a very small prison sentence of fifteen days for a devotion would create a cloak for that appointment, the government's intention is to limit it somehow. She has made a wording, that is, the one you are criticising her. Indeed, this wording is unstable, in that any offence, any crime - the definition of crime, even of the least, and even of the fall, is that it is morally deceptive. There's nothing that doesn't have moral apathy. So the layout does not do its job, as it is formulated. So he wants to be somewhat limited. You could either put a felony or put a felony on it, but there's a prison sentence. I made a specific proposal, put it to the Minister. I think they're now studying her with the secretary. If they don't get there today, it'll come at some other time, so that the restriction can be made. There's nothing evil about that, I think. There are many evil things in other parts, but not in this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. Mr. Igoumenides Nikolaos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed the debate with interest both in the committee and here. There have been voices of calm and sobering, there have been remarks that are worth standing and discussing, in particular from the parties of the Democratic Union and the Union of Central and Eastern Europe. However, these remarks and these voices do not negate the overall picture and account of the Opposition, the New Democracy account, if you like, which, behind it, costs all parties to counterpopulation, and that is what I would like to stand for a while. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] What, then, does New Democracy say to us? December 2014: "Progressing the Greek economy successfully, it finally caught growth". Two. "Greek banks, financially sound, are now developing activities with a social benefit, it is time that their activities were related to private interests, it is time when their activities served their own children. And just as the Greek economy is about to pull back towards the markets, SYRIZA comes to you and closes the way for her. The "bad" SYRIZA, who is a liar, because he relied on lies to come, is based on lies to stand, the "bad" SYRIZA, who is unprepared, without a plan, who came to learn in the hump of the Greek economy" - apprentice magicians told us a little while ago, Mr. Meimarakis - "but the tuition is expensive and paid for by our people." The "bad" SYRIZA is only good on one thing. Only one thing is getting us the hat out of all the antipopulation parties. That the "bad" SYRIZA is capable of baptising the meat fish, presenting the white - black and backwards, making the "no" "yes", showing the Memorandum Policy as an antimonomous struggle. And what should our people do against this whole situation? To isolate SYRIZA politically and to return to the beautiful world, the moral, the angelic false, as was before SYRIZA. Good story to you, gentlemen of the New Democracy. In this fairy tale, first of all, I found something I agree with and I'll say it. I have not heard any financial measures in this whole account. And I agree with you absolutely, therefore, with what you have done indirectly, inadvertently, perhaps, but quite clearly: In the effort of your opposition tactical and opposition arguments, you recognise that the problem of debt and its management in Greece is first and foremost political. We fully agree on that. Indeed, in the sizes of the global economy, 300-350 billion is a small size. Perhaps a little higher than the proportional size of the small Greece. But it's a small size. We therefore agree that tackling the economic crisis is first and foremost a political issue, and so we must address it. And here I agreed with you, and our disagreement begins, why is the problem with what political orientation will we address the problem? Here is the essence of our dispute and not in the procedure invoked by your Chief a moment ago. It is not about the procedure, whether it is about urgency, urgency or someone else that we can agree, but about what we are deciding, what we are voting on, in what political direction we are moving. Are we going to pursue a social policy or a policy with social analgesia? Are we going to pursue a policy on the welfare of numbers, or are we going to pursue a policy on the welfare of society? Will we pursue a policy to protect the profits of the oligarchy or a policy to protect the productive powers of the country? So to the question, Mr Salma, 'Where is the Left?', I say to you: Here is the Left! And it's on the other side of the bank from the one you are! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why you call SYRIZA "bad, unprepared, false, unprotected". Today Mr Karaoglou told us 'coup d'états'. That is why Mr Meymarakis said a moment ago that the country is not governed. That's not the point. The country is ruling, but with a political orientation contrary to yours. That's all for one part of the fairy tale. Your fairy tale, which suddenly appears out of nowhere, the Left in Greece, in the government. But the Left didn't come by itself to the government. It has brought us into this position that our people are today, with their struggles and their votes. And it is legitimate to criticise our policy. It is legitimate to criticise the choices of the majority of our people in trying to win this popular majority. However, it is not legitimate to mock and feed through us the people who sent us here. It is not right to mock and seduce the choices of our people. And the only refreshing thing I'm going to give you is that it's a fact that you don't have the lead in lactation. Mr Theocharis and Mr Psaryrianos compete for the forefront. Your fairy tale, gentlemen of the New Democracy, but it didn't have the dragon in it. And I am referring here to your ideological brothers, the powers of Western Europe. I am referring here to all those who fought against the prospect of SYRIZA coming out to the government. The memories are fresh from the attitude of all these European partners in the referendum that we called on our people to vote 'no'. It is uninterrupted and constant their presence and their intervention, which you deliberately shut down, precisely to cover their responsibilities. 'Don't waste time' Mr Dannelis said a moment ago. However, our people know very well that we are not alone, the "bad" SYRIZA, confronted with the problems that your politics gave birth to Greece and the Greek economy. There are all these European powers, your ideological brothers, who cannot afford to compromise with the fact that the left is in Greece. They cannot be tolerated - not to say, better, they are fighting rampantly - by attempting to leave a left footprint. I will not dwell on individual issues, which have already been mentioned by other speakers, although they deserve an answer. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that, with his policy, SYRIZA is reducing all the surpluses that New Democracy has tried to encapsulate us, all of which would permanently exclude the Greek economy from the markets. It paves the way for restructuring - debt write-down, so that it becomes manageable. It defines the recapitalisation of banks to deal with red loans. We made some effort in this eight-month period. Other speakers have said and I will not dwell on the economy of time. This effort, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact that it was very small and its results were very little to change the daily lives of the Greeks, the daily life of our people, who are faced with a number of problems that the policy of the New Democracy and the previous governments gave rise to. This effort and these results are even less than what vision we have for Greek society. Anyway, the prospect we are drawing up, the perspective that the Left makes for Greece is not a road with rose petals. It's a hard road. This is the price of a hopeful prospect. Whether this prospect of hope will also be led to victory, it will be victorious, it is a matter of correlation of powers, it is a matter of constant effort by the government, it is a matter of constant struggle in society. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the government, together with the vigilant social forces, will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, in this Chamber some people are still unrepentantly trying and trying to invest in the scenario of cultivating uncertainty, catastrophe, risky, along with the scenario that we are all the same, that we are implementing the same policy. They're disconnecting. The compass of their lost strategy has been dismantled, because a left-wing government with capitalist intelligence manages to find the balance point and reject both state-owned extremism - all in the state - on the one hand, the immunity of part of private banking, which wants it all for the time at the mercy of Moloch of the free economy. Is it a left-wing government with capitalist intelligence, which chooses as its only worthy axis the service of the public interest and the interests of society, which manages to stay upright, fighting in Greece and Europe to form favourable correlations, moving with steady steps on a roadmap to where? To the hub station called ‘debt write-offs’. And it is Mario Draghi's multiplier statement today in the newspaper "IL SOLE" that the viability of the Greek debt requires his relief. And this latter must, says Draghi, be analogous in order to remove any doubt about the future viability of the debt itself. How did Draghi get to SYRIZA's place of the "Archive-Communists"? How did Mario Draghi get there to accept it? How did the IMF, like the other bodies, like our dear representatives from the German Government, finally understand what Mario Draghi says? However, I come to reply to the selective memory of the representatives of the New Democracy who have remembered the report by your best friends, who questioned you, to take the giggling of the memorandum. "We will not let Mr. Tomsen steal our glory," said the renowned Member - do not say his name, because even in Florinna he will want to come from there to take the floor on personal grounds. Well, the report of the International Monetary Fund is particularly revealing to those who told us from this ward with a great deal of courage: 'Don't ever hear of you talking about before 25 January'. We have the courage to speak before and not with what we have said, but with the report by the International Monetary Fund. It is June 10, 2014. The capital increases of the banks - the banks of the seaships, the banks that loaned EUR 160 million plus EUR 160 million in New Democracy and PASOK respectively have been completed. Really - parentheses - will you, too, return as householders the EUR 160 million plus EUR 160 million owed to the banking system, so that you too can participate in increasing the share capital in relation to the loan and unsettling of the banking system?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u343	You EUR 16 million in SYRIZA? Will you return them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u344	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. We're done. He's the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u345	So the International Monetary Fund report says so. I'm referring you there. Please, for the Minutes. It's for stress test, on pages 27-28, June 2014. What did this report say? ‘A paper tower is the banks’. I also read articles on the next day of June 11, 2014. It wasn't government, SYRIZA. 'For the 'bomb' of non-performing loans it warns the IMF, which does not exclude', Mr Vorides, 'the risk that systemic banks will also need new capital support'. They've known it since, in June of '14.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u346	What report did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u347	The IMF says so, your best friends!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u348	No, now we're all friends. We're a big company.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u349	‘New capital aid in autumn’. And this for the Minutes. I can say more. It's about autumn. It was so successful your recapitalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Triantafylides, do not give the time of such dialogue to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u351	In addition to this post, there was another reference to the IMF report: "Greek banks will enter a prolonged period of depreciation and will find it difficult to take advantage of the recovery of the economy," the IMF said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u352	What report is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u353	In June 2014, which I tabled in the Minutes. The English text said that, Mr Stakoura, immediately after the increases in the share capital of your "successful" recapitalisation have been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u354	2013 was that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u355	The previous ones, therefore, were illegitimate, they were bank-centres with an end in themselves to rescue bankers and not through the sound transparent operation of banks to support the real economy, trade, small and medium-sized enterprises, society itself, so that they could remain upright. Obviously, a successful and comprehensive recapitalisation claims and seeks the return of the depositors' trust and through it and the lifting of the capital controls. We choose consolidation and transparency in management, which is why we want recapitalisation shares to have the right to vote and thus to control co-formulation, even with the right to veto for strategic issues of banks. At the rate that we will turn preference shares into common ones, we want them to have a voting right. The dual objective: to attract both foreign investments and private sector participation. We also want to have as a state, as a public participation, so that in anticipated growth the percentage of public profits can be converted into a benefit for the people and citizens. We want control and so much public participation in recapitalisation, as it does not prevent individuals from investing their funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Three points of attention decisively. The wages and wages of selected bankers cannot have any limits, but must be in line with the tolerable sense of society's law-enforcement and not cause the public feeling of the previous period, in a penal society having 100,000 euros a month. Immunity regime. That should have a limit. We must not have a hostage regime, nor should we have a framework of impunity. One last. Continuous evaluation of persons and functions based on the achievement of objectives of the implementation plan. Tsakalotus is right when he says they don't trust us. How can we be trusted, Minister, when a Treasury party that ruled was at the same time a bank commander? I could not say his name. Could they trust us when the parties' cashiers are both bank governors and put under the carpet the loan and anguish of their own party? No, of course not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing with five points, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u356	Yes, yes, Mr. Kegeroglu gives you time from his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u357	I will not speak more than twenty-seven minutes of the previous speakers, who have written seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u358	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u359	Just, please, stop that deafening noise. Why this recapitalisation will work and why is it special and distinct? In the previous recapitalisation, the Financial Stability Fund invested forty billion euros in the banks. This amount came out of the pockets of Greek taxpayers. In this recapitalisation, the CFSF will - if it puts - up to EUR 6 billion. Therefore, the cost for the taxpayer will be much smaller. Point two. They won't need 25 billion of the recapitalisation, so in debt only the sum that the Financial Stability Fund will put in. This will result in the debt being increased less. Point 3. No false ‘sweets’ are given to private shareholders, as was the case in the previous recapitalisation, so-called ‘warrants’, the value of which has been nullified. Now, the message to private individuals is: Put funds in order to get the corresponding check. This is a 'Bill Dunn' law without being allegedly motivated at some point. Point 4. At the same time, the Government has succeeded in raising the objections of the European Supervisory Mechanism and the Competition Directorate-General for Recognition of Defending Taxes. In other words, banks may enter tax requirements for provisions and write-offs of loans until 30 July 2015. The benefit to banks is estimated at EUR 3 billion. The last one. Recapitalisation and society-critical runs alongside the framework for the management of red loans, so the main problem of the banking sector is the increasing volume of non-performing loans. These are two parallel and interdependent procedures: recapitalisation and red loans. This is the government that manages to find the balance point and fight within the system, instead of throwing stones into the windows of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u360	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-two students and students and two teachers from the 1st Drama General School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, could I have the floor? I want to place myself on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u362	We would have gone to the vote, Mr Stakoura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u363	First of all, I've read diagonals of what Mr. Triantafylides submitted. Indeed, it is very critical, because what it has submitted, which is a report of the International Monetary Fund on 16 May, says: "There has been considerable progress in the Greek economy. The country achieves a primary surplus, a primary surplus of budgets, an external balance, and a surplus. The economy returns to growth after six years and the government implements significant structural changes." That's what the first paragraph says. Secondly, the International Monetary Fund is indeed further considered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u364	Read... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u365	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u366	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u367	Just give me a minute to finish. I listened very carefully. Below, it is indeed concerned about whether the money for the previous recapitalisation is sufficient. How much was in the previous recapitalisation, as the first page says? It was 48.2. How much used? Under 40 and 11 you turned them back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u368	And now how much will be used?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u369	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u370	Please, Mr Staikoura, we must proceed with the vote and the sitting must be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u371	Let me finish a little bit, Mr President. So the 48 which the International Monetary Fund reflects were not even used. It was 39. So you gave it away for free. Secondly, who exercise supervision of the banking system? You should have known. The European Central Bank and the Bank of Greece. So what does the Bank of Greece say? When? In February 2015, he said: ‘The stress tests that took place in 2014 at the beginning and October 2014 reaffirmed the adequacy of the capital base of the systemic Greek banks’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u372	Ten times we've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u373	If that is not enough for you, then I would mention that in June 2015 the same supervisory body, who is responsible for stress tests in Greece together with the European Central Bank, said that the capital adequacy of banks up to the first quarter of 2015 remained at satisfactory levels. On the contrary, today's report by the European Central Bank on page 57 - it is important to study it before you are located - states that today's recapitalisation that we are discussing, the framework is solely due to the burden of the macroeconomic environment from 2015 onwards, on the additional budgetary measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u374	Say the English word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Stavura, I thought you'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u376	Mr Stavoura, the English word 'exclusively'. What word do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u377	We filed her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u378	What word do you translate? What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Stavura, please. The meeting's over. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u380	Mr. President, please. I'm not done. ‘In the additional fiscal measures of the Government, the limitations on the value of collateral and the expected increased and growing flow of new risky loans’. That's what page 57 says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u381	What word do you translate 'exclusively'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u382	Read it! After you've read the report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u383	You read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u384	On page 57. It's in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u385	He doesn't say so. It's your interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u386	I didn't interrupt you! Indeed, in the basic scenario, Minister, not to the extreme.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u387	Other words to be loved!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u388	Mr. Stavura, excuse me. I appreciate your sense of humor. While you have taken the floor by way of derogation, you are complaining why you are being interrupted. Please put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u389	As you can see, the Minister has obviously not yet read the report of the European Central Bank. When she studys it or sees it from the Minutes, which we submitted in good time, she can be placed. And I repeat that these apply to the basic scenario, not to the extreme. The articles: We have reservations on Article 1 for four main reasons. The first reason, which I think has been fully developed by all the executives and by all the Members of the New Democracy, is that much greater role has been given in relation to the past to the institutions in terms of selecting the governing members of the CFSF. As a result, there is a serious risk, as has been developed by other parties, that the Greek banking system is left behind. The second reason is that it includes a number of ambiguities in concepts and procedures, which have emerged during the debate until the last minute, which can cause serious interpretative and operational issues in their implementation. The third reason, which is very important, is that because of the need for this new recapitalisation, it is certainly necessary for both systemic and non-systemic banks to modify already approved restructuring plans of credit institutions, with everything that means for the presence of Greek banks abroad, but also for employment in the Greek banking system. However, because it is unavoidable to recapitalisation the banks in order to ensure the stability of the deposits, the New Democracy is placed positively on the articles as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u390	The debate is being declared at the outset...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u391	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u392	I too, Mr President, would like to speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, as we have said in all our speeches, we are voting in favour of the bill in principle. For the first article we have serious reservations about several of the paragraphs. However, the way in which this article is structured and written prevents us from voting against these individual paragraphs. But we want our most serious objection to be recorded in the Minutes, especially in the worst way in which the administration of the CFS is being conducted. Essentially, the selection by the CFS of the institutions and institutions that govern and supervise the Greek banking system is made in a way that now leads absolutely to the loss of any control by the institutions of the Hellenic Republic, as it is today. Nevertheless, we are obliged to vote in favour of this article because it includes other provisions with which we agree. We are also voting in favour of Articles 2, 3, 5 and 6. In the case of Article 4, we declare that there is also an amendment by Mr Venizelos, which was not accepted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Maniatou, there will be a vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u396	It explains our vote. The vote does not justify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u397	I am now doing so because in the vote I cannot explain, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u398	I have spoken about the articles you say you will vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u400	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr President. And we have serious objections to a number of articles in the bill. It is obvious that Article 1 takes control of the banks from the Greek Government. Mr Stathakis has already said that he is not very pleased about this article. Obviously, there's something right so Mr Stathakis isn't happy about it. We shall therefore vote on Article 1. In Article 2, we come to weary all the confessors and as Mr Dannelis has pointed out in his speech, without any provision being made for small and medium-sized enterprises, who have already tired twice. So we cannot support Article 2 and vote against it, because there is no provision - I repeat - for micrologues. As far as Article 3 is concerned, we will support it. In Article 4 there is one question of whether there will be public damage in case the banks are damaged next year. Unfortunately, it has not been clarified. So in this case we, although we have reservations, will vote on it. Finally, Article 5 which extends the measure to cooperative banks and we shall vote on that. And Article 6, which is the entry into force, will be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u403	Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u404	We have already said that we are voting in favour of the bill. What I want to note is that with regard to Article 3, on the question of the chapter of the CFSF, the provision that it refers to, "the funds of the fund come from others" does not define a maximum amount of capital, which causes us a concern that the CFS can constantly be financed with funds from any source, without ever exhausting its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u405	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u406	After Mr. Maniotis spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u407	Mr President, I just want to say one word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u408	Here, say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u409	To harmonize - and I say this very well - with the latest positions of the majority Members and to make the climate, as they have done, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if he is in a position to sign the equipment and especially the 40 million advances that have been made - we read - about the seals, which are being repaired by the LOCKHEED planes. If he is in agreement and signifies, in the sense that the Public Investment Programme and the State Budget are making this money, if he is from there and is not from another source, he will tell us why we have heard that. And we are in a debate on equivalence, don't forget. All these days, beyond recapitalisation, we are in a debate of equivalents. We ask whether it was a governmental option for both SYRIZA and the signature of this armament programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u410	Is that in the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u411	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "For the recapitalisation framework of credit institutions and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance" is finalised. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u412	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u413	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u415	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u416	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u417	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u418	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘For the recapitalisation framework of credit institutions and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u419	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u421	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u422	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u424	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u425	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u426	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u428	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u430	Proceedings of the Court of First Instance
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u432	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u433	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u434	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u435	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u436	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u437	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u438	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u439	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u440	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u441	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u443	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u444	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u445	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u446	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u448	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u449	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u450	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u451	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u452	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u453	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u454	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u455	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u456	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u457	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u458	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u460	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘For the recapitalisation framework of credit institutions and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance’ was accepted in principle and under the articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept this point to vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u461	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u462	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u464	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u465	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u467	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u468	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘For the recapitalisation framework of credit institutions and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u469	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u470	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-31-S1-commons.u471	With the consent of the House at 17.58 minutes the sitting on Monday, November 2, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
