ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We also expect a number of Members from the committee that meets. It's ending her meeting in two minutes, from what we've heard. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 20 April 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Evangelia Karakostas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the change in the location of the forthcoming trial of the Golden Dawn. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, asked the question of the disasters in the center of Athens and the Law School of Athens. 3. Under number 94/14-2015, a topical question by Congressman II of Athens, Potamios Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, concerning delays in the procedure for submitting tax declarations for the financial year 2015. 4. The Question by MP II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mrs Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the payment of the wages paid to seafarers. 5. The question under number 9214-4-2015 was raised by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the list of "natural and legal persons" of the Greek State and the collection of the debts in question. 6. The question asked by MP Elias Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the "prudential exercise of the right to cancel the competition for the Patras-Pyrgos motorway". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the necessary interventions at Heraklion Airport "Nikos Kazantzakis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Nicholas Orphanou, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the trial of the Golden Dawn on 20 April in Korydallos prisons. 3. The Question by MP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the fight against corruption concerning the installation of illegal tolls on the A11 Shadow - Chalkida motorway. 4. The question asked by MP Dodecanese of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the worrying increase in incoming immigrants. Allow me, before entering the agenda, to make two announcements to this House. I have the honour, therefore, to inform the House that in the Minutes the body of the draft legislation is being tabled, as well as the report tabled by the committee which has already been posted and distributed. [[The above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, are presented here.]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Social Security and Solidarity have submitted to Parliament a draft law entitled "Democratisation of Administration - Combating Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of Jurisdictions and other provisions". It was referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Reforming criminal provisions, abolishing press detention stores and other provisions". We shall begin with the list of Members registered. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Vageias will be given the floor and Mrs Kanellelopoulou will be followed. Here you go, Mrs. Vaguena, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a bill like the one we have been discussing these days, which expresses a left-wing government, must be bold and focused on man, but at the same time fair and proper. Prisons and imprisonment must not be revenge by all of us "informed" and "informed" against those who have outlawed, because the greatest crime is produced by society and social injustice. Some people, of course, need to be removed and reformed. In my opinion, the rigour of justice and the state must be ruthless with regard to rapists, but also with regard to the rapists of democracy, as well as to drug traffickers. I come from a neighborhood, the silk mill, which is literally plagued by drug trafficking and drug use. Every day, outside our homes we face inconceivable situations: Unscrupulous merchants, threatening us and sick creatures drawn in pleading for their dose. In my opinion, the bill treats addicted users properly, but it must also be vague to traders, as must the police. As far as prison conditions are concerned, we all know how inhuman and terrible they are. I wish this bill was a start to improve them. Also, a lot has been heard about terrorists and terrorism. In my opinion, the greatest terrorism is that of international capital and its institutions, financial houses and banks to the poor and the weak of the world. As for the other much-discussed issue of days, refugees, immigrants entering our country not only recently, but in recent years, I believe that the over-simplifications from which they come do not benefit from anything. There is a problem and it is certainly not just our country, but there is a strong case in our country too. Instead of praising it, it would be better to try and deal with it in a pragmatic and efficient manner. In my opinion, the biggest problem facing our country after the economic crisis is, because of its geographical position, migration. Unfortunately, no government has so far dealt with it as it should. It has always been a pretext for racist krone and influx of money from the European Union, which has been smashed. I think our government should raise it internationally as a major national issue. The European Union must assume its responsibilities vis-à-vis the countries of the South which accept the waves of refugees. The mighty of the earth, provoking wars, let them not load their consequences to the weak. I wonder how the Commissioner responsible for this issue, who happens to be Greek - Mr Avramopoulos - has not raised it with his urgent seriousness as a major issue in the country. I do not know exactly what action it has taken, but I want to see the results immediately and urgently. To close with the bill that is being discussed and voted on today, I believe that it is coming to put its seal on a human-centred policy, as is the policy of a left-wing government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Baguea. Before I give Mrs Kanellepoulou the floor, I would like to inform you that she asked for the floor immediately after Mrs Kanellepoulou, the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kokkalis, for his intervention in the articles on the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would also like to speak then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u5	Here you go, Mrs. Kanellepoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Nikolaos Paradulopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[To enter pages 20-21]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the most important moments of a new government are not only valued at budgetary rates which improve or not. The spirit of a government, the commitment to democratic values and humanism are not only depicted in economic indicators, arrows and mathematical suspensions. The most crucial moment for a political overthrow is not the numbers that are adapted or changed, but the priorities. So the priorities of this government, this overthrow, are people, people without voice, people living in darkness. Prisoners lived in terrible conditions, when we had the Olympic Games, when we celebrated a victory in Eurovision, or a victory in football. The prisoners, who were healthy, were rotten and those who were sick, died or killed by despair. The state was buying weapons and prisoners were deprived of medicine and doctors. The state built new prisons for a new Greece and KALIKRATIS merged or abolished social services, schools and hospitals. In this new Greece - and yet this old - young children often stigmatized for their lives, while majestic, big businessmen didn't even show up to perform their sentence. Co-workers of 15-year-old killers were left on terms - they are true - free, making the public feel about the law. Nikos Temponera's killer, a prominent member of NOTE Achaias, was released in silence, without reaction, dictator Pattacos was released because of his irresponsible health damage and up to ninety inaugurated him and made fascist reasons, and today for this bill of autonomous ones some people break their clothes, without shame for photographic arrangements and selective relations of the Left with terrorists. I do not even want to talk about the misery, counterfeiting and falsehood that has been heard in this Chamber yesterday and continued in the television in the morning. I don't want to talk about threats. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say that today is where justice and justice are standing. But democracy and human rights really take a deep breath. Of course, we're not originalizing. Already from Plato to the "Progoras" it is understood that the sentence and the penalisation are not of a vengeance, while for the intellectuals of Enlightenment the sentence is intended on the one hand to remedy the damage suffered by society and, on the other, to reinstate the offender, now convicted, in its own hands. There has already been reference to the work of the classic Chezare Bekaria. In this sense, a false dilemma is currently being introduced by some in the Chamber. Those who support the relatives of lawlessness and demolition of the state deliberately point out that these issues have long been resolved in Western thought, so that fundamental principles of law are not violated. It is precisely the same that for decades, instead of having to work seriously, instead of listening to international trends and processes, occasionally and on the occasion of a major penitentiary crisis, the system that was coming in from everywhere, by reading this Step by school reports on rights, about the security of society from the bad. You see, in here, in this room there's only good, unwitting and inadmissible! Today we all know that neither all the bad guys are in prison nor your system has become better. That is why they deserve congratulations to the group that has worked out the new arrangements. Many of them would like to be even more radical, even more promoted. That is why we support the amendments proposed for the abolition of the disgusting 'collae', which was adopted and used exclusively as a lever for the retention of youth and criminalisation of movements and struggles, as well as for the amendment to abolish the relevant unacceptable regulation on the reception of DNA. Unfortunately, we were not elected to do what we dream of as left-wing, but what we can do as democrats and progressive people, against the memorial darkness that has struck with an absolutely classic orientation, apart from all others, spaces such as justice and penitentiary. I should like to make a brief reference to the Saint Stephen prisons in the Achaias Prefecture that I represent. With the policy of zealously implemented in previous years, this penitentiary store by drug dealer prison and drug addicts is currently working as a prison for financial violations and in addition, unpaid immigrants are stacked without paper-painted guests, resulting in chambers of six living up to fourteen people. Medical care is inexpensive, as the minimum credits for prisoners' drugs and volunteer doctors - mostly in SYRIZA - cover basic medical needs. There is no stable heating and often there is no water. Penitentiary employees have to take two and three years off. They shall be transferred at their own expense. They have mourned two their own self-sufficient colleagues and work under terrible conditions. I am fully aware that what we are bringing today is not the most radical interventions. In Greece, we are trying to intervene on issues that Europe, which, incidentally, has constantly called for a card, has solved for many years. In Greece which gave birth to the law, the right to defence, the people's court, in Greece which gave birth to criminality, the proportionality of the sentence, today we are simply trying to take a cowardly step forward. The great Edwardo Galeano, who recently left this unjust world, said that the 20th century that was born proclaiming peace and justice died bathed in blood and left the world with even more injustices than he had found. The 21st century, which had also announced with its birth peace and justice, follows the footsteps of the previous century, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, by renouncing these things, the worst, claiming and hoping for the best, I am voting for this very promising bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u7	The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Kokalis. Mrs Vassiliki Leva will be followed and immediately after Mrs Leva, the special speaker of the Communist Party, Mrs Giokas, has spoken. You have the floor, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u9	At some point, when you are judging, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u10	If the Minister wants the floor, I'd be happy to give my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u11	Do you prioritise the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u12	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u13	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. I would like to inform you of some legal corrections which have also been made by legislative control, and so I am in a position to communicate them to you. It is, of course, corrections, but in some cases we have changes in numbering of articles which are abolished, without substance. In the case of disability-related arrangements in a provision providing for the opinion of the doctor at the shop, we are now referring to an opinion of the Disability Certification Centre. There is an arrangement relating to the provision of the invalidity allowance for isovitas, which has been very busy in the House throughout the whole of the work. Before I explain it to you, I would, however, like to repeat that we are dealing with a regulation which does not introduce redundancies. It introduces a different way of building the sentence adapted to particular care needs that some prisoners have. In no case shall it imply any purification, any dismissal, any turn of sentence to dismissal or dismissal. In no case shall the reproach which has been put at the disposal of the convicted court be reduced. On this occasion too, although it is self-evident, I would like to reiterate my deep respect, my own personal and the state, of course, for the victims of terrorism. All victims of crime - particularly serious crime - are respected. At the moment, however, we have a provision which concerns the perpetrators of the crimes concerned, and that is why I would like to repeat it. I continue with the presentation of the next corrections. As you know from the previous correction made on the basis of proposals by Members, crimes which justify the detention of the minors of 15 to eighteen years in the special penitentiary, the special detention of minors, were added to the rape. This addition to the relevant provision creates the need to make a similar note to the corresponding provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which deal with the same subject. I believe that the latter provisions relate only to questions of wording which do not change anything. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The legislative improvements you have already announced will be distributed. Mr. Kokalis, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor. Mr. Red, 12 minutes is your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u16	I will be much shorter, Mr President. Yesterday we placed ourselves in the first place. We agree with the bill. As we said yesterday, the draft law under consideration attempts to give prisoner the real meaning of it, which is no more than a penitentiary. The Independent Greeks away from terror, but from disability, vote this bill after yesterday's and today's legislative improvements. In particular, the term ‘electronic surveillance’ of Article 2, paragraph 10, as subsequently divided, was added to the draft law. Thus, this provision ensures the protection of the health of the detainees, but also strengthens the sense of law and the sense of legal certainty that our country needs. It is also right that what we heard five minutes ago by the Minister of State with regard to the removal of the opinion of the prison doctor, in place of the CPS. This certainly introduces a worthyness in medical opinions. Another is to consult the prison doctor and the Certified Disability Center. We agree on all the articles and amendments and on the condition of dismissal. We said it in detail yesterday at the outset. With regard to the amendments, as Mr Athanasios said yesterday, it is certainly not a peculiar case, as Mr Athanasios said yesterday, but it is a prestigious occasion. However, we saw from the deed that, as far as the concept of "covered features" was concerned, reality was distorted and so the hood was likened to the cold, helmet, and even to the handkerchief. The amendment is in the right direction, as is the DNA amendment. In view of this, Mr President, we agree with all the articles and amendments of the draft legislation in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u17	Mrs Leva Vasiliki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with something that may have been forgotten in this Chamber these days. Respect and protection of the human value are the primary obligation of the state, a law of supreme power of the state. This means that human rights are inherent in any human being. It is not privileged that a government can give someone, remove them, give them away, because it showed good or bad conduct, respectively. Human rights restrict the power that a state can exercise on a man, on a woman, on a child. This bill does not solve all the problems of the penitentiary system. Besides, we've announced it. The situation in prisons today is the result of the dismantling of the social state, in general the desperately shrinking rule of law. The war that this bill accepts is not a war of different political approaches. It is a war involving the conflict of two different worthy systems. When prisons become sacrificial monuments and breeders of sub-criminals, the one who has to lose is only society. Today's society, as we all know, has been dismantled by solidarity, has swallowed down fundamental values that truly delineate a rule of law. In this sense, therefore, the government cannot be accused of abolishing - it has been said here - the highest security prisons are being abolished together - I think Mrs Gennamas said so - and the security of society. Who really believes, ladies and gentlemen, that the safety of society is measured and evaluated by the height of walls, with blue or white cells? We have known for years that security has been built by guaranteeing labour rights through human dignity through freedom and justice. We therefore think that these values should be promoted. In these days there was a lot of talk because in the ears of some people neither the calls of Domokos' penitentiary employees nor the appeals of the doctors of the Lamia Hospital, who had no place to hospitalize Domokos' hunger strikers. So I went to Lamia Hospital to see, to help. By the way, Koufontina was being released there. It's not the first time I've visited the prisons. But no one here said how many times this human rights movement we used to have in Lamia, we as MPs have visited. And with Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou we had visited the Domos Prisons four months ago, and we were in contact with both penitentiaries and policemen, but we also saw prisoners. We didn't ask what those prisoners have done. First of all, I do not separate the victims from our own and from foreigners, nor do I. I said "the father of our own Temponera", meaning the Temponera Dionyssis, who is a companion and a member of SYRIZA. I didn't mean the murdered Professor Templera that he was ours. Who can also tell me that he considers humanism unilaterally, that is to say, I respect the rights of the person who has been punished and punished by criminal justice, but I do not respect the rights of the victims? No, I won't. I'm not the one who makes this sense, and my course can show it. I would also like to say that, instead of looking for terrorists among MPs and ministers who were taken up by the vote of societies that showed them, it would be better to look for the horror that ends in a extreme right-wing speech, in a logic that divides, in a logic that does not serve neither the security of society nor above all the safeguarding of rights. It is very short-sighted, it says, the bill, because its regulations on drug addicts and children cannot be implemented, because there are no structures. Yeah, we should wait. We should expect other children's consciences to be corrupted. We should wait for others to die. We should expect everything that I don't really want to remember, because I've also lived in the Domos Prisons, so there can be at least some arrangements. The Domokos penitentiary officials - and I have been empowered to say this - have told us: 'We will now start a hunger strike. We haven't paid our overtime since last year. We cannot respond to any of the things that announce that we must do and arrange your course." That's right. So I can only say that in all cases, whether it is a form of incarceration of the psychiatric type or an incarceration of the Domokos Therapy - I will not go - or other treatments, when I visit them, I will never consider who is in front of me and what he has done. Because, as we used to say in SYRIZA, I must defend the voice of those who are without voice. I'm a fabulous fan of that opinion. So I think that really where I am going and when I visit these structures, I will never consider who is in front of me and what he has done. Never! This is what criminal justice has done. In this sense, therefore, this draft law introduces another culture, another logic. Clearly there will be other arrangements, but this bill opens the way. After all, the right comes from the verb "sum", which means "show" and means pointing the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Leva. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, our involvement in recent years with our country's penitentiary system and with a number of bills that have come from previous governments - such bills, because they have moved to the logic of artificial decongestion and dismantling a truly tragic situation in prisons, but which is created again some time later - has now come to us: the penitentiary law of our country is not so much a deficit of legislation and an institutional deficit. Of course, there's that. I would remind you that the 1999 Penitentiary Code was a Penitentiary Code which was progressive, but it also contained many points of pioneering institutions. But the result is what everyone describes, a tragic situation in prisons. This is because there is a lack of resources, because there is a lack of structures, because there is a lack of staff, because there is such a deficit that even progressive, innovative or innovative institutions make them inactive. This is, in our view, the fundamental problem of the penitentiary system. If, therefore, this problem were to be addressed, it would allow individual people - of course, you know our understanding, namely that we do not think that crime can be dealt with in this rotten society - and they can be saved and reformed and reintegrating. However, provided there are structures, reform measures, funds, resources and they go by saying. On these issues, the bill gives no solution, because the government remains committed to budgetary discipline and adjustment, remains committed to the agreements and commitments with the partners, remains committed to the reasoning that a debt that the Greek people did not create and must therefore be cut off social needs, such as the needs of the penitentiary system. That is why the bill does not give solutions. It is a typical case of minor perpetrators, that is to say Article 9. Presidential decrees will be created at some point - undetermined! - certain structures that will welcome these people. Until then what's going to happen? Another characteristic example is that of Article 10. What is the government's care for the necessary satisfaction of healthcare in prisons? The twenty nurses! And at this time that three hundred forty people are hired to guard and another hundred sixty to guard, who are also needed. However, in the matter of medical care, the bill provides for twenty nurses. If this is an attempt to deal with the problems of the penitentiary system, then we have a completely different understanding of what constitutes an effort and a response. That is why, despite the many positive regulations, unfortunately, which have the bill, it does not avoid the eroded logic of artificial decommissioning and decongestion of prisons which will, of course, be brought back to the same results. And it doesn't make sense, if you want. It's just as inhumane that it says that because I can't have doctors, I can't have staff, I can't have proper buildings and infrastructure, then get people out and let him survive as he can. To return this world to mercy, to the jungle of crime, circuits, poverty, drugs. It is just as inhumane as the logic that stacks these people like animals in prison. They are the two sides of the same currency of managing this problem. In relation to the individual articles of the bill, we have also said so in committee, we are voting for Article 1 on the abolition of the type III detention shops, as well as Article 2 and Article 3 on those who have been sentenced to prison or imprisonment for up to 10 years and have exceeded the seventy-fifth year of their age. We are voting on the new Article 4, which concerns foreign prisoners. We are voting'residents' in Article 5 on conditional dismissal. And it's not about Xero or Xero. We have never entered this dilemma throughout the meetings and the committee and plenary. We have said before that we are dealing with these prisoners as common prisoners, common criminals, which must apply the general provisions and from this point of view to judge what these general provisions are. This provision - we do not say that it is photographic - and with the change you have made, Minister, in relation to electronic surveillance, I do not understand it, because you say'may'. Can it be from who? On the board, obviously. On what conditions, though? It is a little blurred that the'may' provision of electronic surveillance should be applied when it is not technically there yet. Technically electronic surveillance still does not exist, does not exist. We therefore vote'residents' in this article. In relation to minor prisoners, we fully agree that the age limit should be raised from thirteen to fifteen. However, we have also said to the committee that there must be certain structures which will welcome these young people. And they don't exist. You too recognize in Article 9 that the reform measures existing in Articles 122 and 123 of the Criminal Code must be implemented in a number of other structures. On substance, I recognise that something needs to be built between the reform measures currently in existence in Article 122 of the Criminal Code and detention stores. But these are referred to in the unknown future. And here there is the question: Today in the tragic situation that was the detention store in the court there was a school, but, Minister. There was a school in this lousy, inhuman detention store! Some prisoners were given the opportunity to finish their school, go to this school. There were teachers, there were teachers and there were positive examples of young children who studied at this school. Now what? Therefore, for us, it is not only about not having the miserable prisons of minors, but about having structures, measures, real reform policies for these young people with rights to end their schooling, with the possibility of leaving a morbid environment - family or other - those in such an environment. This can't be solved. Unfortunately, it can't be solved! In the old Article 3, we are voting 'at present'. We are voting on the old article 4 on drugs, of course, and we are talking about rehab that needs to be treated beneficially - and rightly so - we mean dry therapeutic programmes. This is physical and mental rehab that must be treated and treated beneficially - in this you will be controlled - and not reasonable lifelong dependence with substitute programmes that have been introduced and extended. Otherwise, you do not create an incentive for a drug addict to be able to really follow the path of decompensation. With regard to Article 6 on exceptional measures to dismantle the stores, said Mrs Kanellelopoulou of SYRIZA a moment ago - and quite rightly so - that in previous years we have been released for greedy criminals. That's quite right, that's how it happened. But that is also the case with Article 6. With Article 6, what Mrs Kanellopoulou said is being done and denounced as unacceptable, namely prisoners - and also temporary measures - who have been sentenced to life sentences with serious crimes with the creation of one-third of the sentence being able to come out. We usually in these extraordinary decongestion measures, despite the fact that we criticised this logic, voted'residents'. It is the first time that we have voted against this provision that allows such criminals to come out. And now we're talking about a rule. The emergency decommissioning measures shall be the sixth or seventh time when they are introduced. It has now become a rule in the penitentiary system, whenever unprecedented in prisons is created, in order to remove such emergency decongestion measures. In relation to the amendments, I shall mention something and I shall end, Mr President. We agree with the amendment. We had also denounced the "collagher" and we fully agree with the abolition of it, not so much on the basis of the reason that it criminalises dressing preferences. This approach is superficial. The problem is that there are aggravating situations in which there are situations including situations that photograph mobilisations, events that can result in mobilisations and demonstrations, such as the disruption of social peace. It paves the way for huge arbitrary. For example, against a protester who in a particular or under one event had a machine helmet and wore it. Nor did he intend to commit any crime. The road opens to wrapping in a glue with arbitrary unacceptable people and basically to hit the labour, popular movement and struggles. In any case, there is one question for those who support the "cooper". The ‘gull-boy’ was institutionalised in 2009. The events with so-called hoodiers, from 2009 that this law was introduced to date, have been reduced? Remind Marfin in 2010 and what happened in 2011, 2012? Every time the populist labour movement raised head and boosted radicalism, these phenomena were blossoming. And why were they blossoming? Because quite simply in such groups, other mechanisms are involved. And the notion is. That's why they were blossoming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u21	You're short, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u22	It is a huge hypocrisy of all those denounced such practices, but they have been ubiquitously exploited in recent years to slander the working people's movement. As also, it is a huge responsibility for SYRIZA that in previous years closed the eye to such groups. Closed the eye. They had been banned in part of the movement, of the games, in fact legalising their provocative action. We also agree with the DNA amendment. With some variations, of course, but we agree. There are also a number of amendments in relation to tolls tabled by us and by SYRIZA and, of course, we want to see and hear from the Minister who will accept and be placed in our dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Lappas Spyridon has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we Members of Parliament who are legal, will say that what is dominated by the bill is the penalty, namely how each of us stands politically, ideologically and scientifically against the problem of punishment. I'll tell you that the first one who thought the sentence should not be repressive, but a pedagogical character was the Progora at Plato. If you want a modern one, it was Cesare Bekaria, who was scientifically and perfectly rightfully rejected all the motives for retribution and retaliation and said that "The penalty must have only one character and one purpose: the penitentiary rather than the vigilante". It's been many years since, of course. Over the last thirty years, the rapid political and economic changes in Europe and America have affected beyond the other state structures and the penitentiary system, which has, unfortunately, been opposed to civil rights and which has been subject to stricter repressive measures in the name of maintaining public security. At the same time, however, crime has also increased. Paradoxical, of course. Because in order to deal with it at the level of a system of criminal justice and penal justice, policies were pursued aimed at removal from the social group of 'dangerous individuals and groups', with strict penalties, over-criminalisation of human behaviour, the adoption of zero tolerance, widespread use of custodial sentences, minimal recourse to alternative penalties, etc. This introduced and installed in Greece the phenomenon that Garland called "Mazian incarceration", a phenomenon and practice chosen as a response to the system of criminal justice against the growing trend in crime. Here again, this policy of oxymarine penitentiary appears, since the factors which led to this phenomenon of mass incarceration have constantly led to the growing trend in crime, the stricter penalties, the rapid increase in the number of incarcerators and the almost collapse of the penitentiary system, not only in America and Europe, but also in our country. In fact, a double paradox is that this was happening while new prisons were still being built, new tightening up and the number of prisoners increased. In the context of this strictness, moreover, the phenomenon described as ‘new criminality’, which meant a system of administration of detention stores focusing exclusively on risk management, was adopted. What, though, were the consequences of these anti-criminal and penal policies? They were the well-known and indeed confederated at European, Greek and global levels: Ragda increase in the population of the incarcerated, changing the way the detention shops operate, suicides within them, a problem of capacity and vital space for the detainees, miserable buildings, disgraceful of the rule of law conditions of the detainees, lack of the object of scientific staff, cohabitation in the same area of departments or prisons of different enclaves, such as convicts and convicts. I am telling you this, to delete the framework, which distinguishes two thought schools that are shaped around the world and in Europe and Greece: One is the one that says that the continuing criminalisation of human behaviour, the reduction of mild criminal violations of offences with a means and a large proportion of guilt and punishment, the establishment of new prisons, an increase in the number of prisoners. The other is the different concept, which we too support, that in order to deal with this phenomenon, which is not being dealt with and which is not being dealt with, as is seen from that tactic I have told you, there is a need for the different logic, the logic of this bill. I've been reading something to you since 2008. Kostas Kosmatos, following the similar legislative initiative taken by the state in 2008, wrote in "Prime Justice", issue 12. Before I read to you, I should like to tell you what the Minister said, confessing to what the aim of the Ministry of Justice is, but also what the real statements by SYRIZA and the Prime Minister and the Minister were in the programming statements that this bill does not resolve decisively at all levels our penitentiary policy. It's a step. We have submitted to you in public - there are those in the Minutes - what is our view of changing the penitentiary and the Penitentiary Code, as well as the Criminal Codes. I therefore read to you what Kostas Kosmatos wrote: "The exercise of penitentiary policy requires methodology and detailed planning, substantial social dialogue, assimilation of experiences, change of attitudes and perceptions, bold but also - take note, ladies and gentlemen of the other parties - 'political and ideological position with a common coherent focus on respect for human rights'. So, when you blame us for our ideological stigma, yes, this is our ideological stigma, the stubbornness and the obsession with our entire legislative planning to always observe this rule, human rights which you know are now internationally based on the legitimisation of many justifiable reasonings. Then Kosmatos said that with n. 3772/2008 a lot of people will be released, and that is important. However, it is also certain that overpopulation in the penitentiary systems will necessarily emerge again in the immediate future. In this direction it has been helping permanently in recent years - take note of it - the growing strictness of criminal law. Here open a parentheses. I only have a small point from Mr Venizelos's hundreds of points, because the others were not concerned with the bill, which said that the designation of a large number of misdemeanours as a felony was one of the causes of this evil - and this is right - which reflects the sense of the fear of public opinion, as being cultivated by the media and giving the same signal to the award of criminal justice. In addition, the parallel losses of justice clearance in 2004-remember the offense circuit, etc. - with the only parallel investigation of court decisions, it is mathematically leading to the consolidation of strict and insufferable criminal justice, since the principle of leniency on the part of a minimum minority of judges now posed the risk of their being regarded as a component of corruption. In other words, the diligent crisis in the field of criminal and penal law was associated with possible corruption. The endless, cruel attitude and criminal treatment were the abundance of criminal thought. The increase of over a thousand prisoners annually in recent years has been prophetic and is confirmed today. With regard to the two themes raised, on the issue of Type III detention prisons, none of the elements of a scientific character, domestic, European or international, was contributed by any parliamentary group on Type III prisons. This was only done on our part. I only mention one of you. Scientific artwork, opinion or positioning, or understanding, if you like, of the forty - criminal and criminologists when Type III prisons were established, analyses in six paragraphs something that is dogmatic and scientifically complete. It is what he answers why Type III prisons did not reflect the degree of crime, but also the needs of the penitentiary. I'm skipping it. So Type III prisons could no longer exist and are rightly abolished. There was no political force other than the New Democracy - I don't know about the Golden Dawn - in favour of the "cock". It was a law that was unnecessary. Do you know why it was unnecessary? Because in Article 79 of the Criminal Code, the judge has the ability to assess the criminal conduct as a whole and if he says that the concealment of the traits led to the defendant wanting, the suspect to hide the offence, being assessed as a prejudicial case. Why was there a need for and need to create the "cooper"? That's why all the scientific bodies, all the lawyers and all the law schools in the country were criticised. I'm finishing with DNA. I have here the announcements from all the parties on 'terrorist', 'cousin'. Minister, you were right to alter the DNA, and now this new legal wording of the article in question, of course, obliges it to be carried out as a DNA expert, namely genetic material, but under four guarantee functions in favour of the defendant. Firstly, the offence he is accused of demanding at least one year's sentence where he was for three months. Secondly, order it to be ordered by a judicial prosecutor or an interrogator in the context of the expert's opinion. Thirdly, to prove in practice respect for the dignity of the accused. We are talking about the supreme constitutional good of the value of man enshrined in Article 2(1) of the Constitution. Fourthly, the defendant's power to appoint a technical consultant. So all the guarantees are given to the defendant, to the citizen in general, that there is nothing to violate his individual rights. I shall conclude, Mr President. Yesterday all the opinions were heard here. On the one hand, the extreme anti-legislative reason against the bill without the individual provisions being analysed. Generally and abstractly, everything is because SYRIZA deals with and trades with the hoodmen and anti-powermen. On the other hand, our view in favour of the division, which, as lawyers in the audiences, says is that he is a sister of justice supposedly and when we come to the House he is being expelled from the room and it must be the first because that is justice. Do not forget that the tightening up of penalties has effectively devastated Lucian's eternal, time-consuming crackdown on criminal practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u25	To abolish justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u26	Oh, no. It's good to not abolish, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Justice is not to be abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Lappa, you're finishing up. We've already exceeded ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u28	In the field of individual rights, therefore, we are implementing the aristotle logic "not you are the states of civilisation". The other extreme reason for denying everything is what Roman Platos "homo homni lupus" said. The man for the wolf. If you want such a solution, you insist on your logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u29	Mrs. Jufi Merope has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, when you are able to give me the floor to clarify the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u31	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed draft law by the Ministry of Justice introduces urgent measures relating to Greek, criminal and penal law, signalling the absolutely necessary attempt to rationalise problematic provisions and regulations, as well as its necessary alignment with international law. These legislation is an essential step and they are trying to prevent the systematic squeezing of human rights supported by the previous Memorandum. The abolition of Type III prisons was one, as was rightly said yesterday, by SYRIZA's election commitments as a fully contrary to the principles of the rule of law that raises constitutional issues about the principles of equality and proportionality. Type III prisons remove fundamental rights of the detainees to strengthen the anachronistic and punishing institution of the discipline with the aim of aesthetic deprivation and forced indifference of the detainees and then crush their character, but without making the detention shops safer. On the contrary, they exacerbate substantially problems of the penitentiary system while sometimes relying on arbitrary and often symbolic crises over the risk of the prisoner. As regards the arrangements for minors, the present spirit of the draft law has as a key element as far as possible the minimisation of the incarceration of minors while at the same time the need to promote alternative detention measures and to strengthen reformist and educational measures. The existing framework has proved to be inadequate and problematic, it runs counter to the provisions of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the evidence suggests that, unfortunately, minor prisons enhance crime and lead minor prisoners to further and often to irreversible social marginalisation. With regard to measures concerning patients, the disabled and the elderly under this draft law, there is an attempt to deal with more stringent conditions of all these categories by examining their dismissal through a strict framework of conditions. Taking into account the submissiveness of the penitentiary and scientific resources carried out by the previous governments, together with the inability to cover detainees at the level of medical care, the dismissal of the detainees of these categories is favoured - and rightly so - as the detention of the detainees is exacerbating their health further and leading to death many times, since they are no longer a danger to society, precisely because of their situation. Let me remind you here that similar arrangements exist in all European states. On the subject of overpopulation, this bill also lays down a number of more favourable conditions for the conditional dismissal of detainees, with the aim of dismantling prisons. Most penitentiaries are tested, as others have said, by the explosive problem of overpopulation which makes - and these have been described very dramatically - the living conditions of detainees in superstitious and inhumane settings. Our country has been systematically condemned - thirteen sentences in the last five years - by the European Court of Human Rights concerning this issue and is called upon to pay fines, which burden the budget of about EUR 1.5 million, while the seriousness of the problem has also emerged from the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture. I am personally aware of the issue, since in Yannina, I am unfortunately coming from the prisons of Stavra in which detention conditions are a chronic wound and have taken place on the occasion of the condemnation of our country four times, precisely because of the overconcentration, which leads to degrading and inhumane treatment of the detainees. I would also like to refer to Rule 312, which is the criminalisation of the damage caused by constant cruelty which has unfortunately been prevalent with the English term 'Bullying', which has also become even more popular, because of the recent and dramatic case of the unfortunate Vangelis Giakoumakis in Iannina. Bullying is a form of abuse, intimidation or coercion, verbal, social, physical and electronic, and often includes repeated acts aimed at imposing a person or group on another person or group, while, unfortunately, it often reproduces and incorporates racist perceptions and stereotypes. It takes place in various environments, in school, army, workplace, family, neighborhood and, of course, in prisons and from studies of reliable and scientific importance, it seems that about 30% of students have suffered some kind of abuse in the school environment. Of course, this draft law is criminalised against Bullying who are under any age, while it provides for heavier penalties in cases of minors or defenceless victims. It is, however, only one pillar to tackle the problem, the other, the main pillar, requires us to understand the problem in a scientific way, in all forms and dimensions, and, of course, to find ways of preventing and preventing early intervention, since, unfortunately, the human beings have experienced victims. It is therefore necessary to set up strategies and practices for those directly and indirectly involved who are not here and which should be the subject of another discussion and preparation. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this is a bill of breath and humanism which is perhaps due to end the situation of barbarism, expressed in its most ferocious form, to the people who live on the sidelines of society. Of course, within a constant horror of terror, which is organized daily by the systemic media, but which, unfortunately, is also expressed here in the House with extreme, deceptive characterisations which are carried out with severe psychological intensity and provocativeness, unfortunately, the essence of this important legislative intervention has been very blurred. So it takes a lot of systematic effort to understand and translate its importance into society, because unfortunately and central powers away from the principles of enlightenment, which they want to take up, adopt the conservative agenda and vote against the bill, even paradoxically in some places. We will insist on the point that I think it may be better expressed in the words of minor prisoners of passports who poetically say: "From all colors they left us gray, but a red haunts our dreams. They say that God defected himself, but we believe in an exit of danger." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u33	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Kelles, he has already asked for an intervention by Mr Paradise, the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a clarification and to explain to you the positions of the Ministry of Justice concerning the amendments tabled by SYRIZA. With regard to clarification, it is particularly concerned with child detention and child detention schools. I have heard the idea that by limiting cases of child incarceration, the school will be left unused. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u35	That's not what I said, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u36	We continue to have youth detention stores. In other words, there are still some in Corinth, as well as the schools, which of course have a population of eighteen - twenty - five. There will also be schools for someone aged 15 to eighteen, if there are conditions for booking at this age. In addition, shops will operate on the basis of the population of eighteen - twenty-five years. This is already happening. Beyond this clarification, I would like to tell you that the amendments tabled by SYRIZA Members have not yet been formally adopted. However, because I have seen them, if you judge them useful, I am in a position and for the sake of the debate to explain to you now what are my personal views. As regards the amendment on the abolition of n. 3772/2009, which criminalises the use of hood, my position is that the relevant arrangement should be abolished for cases where the use of the hood, i.e. the cover of persons, is foreseen as a burden to the penalty. I believe, however, that this must be done with an exception, that is to say, the use of the hood should be maintained in the event that the crime committed is a crime of robbery. This is the only one of the anticipated cases where we are dealing with a felony, namely a crime of greater decency, threatened by a heavier penalty, and I have the impression that maintaining as a degrading circumstance within the threatened sentences of covering the person or altering the characteristics of the person in the crime of robbery may also have a preventive force. It is also characteristic of the decency that Greek society attaches to the use of the hood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u37	Minister, can you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u38	We accept the amendment, with the amendment which I have spoken about. But I do not know, Mr President, whether it is legally the amendment that is accepted, or whether it is my own.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u39	Obviously, you'll give clarification later. Now you're confusing us a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, do I have more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u41	You have time. The three-minute comes symbolically. If you want to continue your intervention, you have the floor. We don't deprive you of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. I'll see how the text is formulated. In essence, however, this is our position, namely that the hood is maintained as a aggravating circumstance only in the crime of robbery. The second amendment tabled relates to the reception of DNA. The position that such reception should not be mandatory does not appear to be in accordance with the Ministry. It must be compulsory to take. However, some other regulations, details and specialties are very useful, such as taking them in such a way as to respect human dignity - which is what the Constitution provides for - to provide for the possibility of a technical counsellor, not only in the second reception, but also in the first one and to be taken by means of an order of the public prosecutor or investigating body. With these additions or differences, the amendment is accepted. The other amendments tabled by SYRIZA Members as regards the Ministry of Justice are not mature. In any case, the Ministry of Justice is not ready to study and evaluate them at this time. It considers them particularly interesting and will examine them in due course for legislative promotion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. Before Mr Kelles moves to the forefront, I would like to say that Mrs Stavoulis Aphrodite will be followed by the intervention of the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Mitsotakis. Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have after three months the first bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the reform of criminal law, the abolition of Type III detention stores and other provisions. And all of this in a climate of intense concern about the country's strong fiscal situation, but also intense turmoil by taking over public spaces, incidents with anti-powered ones that intensify the sense of insecurity and non-return of justice to the people. For the bill and for the individual articles, my other colleagues have been mentioned in detail. I won't say any particular things. I want to say good to Mr. Voutsi, who yesterday confessed that they were perfectly consistent and honest with what they have promised to vote on at all levels. That's right, Mr. Voutsi, as you said. You had promised them in advance and implemented them in full. Your colleagues were witnesses to the defense of terrorists in the courts. The bill also strongly dominates the attempt to meet demands that have at times been raised by the Left Anti-Association space. But now you've gone one step further. With Article 2 that changes Article 110 of the Criminal Code, you effectively relieve the terrorist Xero of the creation of the remainder of his sentence that is five years old. But to justify the terrorist and his disability, Minister of Justice, and to charge the responsibility of his disability to the National Health System and to Greek doctors and this through the mouth of the Minister of Justice, I think, Minister, has exceeded the ground. He's beyond all reasonable. Mr. Xeros was very healthy. How did he get hurt? In his attempt to put on a grenade that went where? To kill innocent people. I could be you and any of us. This grenade broke into his hands and was severely injured and was disabled - yes - 98%. Is that the Greek state's fault? Is it the Greek doctors?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u45	62%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u47	Yes, but of course you have made a statement - you have repacked it even late, and that of course is to your credit - which I think has no basis. Instead of thanking the Greek health system that saved his life, we should also ask him for the change. And it makes me a lot of impression that the Minister for Health didn't make a big deal of sense on this subject, not a word. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing does not stand up to reason, nor does it serve the legitimate feeling. With the provisions you are trying to pass, any prisoner has served ten years since his sentence and has from 80% to 50% disability regardless of the crime he has committed or the sentence he has been sentenced, he goes home. Instead of focusing on improving detention conditions and improving the services provided to prison hospitals so that prisoners can live decently - there of course we would be positive - we decide to go out, go out. I will say that we will contribute and vote in favour of what is in the right direction. In this bill, however, the majority of the articles will be negative. Because it is a disgraceful compromise with extra-parliamentary powers, which are part of your electoral clientele. They helped you to come to power, and now you have to repay it. Decide to rule at last. The time margins do not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Mrs Stuboulis Aphrodite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill does not reform the penitentiary system. It does not make it any more effective or more penitentiary, let me go into neo-liberalism. He's just trying to make it a little more human, a little less destructive for those involved in his gears. And it is trying to do so in accordance with SYRIZA's commitments, which were not only election, but stem from our struggles and our practice in and out of Parliament for many years, struggles and practices that have claimed rights without being influenced by the characteristics of the individual benefiting from the claim of rights. It is consistent with our commitments, therefore, which, in order to be practically implemented, do not require some action. You know, we often come up against the tactics - mainly of the Officerial Response - whatever happens, someone who is in the process to make a letter to ministers telling them what to do, what each ministry needs to do in a situation, the Ministry does, but he or she who wrote the letter from there and then thinks that everything has been done following its actions. It's not true. From acquired speed, the wing, and here it tries to find after actions of who does what the Ministry of Justice does. But what does he do exactly? It abolishes the prisons so-called the highest security, i.e. this Guantánamo salt grape. It abolishes the imprisonment of minors 15 to eighteen years old, unless they are serious offences. It's forbidden to hold another eighteen months people - people are even foreign, isn't it? - who have served their sentence for years without the Greek state being able to learn neither who they are nor who must send them, nor whether that is possible. It allows them to perform their sentence at home over-aged, severely ill and severely disabled. He cares for them to be healed, as far as possible, and not to exterminate drug addicts. It also abolishes the dull "could-law" and adds some guarantees to the reception and use of DNA of suspects by the prosecution authorities. All of this is baptized by the Civic Anti-Civilization "cooperative" or "payout of letters to terrorists and hoodlers". It is, though, isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative framework that SYRIZA has inherited and changed has made it possible: three, fourteen-year-olds or nineteen-year-olds to be arrested close to a broken public building during a demonstration - you know, with the arrests in the pile - to have on the bouncery masks, which are of moderate effectiveness for the chemicals they are bombarded, to be persecuted with a combination of hoodier and terrorist because they are an organization, since they are over two and a half. Does it surprise you that there are three-digit criminal organisations in Greece and in Italy for two-digit? And they will be found in Domokos's Type III prison, even - because this is what your law provides for - that is to say, even criminals will be locked in this vagina - where in any unrest no one will know exactly what happened because of the restrictions on the communication of the prisoners for security reasons, of course, they will be shot - since this is possible without the rules in force and without even warning - one being killed, one being killed, one being acquitted and the other being acquitted - neither the deceased will turn back nor the disabled will be well - or the survivors will be sentenced and the disabled cannot be released even after ten years. This grim perspective that potentially threatens every resident in the country with the legislation in force, is being lifted today by the Ministry of Justice making it possible to award true justice. But is it justice a year and a half in prison for a human life? The question was asked yesterday. However, some cannot in the name of a personal drama, completely respected, try to introduce photographic exceptions into a humanitarian measure. No, it's not enough a year and a half, I'd answer, especially if the shooter then comes back to work and gets a promotion, like, for example, the killer of Michael Caltezas. Not to ask how punished the killers of Stamatina Kanellopoulou and James Kume were. It does not address amnesty, opposition, and it will do well to remember that. As to the argument that proper care conditions should be ensured for severely suffering in Greek prisons, in the foreseeable future, it is a bad joke, especially when it is said by those who have demolished the conditions of hospitalisation for those outside the prisons. And because Greece also has a disproportionate number of baroinists and a huge number of isoviates, most of which did not do anything heavier than kill a fifteen-year-old child by shooting the back, justice renders the prison decongestion measures, which were attempted to underestimate by the term 'horizontal'. These measures do not concern terrorists and hoodlers, in the context of counter-population, always, but poorly-dead, victims of the same policy, who, apart from social questioning, also criminalised poverty. However, it also criminalised the protest against poverty, such as in the case of rural trade unionists, where the blockade of traffic was indicted in order to be loaded cumulatively with several years of penalty, a phenomenon in which - and we have made a request to the Justice Ministry - we must give a solution, a fair solution. The fact that workers' protests are only moved by the Civic Opposition in the form of organised family excursion - with what costs, really? - in which the majority of the participants and participants are melted in the square and surrounding tables, wearing a phosphorus vest - not the originals, of course, used in the factories, but, made of fine polyesters such as Halloween clothes - that simply shows how much this relationship is with work and with protest. Let it prove, at least, that it has little to do with justice and with penitentiary, by voting in favour of a bill that will simply allow offenders - nobody says that they are not offenders - to live with less hatred and die with less pain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u51	"Let offenders live with less hatred and die with less pain." These are the phrases you have used, my colleague. And I wonder - and I mentioned yesterday in my speech - whether the notion of prisonership, in your own perception, is inextricably linked to repentance, to recognition of error, to sincere self-criticism, to the conversation with the conscience of someone who realizes that at some stage in his life he may have committed a crime, appalling crime, a murder. For me, Mr Minister, this is the most important condition of prison. If there is no such condition, then this whole debate we are having is a very long hypocrisy. I am afraid that for those who will benefit from this very photographic provision brought by the government - and I am referring to the case of Savvas Xiros - this self-criticism and this remorse has never been. So, what penitentiary are we talking about? You will be invited, ladies and gentlemen, through the roll-call procedure, to place yourself on Article 2. And if it is voted in favour - and this is the power of the sovereign parliament - you will also have contributed, in your way, to the release of a man who has not shown any remorse, no recognition of the pain he caused and who has not convinced anyone - and certainly could not convince any judiciary, Minister - that he is not really dangerous and submissive to repeat the same actions. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I spoke from this House about the tolerance that part of the Left displays in form of revolutionary violence, which to some extent considers them to be a natural extension of the political struggle by other means. I spoke about the strong need - I at least feel it, I may also be wrong, but eventually society will judge - which the government feels should discuss with the anti-powered area and legislate on the first legislative initiative by satisfying basic demands. I also spoke about this paradox - at least in my own worthy system - levelling, equation, I would say better, between the victims and the victims. We have heard many things in this Chamber about the need for greater and more humanism, an understanding of the particularities of people who have committed crime. I told you my opinion and what is the basic condition for me. However, we have not heard much about the victims, which yesterday and today are following this debate. On the contrary, one of the most official lips in this Chamber was confirmed on the substance of this appalling, in my mind, equation. What did Mrs Constantopoulos, the President of Parliament, told us yesterday? He told us about the fact that the relatives of the victims of terrorism, who - and I stress, Minister - were legally present in this area with permits granted to them, protested about the same way as the one chosen by various hailers, anti-powered when they invaded this very Chamber. I wonder exactly what message we are sending when we invoke this claim. It is their own protest, not their own protest. The ultimate equation! The victim and the perpetrator just in the same fate! One form of violence, terrorism, another form of violence, state violence. We are therefore equating everything to the altar of an argument that allows us to come out of our own personal insecurity and weaknesses. I think that of all that has been heard in this Chamber - and obviously a lot has been heard - this has personally bothered me most. And it didn't bother me as a relative victim of terrorism. I was disturbed because through this argument we cannot see the scale of the threat that terrorism represents for our democracy. When terrorism is balanced with other forms of political intervention - we have heard it many times in this Chamber, violence is also the memorial tombs, it is all violence - we are equating the legislative initiative of a elected government with the forty-five and the kalashnikovs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most dangerous way to go to lawlessness and to question the basic values of urban democracy, on which this country has been built for the last 40 years. And I do not want to believe that anyone in this Chamber - how much rather the ministers and especially the Prime Minister with the legislative initiative of expedients, Mr Paradulou - may question these basic values. Because yes, in the same constitution we have all sworn to faith. And when we say that 'we are every word of the Constitution', that we should remember when we legislate in this Chamber. Some comments on these articles, which I did not have the opportunity to make yesterday. Type III prisons: I wonder, are type III prisons special, that is to say, increased security prisons? Are there not in most parts of the world and in countries which have a particular - let us say so - sensitivity, an even greater sensitivity to human rights, such as the Scandinavian countries? Aren't there such prisons? Are they in Finland, Norway? I wonder. As far as I know, there are prisons. In any case, these Type III prisons, which were established, to what exactly do they differ from the rest of the prisons? Have we explained that? Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, know that with so much talk you have managed against Type III prisons? What's their distinction? That they have perimeter guards? Is that bothering us? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Wait a minute. Or does it bother us that the prisoners who are placed in these prisons are not allowed? And who ends in Type III Prison, Minister? Who? Temporary criminals, marked criminals, terrorists. Should they be licensed? Possibly, under conditions, yes. May I remind you where the case of Christoulos Xeros ended? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Can I remind you? So who is really disturbed by Type III prisons? And let me say one more thing. The rapporteur for the Potamiou said so and I found it extremely interesting as an observation and I would like to repeat it. Who runs the prisons today, which we have? Who runs the Crowley? The marked criminals. And that is ultimately at the expense of the rest of the prisoners. So if you are satisfied with the level of operation of Korydallos - I mention a typical prison - as it works today, by this total lawlessness, which ultimately prevails from that state, which, in a state, marked criminals, who would end up in Type III prisons, had, of course, imposed, if - I say again - you are satisfied with this approach, you can abolish them. For Article 2, I will not come back. I talked about Xero's case. But I made you, Minister, yesterday a proposal and I did not get an answer. I will repeat it today. If you want to prove that this amendment is not photographic, you must simply do the right thing and provide for a different timetable, after which the beneficial provisions of the law will apply, for those who have been sentenced to life more than once. Why don't you do it? What's the legal basis you don't do? If you don't, you'll be responsible personally for the release of Savva Xirus. You will be accountable for yourself, because there is no legal argument to stand up to the criticism that someone who has been sentenced to life with someone who has been sentenced to life five times in life must have a treatment. Go and tell justice that then. Remove multiple sentences. The five murders and a murder are dealt with in the same way. If you do not do that, Minister, then you will always be "open" and will be accompanied by the accusation that a distinguished legal officer, when he sat in the cabinet and had the legislative power that the law gives him, has photographically legislated to release a marked murderer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also use my dentistry, Mr President. I want to say two words about Article 6, about the emergency measures for decongestion. No one disagrees, Minister, that the situation in prison is tragic today. No one disagrees that this is really the case. But what's the solution? Horizontal decongestion? Did we have any problems with the infrastructure? Did you have any concern about what the representative of penitentiary officials said, that today there are infrastructures that are ready to be exploited and which for various reasons are not exploited? What is the number of prisoners condemned in Greece? Is it higher than the European average or not? If he is older, then what should concern us is, not how we get the prisoners out of prison, but why justice sends more people to prison than he should, if he is the way you said, Mr President, that we have more isobetes than we have in the rest of Europe. I have no reason to question it. Then the concern of the Minister and of this Chamber should not be how we are going to get the isobetes out of it, but how we will ensure that the penalty imposed is truly in line with the offence. And I cannot accept, Minister, that rapists, terrorists and accused of serious and disobedient crimes can be treated in the same horizontal way as someone who can ultimately be found with a life sentence for other reasons. I am disturbed by this horizontal levelling, and this is our main criticism in Article 6. I will close, Mr President, with just one word on the amendments. I understand that you will not accept the amendments tabled, with the exception of the amendment on the hollowman - I am using your phrase - but with one interesting remark, which you consider that in the case of the robbery the hood, yes, it is a prestigious circumstance and can prevent the law from operating, so that no one can use a hood in a robbery. If we're interested in the deterrent dimension, why don't you care about molotovs? Why? Because crime is less serious? I don't understand that. I remind you, the hood isn't criminalized. If my son, who wears his hood, walks in the street, nobody will go arrest him, but if you throw a molotov and you wear a hood, yes, that will act refreshingly. So if you accept that and you said that it does deterrently in the robbery, do you not care to act dissuasively on molotov as well? Do we have such comfort over attitudes that have more or less been consolidated in Greece as if they were about normal? If, therefore, the argument for a deterrent applies to serious crime, it also applies to a crime which is less serious. Therefore, I cannot in any way agree with your arguments, and we will therefore be against the amendment that you will table. I should like to close, Mr President, with a general remark. It is good, Mr Ministers, that you should at last consider, in addition to these legislation you are bringing, the crucial issue of the national negotiation of the conclusion of the agreement, which you yourself signed and which you seem to be unable to implement. I am amazed, Minister, that I read - now, getting up shortly before the Step - that Mr Varoufakis in another obsession made a new statement this time in which he made it clear that Greece will not repay the next instalments to the International Monetary Fund if the creditors remain stable in the tough line they hold today towards Athens. Who, Mr. Varoufakis, showed up again today? Who? Just scales? So one day we call one another the other? Mrs. Lagard called to Washington and said we would pay back the obligations, and today you tell us that we will not pay them back? Is this a picture of a serious government? I ask, is this a picture of a serious government? Can you finally end up with a strategy, come here to announce it, to close this agreement, not to play with the nerves of ordinary Greek citizens with the real economy that breaks down in the midst of this absolute uncertainty? You signed an agreement on 20 February and you cannot implement it. You are going back and forth, between the prevalence of logic and the need to satisfy a parliamentary group, which obviously does not want the agreement you will bring. Mr Minister, then, finish with this bill as you finish - after all - the story will judge who is right and who is wrong - and finally implement the agreement which you yourself signed and tell the Finance Minister that this picture of the country's official negotiator every day also says something different, certainly does not help the national negotiation. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Mitsotakis, to you a clarification and a clear-cut approach to the policies you said at the end. As far as the clarification to be given to this Chamber is concerned, you know that it is not possible for the passion of confrontation to be 'burned' and for the public to be impressed about reforms that have been very important, really shocking, that have changed the last two decades of life within the penitentiary system. I am referring to the issue of licences. It is a system which, according to a common confession, has greatly facilitated everyone, even the penitentiaries and the state. After so many years, the annually by the Minister of Justice, which is being done on this measure, shows that we are in Europe the country in which the least problematic situations have become - that is, not backwards - the fewer escapes and violations. We all know that. When we do not say it, however, and let people who do not know what is happening to them, such as channels and elsewhere, to turn against any measure, which has really facilitated excellently - it is also a part which facilitates socialisation, namely keeping in touch with society, regardless of what it has done, etc. - that's not right. I would therefore like to make it clear. I'm sure you agree on the statistical element. From there on, you have said about the conditions you have set. Let me tell you that this is a very important issue. I would also like to ask rhetoric, because I listened very late last night to my colleague, Mr Manios, who is extremely experienced, who spoke as a doctor and as a man who has dealt with these issues. He made a thrilling speech. He asked to your side - there were no then, if I am not mistaken, many colleagues were two, perhaps two, at 1.30 o'clock at night. And I was watching outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u55	I was there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u56	Yes, Mr. Fortsakis, you were present. I'm not making any insinuation. I'm telling you it was 1.30 o'clock at night. So he asked: "Where were you as a wing, as rulers, as a co-government party in all previous years when seven licenses were granted to Christodoulou Xiros?" In the two and a half months of SYRIZA, is this whole attack bar being carried out on the issue of licences, in order to create powerful reflexes, which, unfortunately, with what Xeros did - and others have done - have been given ground and have been banned in law and wrong? They are also burnt "dry and green" and get few permits. They were cut off, cut off a lot. Let's go see the real problems. Let the Justice Ministers present them to us. I have no objections to what government will be, because they know the issues. We must put ourselves on them and not create this veil, which leads to a conservative folding of the Greek society. I asked you yesterday, and I specifically addressed to Mr Venizelos and to your wing. I hope that your reply was not what Mr Georgiades said yesterday at 8 p.m. until 8 p.m. and 2 p.m. So I asked: if you have anything to suggest and tell us about the negotiation, which is continuing and about which the Prime Minister yesterday in a statement to the 'REUTERS' set out the four points in which it is not possible for us to retreat, retreat openly. And if you have something to suggest to us on these four issues, on both of them we should be more flexible, we should accept them, we should help quickly to get to a consensus of opinion, instead of going around - and not to the point - that we are to blame for the fact that we are the gentlemen who have an ideological and political thought entirely related to your own party and who are blackmailing the country openly. If it is not their fault, if it is our fault, you should suggest that we discuss national lines of negotiation in this House openly. You don't. You've been provoked several times. And Mr. Venizelos has been repeatedly provoked, saying about plan b, c, etc. So we on these four red lines say that we are not going back, it is not our concern. We may be wrong, but let's tell us from here. Not to say it was the Greek Government's fault for the deadlocks in the negotiation. This, too, is a clarification, Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u57	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u58	Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u59	As a parliamentary representative, I am using my dentistry for two minutes to answer Mr Voutsi. After all, he asked me a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u60	That wasn't personal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u61	First of all, Mr Voutsi, I welcome the fact that, for the first time, at least as far as I remember these last two and a half months of the government has been sending an open invitation to the opposition to come and discuss and draw up the red lines together. I would remind you that, from this step forward, during the discussions on the programming declarations, we said to you in the first place: 'Get a better deal and we will support it'. I wonder: When did you do this? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u62	What's your problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u63	You have therefore signed here the joint communiqué of 20 February, which, among other formal changes in the baptism of the troika in institutions, the preservation of its existing rationale, says something else: that you will not take unilateral action and that unilateral actions will undermine the very essence of this agreement, which you have signed. So I wonder: Have you or have you not taken unilateral action since you signed - you, not us - this agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u64	Where are you referring? Tell us specifically!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u65	I am not talking about this bill. Wait! [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're also in charge, Minister. So I ask you: is the bill on the democratisation of public administration or is it not a unilateral action?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u66	In relation to your commitments, ours is another policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u67	I ask you, is it, or is it not, a one-sided action?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u68	Minister, let him finish and then you take the floor if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u69	What are you talking about? Tell us, let's hear!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u70	Please do not interfere, honourable Members. Mr. Mitsotakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u71	First of all, it is a unilateral action against common sense. But it's a unilateral energy, because who will judge, on the basis of what you signed, Mr. Voutsi...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u72	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u73	All of you, in general! Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u74	You're mad!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u75	Mr Mitsotakis, do not address Members. Please address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u76	You signed an agreement that you will not take unilateral action. Who will judge whether an action is unilateral will be done in consultation with the institutions? That is the logic of the text you signed. I am therefore clear, Mr Voutsi: you are authorised to sign a better agreement. You are not authorized to download the European flag from this Chamber! That's where you'll find us across the street. What we are pointing out is that, with the policy of ambiguity, confusion, bilingualism, we are no longer sure of your real intentions. We are not sure whether you really want an agreement or whether there is another conflict plan in the end. Because none of what you are doing does support the logic that you really want to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u77	Mr Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Mitafidis, Mr. Voutsi has asked for intervention. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u80	Mr Mitsotakis, you have just made a point, which you have not understood: the draft law on public administration has already been introduced into the committees for ten days. On Monday he enters the second committee and we have not been told that it is a unilateral energy. You're the first one to say it's a one-sided action. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm so sorry. Do you understand what you've done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u81	I'm glad you're clarifying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Mitsotakis, please don't interrupt. Let the Minister close his intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u83	Didn't any institution tell us that it's a unilateral action and you come here and give us a resignation on that? It's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u84	I'm glad you would clarify that, Minister! I asked you a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u85	We have legislation, we do not ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Mitsotakis, wait a minute! Have you finished your intervention, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u87	Yes, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u88	I've received exactly the answer that I wanted...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u89	What part do you play?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Mitsotakis, have you asked the Bureau for the floor? I'm so sorry, you get up and start talking. You want the floor, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u91	Who do you represent exactly? Shoeble? The people?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u92	I represent...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u93	The Greeks are represented!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Mitsotakis, are you addressing the Bureau, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u95	I represent ninety-six thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Mitsotakis, are you asking why? Did you ask the Bureau for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u97	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u98	All right, let me give you a minute, Mr Mitsotakis, and I would ask you to respect the time, to make a very brief speech, so that we can close down here. There are fellow Members who want...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u99	I will not accept any more discrediting comments from you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u100	No one made disgraceful remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u101	I represent a party that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u102	Tell us specifically! Why don't you tell us specifically?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u103	You're on your own!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u104	I see the truth is bothering you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u105	Let the man speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u106	Don't interrupt, honourable Members! Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u107	I am therefore pleased, Mr Voutsi, that you recognise that you are in contact with the institutions and that this bill is not considered a unilateral action. I'm recording your statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u108	Mr Mitafidis Rose has the floor from SYRIZA. Come to Stepma, Mr. Mitafidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u109	I'm recording it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall shortly begin the midday news bulletin, and it must, of course, be fed with fresh material. But because what we're talking about is the toughest side of life, I don't think it's funny. On the occasion of the presence of Mrs Bakoyannis, but also of Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to say something, expressing - in my opinion - and interpreting a position of principle of those who fought the dictatorship, because yesterday you abducted us and told us 'when you talk about dictatorship, be careful!' I would like to say, from this step forward, that I honor the memory of your husband who, under illegal conditions, I listened to his broadcasts among others. I would also like to say to you that this left-wing area has a position of principle against individual terrorism. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] And you must not charge him with foreign sins. I want to tell you that we weren't wearing a hood, we didn't hold a gun, but we gave the battle for freedom in open air. It's a start-up position!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u111	Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u112	With you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u113	With me! So now I would like to remind you of a few things in relation to this amendment, for which, in my opinion, you have lifted too much heel, outlining the government's effort, which very modestly tells the rapporteur that he is trying to elect what Fucco - in my opinion quite rightly - calls a'supervisory society' in prisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u114	Let's leave Fouco, finally! Didn't they wear hoods on Marfin?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u115	Yeah, but I didn't interrupt you. I told you something before. How can you agree to and disagree with each other at one moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u116	Marfin, who's charging her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u117	You!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u118	Justice!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u119	You know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, can the debate be stopped so that the speaker can continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u121	Three people were burned in Marfin. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, you can have a dialogue outside with the Minister. I would ask the speaker to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u123	They were wearing hoods on Marfin! Isn't that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u124	Can you hear me, colleague, Mr. Kikilia?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u125	They were wearing hoods on Marfin! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Kikilia, respect the speaker at Step!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u127	Look at something, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you need a vital lie. And I'll repeat something that had been said before: If there was no SYRIZA, you would have invented him. You need a vital lie because you have lost authority. That's what you do all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u128	Are you a vital lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u129	So I want you to listen carefully. The device that you say photographs Xiros is an improvement and extension of the provisions on tolerable damage and we do well. And we do, because in the years of prison, people died next to us from the vengeful fury of the post-war state. It was judges who did not give conditional parole to people eighty-seven, eighty-eight, ninety! They thought they were dangerous to public order and security! I would like to ask you this: Eleven of the coup d'états, you took them out on the grounds of the "unstoppable harm" I imagine the next Tuesday, which is to be completed for eight years from the coup, will again see the Pattakou mussip to move the finger again threateningly. I also want to remind you of the conversion of the perpetual crime of the junta into a momentary. One hundred and a half well-known pounders, even according to the documents of the American secret service, you have freed them without trial. While the victims of the junta filed charges for torture on the last day of the deadline, you considered them late. You don't want to remember that. And now, then, you're abdicating us that we're opening the prisons. Look, we're in favour of decoying. You know that. And it's not our place, it's a place from the era of Enlightenment. It is linked to what we call an open society. We are not followers of the surveillance society, which reproduces criminals. That's what she does. We've been through this. We've lost people with that logic, you know. You know them. They're acquaintances. I do not want to say anything else, ladies and gentlemen. I remembered these, because I think history is very useful in this debate and because all things have their own past and history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Bakoyannis, you have asked for the floor on staff. Warm please, can you develop us briefly why you're asking for the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u131	In short, Mr President, I shall be speaking. My colleague was kind enough to refer to Paul Bakoyannis and I thank him very much. But he also referred to the issues of the junta and the releases. I just want to say one sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u132	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, one sentence is simple: the question of remorse which Mr Mitsotakis raised before is essential. If you remember well, some stayed in prison and died in prison by the people who were sentenced over junta, for they refused to commit crime. The rest of them signed and signed their remorse. That's the warning difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u134	Pattacos didn't sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u135	Yeah, and Patacus. I'm sorry to tell you, but they signed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u136	For health reasons, he's out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u137	Let me finish, ladies and gentlemen. I understand you're upset, but I want you to be able to agree. You, especially from Evritania, be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u138	For health reasons, he's out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u139	Especially you, more careful. So you come and say today that justice has misjudged. That is the question we ask you. If Mr. Nikoloudis refused to leave Mr. Xeros, judging this particular incident, two things happen: Or Mr. Nikoloudis was wrong, so justice was wrong, or Mr. Nikoloudis was right to decide, and then we are wrong to intervene in the judiciary. That is the question that is raised to you. It doesn't come up with any more. I understand humanity and indulgence. And a lot of what has been heard in the Chamber is right. But the question is: Justice decisions will be respected, yes or no? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you think that because we became MPs, we can change the decisions of justice and interfere in its work, then I am sorry, we really disagree. And we disagree because yes, we have a different value code. Because we believe that justice decisions must be respected and not the decisions which each one of us takes lightly. That's our difference and think about it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u140	With justice yours you do not disagree, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u141	Mrs. Bakoyannis, if possible, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u142	With the tolerance of anyone, ladies and gentlemen! Because you have referred to others and compared incomparable things, the convictions that have been and the people are serving their sentences and coming out are different from the convictions that have been and where Parliament decides to take them out of prison. And if that's not what you can understand, then I'm very sorry, because your ideology doesn't let you judge the situation objectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u144	A small complaint I would like to say, which I would like to believe expresses all the new Members. This House - and I think it is very positive - has been renewed to 45%. Some people in this space act like they belong exclusively. I have the feeling that some people have an ownership perception of the Parliament and no time is given to young people - and I would like to believe that 100% of them have entered the House in a very clear way - to have their opinion heard. This is a small complaint and I want to believe that it will be corrected. A second thing I would like to say, before going into my question, is this: I remind you that democracy has three pillars and one of them - at least that is what we all say, when we are not pretending - is justice. It has to do with this bill. The late Sotiris Bayas had proposed the revision of Article 90, where it has greater independence - not total independence - justice, which is the third pillar of the true parliamentary democracy. Here, then, is a glorious field to really speak of justice that is not directed by anyone and to respect all its decisions or any amendments we want in the future. I still have something to say, and I'm getting into my business. I have listened very carefully to the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, who raised many issues, except today. There is a feeling in society now that we are talking about the former political system serving very few specific oligarchal families, with a round about five hundred people. That's a feeling. Another sense is that of impunity. No politician is ever punished under Article 86. I would ask for greater modesty than the people that society sees them today. The political system has been devalued, and we're pulling the millions. Some of the others led us here. As far as today's subject is concerned, I would like to remind you that in the legal events - I am speaking in February 1973 - which preceded the Polytechnic School, I have no hesitation to say that we had the help of Paul Bakoyannis and he was lightning in ethics - I was a doctor in the 'Evangelism' - when we heard about this terrible murder. There is no leniency about terrorism and we know from the outside that, where there was terrorism, it was a hundred times greater. Baader - Minhoff in Germany: absolute repression in Germany. Red Brigades in Italy. Then they drowned all the movements. No one's with the terrorists. No one agrees with them. But is there one issue here: Does democracy have rules? Yes or no? I, without spins, think I've played a decisive role, because I'm a doctor, I tell you that Savvas Dried, a real terrorist, was well condemned five times for life. I'm in a position to know. It's not just the problem that he's blind. He has three more - four explosive problems from which at any time he can die. I was pleased to see the previous colleague who spoke to you about how they died in the cells at the time, because the legislation was tough and strict. I am telling you, then, directly as a doctor, who happens to know, that I have gone tens of times to these things called prisons and which reminds you of Turkey, Libya, Syria, Pakistan - that that reminds me - that the Minister for Justice is doing the minimum today. The Savvas Dried is alive - dead. It's roaming and it can't be self-reserved. Yeah, he's a heinous killer. If we really had conditions to heal him, rehab him and see all his other problems, no objections to staying inside prison. However, I would like to remind you of two more examples. Rudolph Ess, a great potential man, died in Spandau prisons, even though all mankind cried out - to their honor - "Get him out". The German government was strict. He left him and died in jail. Good or bad, I don't know. I will also say to General Dertilis, who refused what Mrs Bakoyannis said: 'No, I do not sign a declaration'. So, as a Member, if he lived today, I would apply for a release for the Dertili, who was accused of murdering the young man at three meters on the polytechnic day, I, who was in the Polytechnic school along with Nikos Manios, who I don't know if he is here and who I love very much and who had a hard anti-dote activity. That is to get to know us in here, because I hear very often from a Parliament wing - I am sorry to say a few - that we are far-right. I've heard it many times. I have nothing to say, to make any comment. I want to say the following on my point. Colleagues, George Soros wrote a book, "The Crisis of Global Capitalism". No one would want to have him a friend. That's where he said that at the moment infraction will be increased. Who said that? The market man who none of us would want to have a friend with him. He tells them, what are you doing? You're choking the world right now. You've dried him up. Eighty-six tycoons have richer than three and a half poorer billions of the planet. If this doesn't trigger offense, what's triggering it? If in a village one has the riches and another hundred are poor, what will they do? Aren't they gonna rob him? They're probably gonna kill him. I believe that its infrastability and extreme form, which is terrorism, has profound social causes. A small step is what the Minister for Justice is doing today, a very small step. I'd like it more powerful. It is perhaps the first real reform in European data. I would also like to remind you that the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and poor countries, such as Pakistan, Turkey, Libya, Syria, where infraction is at 60% and 70%. Therefore, yes, when a person is a breacher he must be punished. Do we have to be indulgent where we should be? Yeah. I directly say to you this: let us dare to amend Article 90 of the Constitution next - as Bayas said, perhaps more extremistly - to amend it. Not to be appointed by the Ministerial Council, if we want to say and be honest, that it is its pillar. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by calling for time tolerance for new Members, because we are hardly ever talking about them. It is a bill that we are not only voting for, but we consider it to be moving in the right direction. We think it's a first step and we're here so that this little step can make it bigger and bigger. It's a fact - and you know - that those who come out of prison today are getting worse. You know what Blastos and the others do in prison, that have money, while the whacks and the others will get worse! So it is really a step in the right direction. That is why I welcome it and vote for it. Thank you and forgive me for the tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Chanaka Alexandra has the floor, then Mrs Tahiaou Christina, and then I will give the floor to the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Koutsukouko. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the SYRIZA Members who has signed all three amendments tabled. I did this on the basis of the three-way SYRIZA programme in the last elections, the Thessaloniki programme: dignity, justice, democracy. I support this draft law, along with the three amendments, serves all three ways. The bill gives dignity to Articles 2, 4 and 7 in the weakest sections of prisoners, such as minors, drug users and small offenders. All three amendments treat to a minimum - but they do - the sense of justice. I am pleased that the Minister, even with some changes, accepted the amendments that are customary as hoodet and DNA. That is why I will only deal with the third amendment, which the Minister has so far not accepted. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here to listen to me, but I hope that what I am going to say will be carried forward. I shall therefore focus on the amendment on the cessation of the prosecution of trade unionists, namely justice and democracy. The struggles of workers and citizens in movements are protected by the country's constitution. The struggles of workers and movements are a means of pressure on employers and governments that have so far served bosses for a better life, for better working conditions. And while, as we said in the Constitution, Article 23 protects the right to strike, in practice various laws criminalise it. On the basis of Articles 290, 291 and 292 of the Criminal Code, as well as Article 34(12) of the Law. 2696/1999, 20 seafarers in Thassos were first sentenced to eight months' imprisonment for their participation in the strike on 11 March 2010 and then their follow-up. What's the seamen's place of work? Where will they get together when they're on strike? They're not going to the port? Where are they going? Is it possible for strikers to be charged with blocking traffic? What about the cab drivers? The truck drivers? If their mobilizations don't make them in the workplace, so on the street, where will they do them? All of these, claiming a better life, but also defending their rights, were found or are faced with criminal persecutions and convictions. I therefore argue that the vote on this amendment brings a sense of justice and equal treatment for citizens, since this has been done before. By Article 25 of the EC Treaty. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of Regulation (EC) No 2721/1999 in respect of aid granted to farmers participating in the agricultural mobilisations in May 1997. I support the fact that the vote in favour of this amendment and the end of the prosecution of striker seafarers for blocking traffic is a small stone in the restoration of democracy and in compliance with the constitution and I ask the Minister to see it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague, Mrs Tahiau, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday morning I have to say that I have changed - I do not know how many times - my speech, depending on the climate. I've adapted it more to Mr. Paradise. Unfortunately, he's not here right now. The draft law, which has been tabled, is supposed to improve detention conditions and in general penitentiary. Once again, then, the government puts a philosophical headline - a window, which usually has little to do with the contents of the bills. "It blackmails" vote, achieves another purpose and stands away from any reform, while constantly promises that moves will be made in this direction, the direction of reform. This bill has been baptized “Reforms of criminal law”. And how that is done, I would like to know from the Minister. By valoring the prisons? By dismissing convicted unconditional prisoners and sending them home? Is that a reform? If that is reform, the previous ones have done so. It says that the Minister - and he is absolutely right - did not create the very bad conditions in Greek prisons and that he must of course improve them. The report by the Council of Europe, as well as international court rulings, accuses Greece of poor structures and inhumane detention conditions, and this must be changed immediately. And so, you're right. The previous governments have not been able to change them for decades, but it is not possible for you to change them with horizontal unconditional release measures and conditions and continue the same bad practice. You repeat a bad practice. You yourself, Minister, who unfortunately are absent, said that in recent years the horizontal release provisions have been repeated and the measure has not been achieved. That is what the Council of Europe's report says. Yesterday, both the rapporteur, Mr Fotilila, and Mr Kartsoulis, the speaker, said so. The 2014 report states: "The early release measures have not finally had the slightest effect". Regarding the urgency of the bill, please invoke the bad practices of previous governments and the report itself, which highlights the failure of bad practices, but you are here to repeat them. Cos^ fanno tutti, that's how everyone does. Use this as an excuse for repeating bad practices. You refer to the dismissal of detainees for alleged humanitarian reasons after ten years of their sentence. And I want to ask a simple question. Is there a humanitarian reason only after the end of the ten years? So if anyone has such a serious health problem, this humanity in prison conditions doesn't have to exist from day one? Mankind is the naughty release? And it is sad, because the Minister is a man of unknown sensitivity, cultivated and has a very good opportunity to make a difference, solve the problem, change the approach of crime. For me, it's good to have dialogue with everyone. I agree and I do not ask anyone for the dialogue. Personally, I have taken a step further in this matter. A year and a half ago I was publicly posted in Protagon on my classmate, who was sentenced as a member of 17 November. He served a sentence and showed remorse. He's an instructor and he was fired because of his history. So I myself also claimed, having a personal view of man and believing in his remorse, that a remorseful terrorist can provide services in the educational process, having passed through the dark side of life and shown sincere remorse. So, in my opinion, such a person could make an effective contribution to the war on violence. I wrote it, put it in public, and I say it now, because I believe that this can be the case for dialogue. But the problem with the other dialogue, which you call on in here, is that it is not a dialogue that aims at prisons being penalised, decongested and reinstated. The problem is that this dialogue aims to present doomed criminals for more human crimes in society alienated from their crimes. But you should know very well that in the ways you use, you do not reform. On the contrary, you are decriminating and alleviating crimes. You are not making the penitentiary system less inhuman, you are helping to despair violence with political motives. Unwittingly, you also contribute to the stricterisation of penalties - this has already been pointed out - as it is proven that the judges impose stricter penalties, knowing that some time there will be a bill of decongestion of prisons. We say that the river will support everything right to come to the House. But where is this proper bill on improving detention conditions and human structures? Where's the bill that seeks real penitentiation and smooth reintegration? With this bill, in fact the state admits that it does not have the ability to deliver justice, that it does not have the ability to confiscate and send the prisoners home. But the state should, in any case, be able to treat anyone within the framework of its imprisonment. There's a lot of trouble with the bill. For example, it does not serve the equivalency between disabled and not before their crime. The first ones are aware of their lighter treatment in advance and certainly do not have punishment as a stimulus. So, with this true pretext of improving the penitentiary system, the socially necessary that Potami would support, you go through unrelated, other than photographic, release measures. This bill makes crimes virtually unpunished and SYRIZA's rapporteur said that she wants this law to stop the shame. How will it stop shameful, how will it stop misery, violence, drugs, the organization of new crimes in prisons? By getting rid of the problem and sending it to his house? No measure concerns penitentiary and the best detention conditions in shops. No measure comes to cure what Greece is accused of. Reports and judicial decisions want better prisons, not open prisons. We're not talking about sending the terrorist killers to their homes. With regard to the reform, I now have a measure of substantial reform to propose and it is wondered that the words 'farmer prisons' are absent from anywhere, from every dialogue. The food of prisons and prisoners is close to two euros for three meals a day. Let's not go now to comparisons for allowances and croissants, we don't have time now and there's no reason. If only we think that two rural prisons in Kassandra and Kassaveteia have close to the ten thousand acres which can be exploited, cultivated, produced and created an amazing opportunity for both decongested and improving the conditions of detention, offering work, producing work, reintegration, true penitentiary and feeding other prisons. As long as I can tell you that the rural prisons of Cassandra produce about 700 tonnes of very high quality hard wheat, there are too many acres of good olive trees. These products, which could be made food for the feeding of prisoners, result in feedingstuffs. And the worse in this story is that rural prisons remain empty or inactive, there is no infrastructure and organisation, even at the application stage and their transfer there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a few seconds' time, Mr President, I shall end. With little money, not more than five million, as calculated, all Community and with the partnership of the relevant ministries, can be reconstructed in Greece and become exemplary for the entire European area. It needs political will and flexicurity. Such procedures will enable them to leave prison and barbecue, with a certification of the knowledge of agricultural work. This improves the conditions for detention and reintegration, and this is the policy that the European Union insists on - and we too insist. I would call on the Minister to address the issue of prison and reintegration seriously and with an open mind, not with open prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Koutsoukos, PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, then Mr Hadjisavvas from the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add at the end of my speech the bill, which has been tabled and which we are discussing today, that the government is at the most general juncture in order to incorporate it into a context in which the country is today and is moving. I will do this backwards, because the honourable Minister for the Interior, Mr Voutsis, and yesterday he has caused us to say as PASOK what we say about the negotiation and the red lines of the government. For his part, since he is the renowned ruler of the government and overseeers in general for keeping the right line, he is right to do so. Because what SYRIZA needs today is a stimulus of ideological and policy. It also seeks to achieve this by either politicising measures and not reform, such as the draft legislation under discussion - and I shall mention - or even seeking internal enemies. I would say - and I would like to say this - that Mr Voutsi has no right to call on us to sit down, as I would like to remind him that when the negotiation with our partners and our lenders, the so-called institutions now - and because SYRIZA has a good network in social media, he can look for the relevant announcements and positions of PASOK - we had set our own red lines, which concerned: not the reduction of wages, pensions, not collective redundancies, not VAT on the islands. In view of the negotiation we then called on SYRIZA to take a stand against these red lines and to place itself in the specific context that we were setting and said to close the negotiation, without further blood - the people have paid enough, the society, Greece has made progress - to take the so-called preventive credit line to get out of the memorandum - because in order to leave the memorandum you have to go to the markets and someone to lend you - to close our relationship with the IMF, using the 11 billion CF - which we do not have now, Mr Varoufakis gave them back - and, of course, as a result of this whole agreement, would be the debt debate, the parameters, what the November 2012 Council has decided on. This box we presented at the time, these red lines we set and we invited SYRIZA to take place. SYRIZA said "elections". And how he caused elections, it's known. It has provoked the elections by exploiting - and I would say - the constitutional obligation of Parliament to elect a President of the Republic with an eighty-eight Members. And not just did he not consent to the election of the President of the Republic, but he also undermined any agreement that could exist within Parliament, setting up this whole set of silver MPs. And so we led to the elections that SYRIZA was the first party to, as he would very much like to take over the country's rule. And we wished him the 25th of January the night of good luck. And we told him: Take our own red lines, take advantage of your electoral victory, take a step further and make the National Negotiations Committee, if you want a national front for the negotiation! If you don't do this after so many months, if you travel between a battle with words, to reach an agreement at Eurogroup on 20 February, you lose a month in translation to go on 20 March and to the Seven-Seven Conference and you're still in the mail mailing by Mr Varoufakis - a number not at all! - to interpret the negotiation, you can't ask people to tell you where they stand, but you're obliged to tell the National Representation your own plan! And the government's plan so far we don't know, it's not clear. It wins time by day, week by week, month by month, and the dates of the national agreement to go to June, where in a beautiful ambalaz will pack all remaining doses against a new memorandum, a new agreement. Finally, bring it, convince your parliamentary group to vote on it, so that there can be a stable and secure framework that the country needs today. In view of this vacuum of a safe framework of reference, it is indeed necessary for the government to have an internal ideological stimulus to stand by its Members who are following developments. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, an attempt has been made to present these measures, which the bill proposes as a reform. In his hands, the Ministry of Justice has the Code of Criminal Procedure, it has the Criminal Code, it has the Penitentiary Code. If my memory is not deceiving me, the Committee of the Penitentiary Code of Parliament has unanimously decided on the changes that are needed, because the findings made here from this Step, not now, but for many years now, on the situation in prisons, are so much worse. So, then, there was a glorious field to discuss a reform and especially progressively, since we have a government for the first time left, as it claims. Instead, we have measures. What are the measures? These are humanitarian measures, with which we agree. After all, this is not the first time that this House has voted on humanitarian measures. He was courtesy of the Minister of Justice yesterday to report to his predecessors, Athanasios Kanelleopoulos, Evangelos Venizelos, I would add...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u151	Also Evangelos Giannopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I have never spoken before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u153	You'll have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u154	No, I don't want your tolerance, I want my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u155	It's your denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u156	No, it's not a denology, it's a protology. I have 12 minutes, Mr President. I haven't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u157	He hasn't spoken at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u158	I have not spoken at all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u159	The other Parliamentary representatives have also taken eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u160	The other Parliamentary Representatives had used their time as a foreword. This is a request to complete. I would also mention Mr Miltiadis Papaioannou, the last minister to take measures and I also remember that SYRIZA had voted for them. We've taken several steps. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot join us in the Javert class. With Ayannis we are, with the "poor devils" we are simply not with the major criminals, with the criminals, with the merchants, with the terrorists. We're not with them. That is why we are voting for the measures and we are asking you for the divisions. You can't identify us with the extreme right because we're making your criticism. For while accepting the logic of the security top-secret prisons that do not exist. You are abolishing them, without having ensured what these dangerous criminal prisoners will become, who are obviously trespassing on the rights of other prisoners, who also need protection for them. You cannot throw them into the nets of the mafia, nor can you criticise us, because we tell you that the national front against terrorism, such as the national front against fascism, needs to be respected. It is a conquest of democracy, of post-multipleism, I would say, of the post-war state. You say that we have deviated to far-right lines, when you confront yourself with a party that has a leader, who has not only a far-right rhetoric, but also a far-right practice, when yesterday the acting Minister of Justice made the sliding of criticising the prosecutor, to tell him what he should do to allow Golden Dawn. The House has another job, another job, the executive, another job, the judiciary. He knows these things first and foremost and better, and the Justice Minister must protect them. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, as much as trying to ideologicalize and politicise the measures, rather than reforming the criminalisation of poverty, which many of your speakers have said was the result of the memoranda - forgetting what was prevailing in prisons and before the memoranda - the overthrow cannot be carried out in conditions of the country's poverty. Progressive policy in poorer conditions cannot be achieved. Any progressive policy must be in a safe context where a country produces and fairly shares the results of production, with society and producers of shareholders. In this model, we come to discuss and agree. And in order to shorten the time I am entitled to, so as not to fight with the Bureau and obey its derogation, I will finish by saying this: Ladies and gentlemen, we can be proud that in this area we are always a progressive reform force. Mr. Voutsis was again kind enough to refer to the issue of permission. We have not just legislated, but we have defended it, Minister. And you remember our own initiatives in this Chamber on the Romanian case. So don't knock open doors. With this logic, a progressive reformist force, we will vote and vote against the specific articles of the bill, as our rapporteur, Mrs Gennamas, has explained to you, and as I believe she will have the opportunity to clarify both the articles and the amendments. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr. Hajasavvas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u162	Will you tell us the order, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u163	After Mr. Hadjisavvas is Mrs. Kefaliannis, Mr. Psychogios, Mrs. Haitanis, Mr. Karaoglou. I told you the next four.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u164	I asked you for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u165	If you want to talk, after Mr. Hadjisavva and another colleague, you will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Because there was some mention, to say: Tsukatos, Tsochazopoulos, Mandelis, Papantoniou, Tsovolas. Let me just say one more thing, 'cause I've been sitting here for hours waiting for me to talk. The 'personnel'! "Personal" means one, "personnel" to the other! Consider what has to be done if every time someone refers to the Golden Dawn, we also take the floor on staff. We would sit here 24 hours to talk about 'on staff'. What I'm saying is I don't want any of you to take it as a complaint, because it's not a complaint. Away from me, something like that. I just want to give the new Members of the other parties an opportunity to feel as I felt the concepts heard every day in this Chamber, even now on the principle and on the articles, for example the concept of 'free speech'. When I came down to Athens as a Member of Parliament now, the oldest competitor Members told me that I should know that what I would say from a Chamber Step I may meet them tomorrow in a litigation against me in a court of law. Also, I see some words are forbidden. Prohibit as many words as you like. These problems remain. Republic. Well, here I could talk for hours. Half the seats of the Golden Dawn are empty. It is empty, because one prosecutor said it is not the duty of the Greek MPs to go to Parliament. As far as I see it in some other wings, the Members believe exactly the same. The other sense of democracy that I took as a new Member is in the question of questions. They asked Greek Members questions to Mrs Christodoulopoulos - they are not here - on matters relating to their institutional role, of course, and she said that she does not answer the fascist criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn, despising the role of Members of the Greek Parliament. But let me not blame Mrs Christodoulopoulos for her responsibilities. However, I asked the Ministry of Health some questions, not foreigners who go free to hospitals, while Greeks pay contributions, tickets and all of them, nor about such "Greek" as we say. I asked about the shortcomings of the hospitals in central Macedonia and Kilkis, of course, where I am elected. Mr. Kurublis normally answers the first two in his honor. Mr Blonde in my next tone answers: 'We will abstain from answering questions put to us by the above or other Members of the Golden Dawn for constitutional and parliamentary reasons'. Why -- he says -- they have charges. Do I have charges? Does Mr. Blonde know anything we don't know? What does "we abstain" mean? Because Mr. Curublis is answering me! I cannot understand why so much fear from the guardians of democracy to operate it. As you can see, Mr. Voutsi, the Minister is gone. Anyway. He said that in democracy there is no 'no dialogue'. There is no debate, even at the level of elected Members. Other concepts I hear in here: Humanity. Those who are asking for immigration laws to be applied, not to stacked in apartments dozens of people in miserable hygiene conditions and not to be slaves for five-eight, because some have leveled their countries with armies of occupation, are inhumane. Selling goods for as they must be bosses and becoming stallers of Greek-speaking perverts for a dish is humanity! Anyway. The jihadist army is preparing in Europe either we want it or we do not want it. When some planes leave to go to their apartments abroad, the Golden Dawn here will be here then. The issue of gold mines in Skouria was also mentioned. That's a big deal. I can't analyze it now. And at Kilkis, we have the same problem. In the Sapes, there's the same problem. Fortunately, there is still no work done and we have no conflicting aspects of workers and citizens, who are against it. Fortunately, because we see what the Skouria occupation in Halkidiki is. I hope that we will not mourn victims of all that is happening there. Everyone who knows what's going on there right now will understand what I'm saying. Trying to explain to the bourgeois right what self-financing of a project without overcompensation and for the benefit of local society with jobs, is impossible. Okay, I get it. But SYRIZA's government should normally be able to understand that. Either way, all those who are looking to find gold in our Skouria, towns and villages, we invite them to open their accounts and lockers in and out of Greece, which are full of gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Kefaliannis has the floor. He's not here? Mrs Lyberaki, a party parliamentary representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like three points to make: the first is a question to the Minister, Mr Paradoxopoulos. The second is a matter for consideration to this House. The third is an answer to Mr Voutsi, who was here. In fact, I was about to say that so labouring and loyal soldier of the House rarely sees. Unfortunately, he left five minutes ago. That's true, though. The first thing I wanted to say is the question to Mr Paradise. I would really ask if you would be kind enough to clarify this and if you could give it to us in writing, which of the SYRIZA Members' amendments you are accepting, because there is an ambiguity and a multiple reading. I ask someone and she tells me that this was accepted, someone else tells me it wasn't accepted. I think it will help us to know where we are and where we stand. The second concerns the question of reflection to this House: many very interesting things have been heard since yesterday. The words 'Indulgence' and 'humanitarian values' have been heard too many times. I consider it very important and very positive. But I would like to say that it was circulating more firmly - in a few speeches only came out clearly, in words - of the view that social difficulties, social injustices, deprivations are the main reason or are a very important reason for the violation. I mean, while at first sight it can be said that there may be some connections, which may sometimes come out and sometimes not out, and while it sounds too radically, as it manages to hit the system at the same time in an integrated way and somewhat alleviate the position of people who accept the pressure of the penitentiary, it is, in fact, a very anachronistic and very dishonoring view. It is an opinion which is too paternalistic and which underestimates every man, man and woman, and takes away part of his freedom of movement and his decisions. It's like saying completely paternalistic: "It's okay, poor he was, let's kill five to six, it's okay", which actually puts him in a position of reduced self-consciousness and freedom eventually. The most dangerous, however, is that it creates a belief that the poorest people and the most wronged are prone to criminal behaviour. I want to tell you this, because many times in the general mood of criticism and overthrowing of things we think that with some expressions we are burning the bad and helping the good ones and in fact, regardless of our intentions, what we are doing is dragging and we are dancing the downgrading of people, which I think is very problematic. Certainly, in the poor countries with the many poor people, these views are considered entirely reactionary and darkening, and I would like to protect us as a Parliament and as parliamentarians, men and women, from such views as I believe they are not within anyone's intent. What I would like to say in relation to Mr Voutsi, who is not here, is that there was really something disarmament about his question yesterday: Well, tell us what to do? So, should we give it all up? Since you see there is difficulty, we are under terrible pressure. Yesterday I preferred not to comment on it, because perhaps I did not understand very well that the work of the parliamentary representative is to talk about matters other than the bills that are being discussed and, as a good student, I would like to talk about what is to be discussed. However, because he said this again today, of course, only to New Democracy and PASOK - he said: 'if you have ideas, say them' - I think this time I will try to say that what the government needs to do - and he must do so as much as possible in agreement and in support with all the Greek people - it is to go as quickly as possible for an agreement. I understand that the agreement is genuinely we all want it, but I believe that from the two months that have passed since 20 February, there are obviously quite a few thorns. I think that as a member of this House, but also as a member of this society, I have the question: Where exactly does this agreement stumble? I understand we expected funds to be released at some point on the Great Week. They weren't released. We had great hopes on 24 April. It seems that they may not be confirmed. Let's go for May. In other words, there is an extension of the uncertainty, a poisonous uncertainty, which surely harms both the economy and society. I think it would be more useful for the Prime Minister to come out and explain exactly what these issues are, which are asked for by our country and to which he cannot or is not ready to consent. The wider the cycle of participants in this debate, the more I believe the determination with which we will deal with the problem, which we have before us, will also strengthen I believe. In any case, I would like to remind you that Greece's problem can now be the risk of a lack of liquidity, which in the worst case - which we all are absent and all - could also lead to bankruptcy, but the real long-term problem, which is giving rise to this problem today, is that our economy is in a terrible weakness to produce products and services that people want to buy in the world and here. This means that it must be too fast, as the negotiation goes, whatever the outcome of the negotiation, even if the Magica De Spel shows up and says "I'm writing off the debt, Christine Lagard completely," we'll have a topic here. We'll have issues to talk about. We will be very happy to have left a burden on our shoulders, but the daily life of the way our economy works, public and private, is such that it will start to accumulate - it already does - new deficits. This means that this time we have either shared the government's concerns - we would like very much and we are prepared to help - or the government considers that it does not want to share them with us. But it must share with the Greek people the big issues on which our country must respond anyway. In these and all the other useful things, the river will be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Georgios Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the final straight ahead of the resolution of this bill of the Ministry of Justice, following a thorough debate which preceded the responsible standing committee, a debate which, on the one hand, included an extremely constructive hearing of bodies and on the other hand, an impotence of arguments on the substance of the bill on the part of the Anti-Population Committee and, above all, of the Officerial Response. It became clear from the positions of the vast majority of the bodies that this bill is moving in the right direction. It gives solutions, lays the foundations for improving the country's penitentiary system, but at the same time it needs to be accompanied by a package of measures at institutional level, so that it can be a real part of the country's data so far. The Minister knows this and the committee referred to the next moves made by the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the bill under discussion, there is the notion of dignity, which was an unreasonable place in the SYRIZA election campaign and is a key position on the Left, but also on the European and international texts and institutions. Respect for prisoners who remain in prison rather than in prison, who constitute C-style prisons, according to which forty-three prominent criminals and forensics are also involved. Respect for these categories of detainees who are dismissed on terms or who alternatively serve their sentence, dignity for the penitentiary officials whose representative transferred his agony during the committee's meeting, but also for specific positions in this particular category. Finally, dignity for a political system which must no longer tolerate the inhuman conditions of the Greek prisons, which affect both our country and our culture. The draft law under discussion aims at the humanisation and alignment of the functioning of the Greek penitentiary system with the European and international obligations undertaken by the country. Most of his articles seek to dismantle Greek prisons. More specifically, Article 2 of the bill refers to the legislature in the field of minor prisoners, foreigners in Greek prisons and patients, over-aged and disabled detainees, who experience the conditions of incarceration much less than all other prisoners. At the same time, bullying is systemized for the first time by amending Article 312 of the Criminal Code, for which continuous cruel behaviour is required to cause physical injury or damage to physical or mental health, and is punished by imprisonment. The criticality of the decongestion of prisons, as well as in general the upgrading of detention conditions, is further exacerbating the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, as was demonstrated at the hearing of the institutions, mainly by the Greek Union for Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has only in recent years issued more than forty judgments condemning Greece for violating Article 3 of the ECHR, thereby imposing fines on our country of approximately EUR 2 million. In one of them, in the case of Chokas and others against Greece, the applicants complained that Tripolis prisons, although having a capacity for sixty-five prisoners, came to host more than two hundred fifteen at the end of 2012 and that their living conditions were miserable and third-world. The Court of Justice condemned the Greek State for inhuman and degrading treatment, invoking the sum of EUR 133,300 as compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting at this point - as in my work as human rights lawyers I attended the meeting of this case - that its treatment by the judges was another routine case for Greece. In fact, one could easily see in their recommendations the sceptic style for the continuous and continuous non-compliance of the Greek Government with the established case-law of the institution. To be more specific about what "conformity" means, Greece's compliance with the judgments of the Court of Justice is to take rapid and effective emergency measures in order to avoid the continued degrading treatment of the prisoners and the risk of their life and health. Therefore, the exceptional measures provided for in Article 6 of this Legislative Decree may legally not be the appropriate way, but they respond to the immediate and pressing need to address the situation and to avoid fines. In addition to these condemnations and the other hundred and ninety-one cases pending at the Court of Justice in Strasbourg and which will be judged as a priority, the report by the Commission of the Council of Europe against torture, which highlights the steady deterioration of the conditions of living and treatment of detainees, inappropriate conditions, lack of adequate medical care, violence among detainees, aggravated by dramatic overpopulation of prisons, is noted. Minister, it is clear that targeted interventions in the Penitentiary and Criminal Code must be followed in order to ensure that both the institutional framework and the structures and the human resources needed to create a modern penitentiary system are guaranteed. Article 10 of this draft law provides for the increase of detention shop staff. This increase is absolutely essential in order to resolve issues of living, health and safety of prisoners and staff, but neither is it sufficient nor does it solve the problem itself. Actions related to the upgrading of the penitentiary system should be of a qualitative and medium-term nature so that the provisions of this draft law are strengthened and not left without opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the amendments tabled, I would like to note the following. First of all, as regards the amendment to the owlman known to us all, we must note with the latter that a law that has been strongly criticised as unconstitutional, as contrary to Articles 7 and 25 of the Constitution, as undemocratic and dangerous, from the whole scientific community, such as the Plenary Assembly of the Hellenic Associations, has been abolished, but which has proved in practice and completely ineffective, as only demonstrators have been arrested on the basis of their clothing. All parties, KKE, ANEL, Potami and PASOK have been placed in this law, saying that it must either be completely abolished or significantly differentiated. Secondly, the proposed amendment on how to obtain DNA goes back to the Constitution, to Articles 2, 5, 7(2) of the Constitution and to the European Convention on Human Rights, to Article 3 of the ECHR. It is also in line with a specific recommendation from the Council of Europe on the use of DNA analysis in criminal justice, which sets as a precondition for the use of genetic analyses for the purpose of identifying the perpetrator the non-violence of fundamental principles such as the principle of the dignity of the person and respect for the human body, the rights of the defence and, as always, the principle of proportionality. The same points out in all its opinions on the subject and the Privacy Authority. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is clear from the debate on this bill that there is a conflict between two worlds: one railway, literally and transport, which is based on fear to impose its economic, social and institutional choices, on the other, a world of humanity, tolerance, dignity, dignity - I call upon my colleague, Mr Emmanuelides - and on the intention to put at the heart of his legislative and other initiatives to discipline rather than revenge towards people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Haitani has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had years to see a bill in this House that has a humanitarian character, a bill that is not miserable, is not a vengeance to the weak, a bill that is not punishing and murdering people who have no right to self-protection, such as minors, heavy disabled people, migrants, drug addicts, over-aged people who are imprisoned in prisons. It is a bill that tries to relieve both prisoners and their families and the penitentiary employees. It is no coincidence, after all, that it is accepted by so many institutions. So far, what we have seen has been laws that have impoverished society, led people to unemployment, removed the right to education and health, burdened the environment. To implement these laws, a state of emergency had to be established. With a gelbee propaganda, which said that the major problem of society is increasing crime and hoodiers, Karamanlis government in 2009 voted for the well-known hoodier or else a law on hiding the characteristics of the person most applied by the government of Papandreou. Despite promises to abolish it, then from top executives, this was impossible since he chose the disastrous austerity policy of the memorials. It was not a crime to you that the effects of the economic crisis on the lives of workers and youth were not a crime. It was a crime to resist the plans for violent redistribution of wealth by the poor to the rich. So, the hoodkeeper was made, not for the criminals who wanted to hide, but for those who wanted to resist. How can we explain that the hoodman was unilaterally applied to the people who defended the environment in Keratea and Skouria, to the workers who came out on the sidewalk in the pan-Hellenic strikes, to those who protested against impoverishment by hundreds of thousands in the Constitution, who reacted to Alexis Gregopoulou's murder? In order to foster a climate of generalised terrorism, it was also applied to the road mainly against young people, because they were not sufficiently clothed, but not to the golden people, the interlocutors of the New Democracy and the PASOK standing next to the helmets with helmets, bats, beating shields that were beating and stabbing with the tolerance of ELAS. Mr. Vorides talked to us about nightbrains. But he didn't tell us about neighborhood brass who systematically attacked mothers and children in the playground because they were immigrants or some strange hooded dudes who were also standing next to the police cages. It was, however, also a distortion of political law that matched the protesters with the occupants of the occupation. I should like to stress, therefore, that the handkerchief and hood used by the movements are timelessly how to prevent repression in periods of wild class struggle. On the contrary, the mob hood was always a cowardly part of it, to cooperate with the system and the forces of repression against the movement. In 1943, the first cocoon was established by the government of the docks of John Rally. It's not the first time he came in 2009. And then the law referred to a predicament case in committing crimes, such as seizures of public buildings and attacks against the police by the perpetrators. That's what today's hoodmen were called. But always when a new criminal law was introduced against supposedly marginal groups was to break down, slander and marginalize pieces of the labour and popular movement. In fact, however, it was to prevent his growth before he realised his power and did not stop after. During the period of 1943, these groups have a name-named ESM-ELAS, as Zapatistas in Mexico, who fought for their autonomy, Palestinians claiming their state, the ghettoed youths in the Paris suburbs, second generation immigrants, the workers in the South Korean car industry who were invading the protests, the insurgent youth in December 2008, the generation of precariousness and unemployment, the hundreds of thousands of strikers of the 2010-2012 demonstrations in Greece. In fact, illegality for you is not handkerchief and hood. Illegality for you is resistance. It's not the person who's hiding, it's what anger chokes it. That is why it is not just a question of a European acquis, of SYRIZA's partners and comrades - that is, of course - but also of the class acquis. And because we are not afraid of the movement, because we were born and raised in it any law against labour and people's forces and youth will abolish it and broaden social rights and democratic freedoms. That's our policy. Through attempting to overthrow austerity we will cancel all the repressive legislation of the past few years. This bill, like the SYRIZA Members' amendments, is in this direction and is the beginning. Despite the terrorism and the extreme right-wing deliriums from New Democracy, the so-called sensitive Potami and systemic media, which only manage to strengthen the fascists, will not retreat either a step into our values and principles of the radical Left nor a step by the time-consuming demands of our movement and world. Because, no matter how many centers they want to lose our soul, we're not his Left nothing. We're the Left of the Act! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I just asked Mrs Kefaliannis in turn to come and speak. Mrs. Kefaliannis wasn't in the Chamber. He came to me immediately afterwards, when Mr. Psychogius had taken the step, and told me that for personal reasons he could not be here at that time. She has now asked me not to lose her right to speak. Because Mr Karaoglu is not present in the Chamber, I would like you to allow me to give her that possibility, despite her previous absence. I think you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u174	So Mrs Kefalayannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill for the abolition of type III detention shops and for the decongestion of prisons through mass releases. At the same time, the country is facing an increased and uncontrolled flow of immigrants and refugees now. At the same time, the country faces a massive wave of public buildings taking over. At the same time, the relevant government ministers simply describe the facts as observers and not as executive power. This means, in short, that the government does not seem to be interested in matters of security, life and public order at all, but it seems to be concerned mainly or solely with the rights of sometimes detained terrorists and sometimes anti-government groups. No interest in the right to security, order, protection of the law. Indeed, an unexplained attitude to a government, namely one of the pillars of the state, the executive power in its hands to protect, not only the other two forms of power, but also the people as a whole. But is this not an unexplainable attitude, though? Is it the result of a series of obsessed, ideological strangles, serving minorities against general good, to the good of society as a whole? Because this shows the spirit of the bill, a fragmented bill you rushed to bring to debate and vote in the House. Why is that? What purposes do you serve? The real problem of decongestion of prisons is transformed by the government's draft law into emergency measures, as is the title of Article 4, namely measures of generalised release, which effectively abolish judicial decisions and operate in a formal manner, i.e. without an individual examination by the judicial authority. In addition, these exceptional measures of a mass nature lead to generalised liberalisation, regardless of the type of offence. Can you, Minister, finally guarantee us public security? Can you assure the House and the Greek people that public order will not be disturbed? But what public security and what public order? The government does not even see that there is such a problem at the moment. As he has for the past few days, through rumours the relevant Civil Protection Agency and the Ministers themselves from Ministry to Ministry, by the Ministry of Home Affairs in Justice, has finally been temporarily stabilised, but always with the characteristic style of full apathy. Both Mr Panoussis and Mrs Christodoulopoulos, all they do is give interviews, simply comment and not act and when they act - especially Mrs Christodoulopoulos - to do so by facilitating the already huge flow of immigration, creating the conditions to increase migration and refugee flows even further. In other words, the SYRIZA Government, by facilitating entry, by abolishing the re-promotion and by failing to control the migration flows, has created an explosive climate within a short time. Anyone who wants to come to Greece by land or sea, without any control. It crosses the border and usually ends in the center of Athens. But this is not happening anywhere else in the world. Why isn't it happening? Because in all the other parts, the states must protect security and cohesion, and that is why they control migratory flows. At the moment, on the coasts of Turkey and North Africa, millions of people are joining together with the eye on Europe, towards Greece. They are refugees and immigrants from Asia, Africa, the Middle East, that is to say, people who are asking to cross into Europe and who have a government that gives the signal of free movement to them. A Greece that is on the limit, which has a problem of unemployment and financing the social state, instead of better control the borders, instead of protecting the people and the country, is giving the signal of facilitation. The results are seen. Within two months the number of immigrants entering the country has tripled and they end up in Athens. The immigration issue is a European problem. But the problem of SYRIZA, who thinks the state is a network, is not governed by a country but by a non-governmental organisation, has also been added to the European problem. This has also been demonstrated by the multi-day occupation of the Rectory. It had to take many days to make the state self-evident, to safeguard public property, to protect public security. A small group of anti-citizens destroyed every concept of law and every concept of right, extorting rawly and unequivocally the government, the Greek state. Other groups systematically recently vandalize, destroy property, ghetto areas like Exarchia, kill the city's shopping mall. And you, your government, that is, is looking in apathy. Or rather, worse still, it legislates to appease these groups, which unfortunately appear to regulators who are co-forming and ultimately writing a bill, a bill that unfortunately - and I say it with great regret - is being cut off and sewn into measures of condemned terrorists, serves and photographs specific cases. Greek democracy - and you know it very well, Minister - in the years of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multition. We risked and are at risk from terrorism. We paid a large, heavy bloodload as a society. The perpetrators of terrorism are enemies of democracy. Some of their nostalgics wrote it in the courtyard of the House. They fought her, sacrificing dozens of people. But democracy is not avenged, blackmailed, afraid. She must be strict, but fair to her enemies. Before it is late, the government needs to be serious and to consider having Greece's fates in its hands. He has no right to play with the future of the country. The moments are critical, and that is why you must consider your responsibilities, the weight and the history of the period we are going through. Find the ways, even at this hour, to perceive the needs, the agony, the fears of the overwhelming majority of the Greeks. You must be the government of all Greeks and not the government of extreme minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Barbarousis Konstantinos from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you Christ well, many years! Mrs. Kefaliannis, two and a half months ago was something different with regard to immigrants? I don't understand. Wasn't your Chief the first lesson to open the border to get all these irregularities into - as they're called - immigrants? Despite the fact that the permanent inclination of the other parties is that Golden Dawn is a party of complaint and has no proposals, usually the reality disproves you. Our country's penitentiary system is extremely imperfect, as is demonstrated in practice every day. The non-existence of an integrated plan, inappropriate infrastructure and procedures, the undersubmitment of prisons, the overarm of the prisoners, as well as the lack of trained personnel, favour the unregulated and effective penitentiary functioning of the prisons. The problematic functioning of the penitentiary shops has deteriorated in recent years, due to the influx of immigrants into our home country, without the necessary legal documents, which carry out criminal acts, as is the case with prisons, as is the case with our country's hospitals. Golden Dawn, as I said before, is not a party that makes a sterile opposition, but we have specific positions and proposals on all the issues of our society, as well as on the issue of the penitentiary system. We believe that this bill is in the right direction, but we think it has many shortcomings and ambiguities. In particular, with regard to Article 1 concerning the abolition of Type III prisons, which have never worked, Golden Dawn is in favour of abolition. Those identified as dangerous criminals with the heaviest penalties provided for in the Criminal Code, if they are concentrated in a single penitentiary, isolated from the outside world, there is never a chance that they will be conceived and reinstated in our society. As far as Articles 2 and 5 are concerned, I would like to say that it is also in the right direction. The minor criminal should not be brought to prison, but the state through its organs should take care that the criminal will is not consolidated within them. However, the fact that the age limit is increased from thirteen to fifteen years for the criminal charge is wrong. There is a risk that juveniles, 15-year-olds, will act unlawfully for themselves and become underhand by adult criminals. The current dismissal article also has positive elements, but it also has two serious 'but'. The first 'but' is that the required time limit for the award of the sentence for disabled persons is very low. How is it possible with this disability rate that a citizen cannot receive a disability pension while a prisoner can be made redundant? What if one with a disability of 50% committed a serious criminal offence? So, Minister, with 50% disability he can commit a crime, but because he has 50% disability he cannot carry out his sentence? The second 'but' is that they are fired by the prisons of immigrants who have committed crime and then let them move freely. Greece has been convicted by the European Court of Human Rights of prison conditions, but this Court did not decide to open Greek prisons and to diffuse prisoners outside. But we are told that the appropriate infrastructure does not exist for human detention conditions. If the government does not take immediate steps to improve infrastructure in one year from now on, perhaps less, we will have to pass a new bill on a new decongestion of prisons. As far as the hoodman is concerned, we are in favour of maintaining this, because we do not put on the garments or the one who wears it, so that it does not cool, but the one who commits a hooded crime, because the use of the hood is made both for the purpose of committing the crime and for pre-vocative reasons. We, as Golden Dawn, are the victims of hoodlers. We have two dead brothers and a seriously injured one, like many other attacks on us by infant hoodmen. Because the man who wears the hood and commits himself, except for a criminal, is also a man who is afraid to show his face. With regard to penitentiary officials, the procrastination and deliberate indifference of post-government governments for special legislative protection has contributed to making it common to target prisoners with criminal evidence, both inside and outside prisons. Tragmatic effect of all this is either the murderous attacks on the employees or their serious injury with all the physical and psychological post-traumatic consequences and the temporary or permanent inability to work. It is essential to take measures that improve the penitentiary system, both in the area of post-training and in the area of self-protection, to prevent further the creation of dangerous working conditions in prisons. It is also necessary to recruit additional staff, but also qualified staff, such as sociologists, doctors, psychologists and social workers. In any case, we believe that the bill is moving in the right direction, but we also have serious objections, as I have already said, and other speakers of the Golden Dawn. At some point, we hope that Greece will also become a modern state, like the other European states, and that we will stop being a 'noon' state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr George Stylos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking this opportunity, from the debate on this bill, first of all, to address a local issue, an issue concerning Arta and Epirus and some other regions in Greece, and on the basis of how the government is dealing with this particular issue, I shall then proceed to the debate on my position on this draft law. Two and a half months ago, at the beginning of February, the region of Epirus, Arta, was struck by a natural disaster, by floods. In those days all governmental stadiums were felt. The Prime Minister himself visited the Coordination Centre, here in Athens. There's been statements. Ministers came to Arta, made statements on the spot. Meetings were held in the Arta Regional Unit, very many promises were made. However, two and a half months later, they have not gone far enough and it is indicative of how the government understands how the administration, the response to emergencies and how it perceives the problems that exist, which are experienced by Greek citizens and, above all, by the Artinians, my fellow citizens. The region of Epirus immediately characterised the county as an emergency and sent the relevant request to the Ministry. I think Mr Voutsis is the Minister responsible for this matter. But two and a half months later, the prefecture has not been classified as flooding and the mountainous areas of Arta Prefecture have not been classified as landed. As a result, neither the first small aid of EUR 580 that our fellow citizens are entitled to from this disaster has been granted and, of course, neither has there been any response to the damage to housing nor, of course, to public works and public infrastructure. Repeatedly, I've asked over five questions. In a timely question to the House, I raised the matter. However, there has been no response from the central government, no response. To your information and to the House too, I would like to say that, in cooperation with the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Spyraki, the matter has also been raised in the European Commission in the Commission. The Commissioner's answer was that they are available to activate the European Commission's Solidarity Fund, provided that this request is made by the Greek Government within 12 weeks. We're already in the tenth week. There are two weeks left and we are waiting to see whether the issue will be raised in Europe where it seems - and it is clear - that the Community intends to respond and to give assistance to our country. Not much more since we say there's no money in our country. However, we are not hitting that door at all, but neither are we from our Greek fund, from public investment. Nevertheless, we in our priorities are putting and discussing today the draft law on "Reforms of criminal law, abolishing detention stores and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, according to the explanatory statement, seeks to dismantle prisons and satisfy the government's planning statements. We all remember the Minister's expression of dialogue with the hoodiers. Does this bill achieve the purpose of the reform? In my personal opinion, no, and I will prove why. It's not real reform. It's fragmentary and it doesn't solve the problem. There's no mention or thought of how you view the operation of Type I or Type II prisons. Aren't you the prisoners involved in this? Are you satisfied with the conditions there? The draft law did not result from extensive dialogue and was not given enough consultation. No specific figures have been given for the current situation in prisons. No figures have been given as to how many will be found free. There are no statistics on developments in the time of these figures in our country and no comparison has been made with other European countries. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the competent prosecutors and judges with their official announcement disagree and reveal that their position has not been requested and has not been discussed by the relevant Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions raised are many: Why does the government in the third month of its term have to legislate on this draft law? Why did the debate have to take place on the Great Week and the next week while Easter holidays are? What's the problem? Is it high on the agenda of issues asking for a solution from the Ministry of Justice? Does it serve public dialogue? Is it a field of mutual understanding of the parties and thus contributes to consensus and to the formation of a mild political climate? Is this a matter of Greek society and Greek citizens? The answer is simple, in my opinion, and it is clear: the service of a specific reservoir. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 1 abolishes Type III prisons. Greece will be the only European country to have maximum security prisons. The government under this provision endangers the life and physical integrity of detainees, the life and physical integrity of penitentiary staff and puts the great question of how our European partners will deal with the rules of public security. All special ways of creating penalties with additional rigour are being abolished, and you know that existing legislation is fully in line with all European and international rules and with all the case-law authorities. You do not exclude terrorists from favorable regulations, either the rapists or the paedophiles or the accused of crimes with a particular risk. It is well known that in the past many convicted organized their criminal activity from their homes. How do you protect society from such a development? The bill, ladies and gentlemen, is horizontal, because if anyone does his sentence in any way, it can come out of prison without the approval of a court board. No distinction shall be made as to the weight of the penalty imposed. The Court of Human Rights in a decision said that prisons are not suitable for a crippled crippled crippled crippled, but under no circumstances did it say that they had to leave prison. Change prisons, form better human conditions. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I close my position with only one mention. This bill will cause very serious damage to the tourism sector, because a climate of insecurity will be created in society regarding the protection of visitors in our country. And finally, what example do we give our children to the future of our country? Make an occupation, blackmail. You can be justified. Become a popular fighter, you can commit crimes. You're getting out of jail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Styli. Mrs Karasarlidou Euphoria has the floor and Mrs Pleasantis is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u181	Good evening. Colleagues, I will start by saying that prison for most of us is an unknown experience. Let's think about that a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u182	Madam President, this House is not legally working, because there is no government representative here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u183	We'll stop until the Minister gets here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u184	I didn't just say that, Madam President. I also think that colleagues from the other groups agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u185	Sure. But I didn't say anything. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. The Minister's here in the Chamber. We're on. Mrs. Karasardou, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u186	The objective of the penitentiary system today, unfortunately, is not social reintegration, but the exclusion of as many offenders as possible. This has resulted in a continuous increase in the number of prisoners in recent decades. In our country prisoners have doubled over the last decade. And here I wonder what we know about prisons and prisoners personally. Perhaps some of us have visited prisoners or even have an image of the size of the impoverishment of detention centres. We note that in recent years the concept of humanity at all levels has constantly declined and gained an increasingly darker face. This is particularly evident in Greek prisons, which are impoverished or still angering both prisoners and their prisoners. It is a sad reality, for which we are all accomplices with our silence. Article 6 of the bill we are debating today, for which almost all the relevant bodies are in favour, I believe that it has a human character. It proposes a series of relief measures, human measures for prisoners. The leniency measures for the heavy patients enable the penalty to be drawn up in conditions adapted to the particular needs of these people, so that children, the elderly, the drug addicts, the severe disabled not to be exterminated in prison and not to be killed many times. Here, I would like to remind you that from 2011 until today, we have 13 convictions by the European Court of Justice for inhuman or degrading treatment. In addition, there are another hundred and ninety cases pending against us. Also, the European Guardian Observatory has often pointed out the great contrast between the reality of the Greek detention shops and the rhetoric in favour of a utensilist and penitentiary system. The same conclusions are drawn by the European Commission against the tortures of the Council of Europe, which, by a public statement, has expressed its indignation towards our country because it does not comply with the recommendations for improving conditions. Fellow Members, the abolition of Type III prisons is an important step against the model of extremist, vengeful logic, that is, the model of absolute extermination. These prisons create and maintain two prisoners' speeds, they are unconstitutional and, in fact, they are not aimed at security. Real security is to change the inhuman and degrading conditions of detention that exist today, as it is a question of rendering justice and democracy with equality and solidarity for all. Measures to minimise the incarceration of minors, to strengthen education and assistance measures offer the possibility of gradually avoiding the vicious cycle of crime. The favourable measures for the dismissal of prisoners will also contribute to the immediate decongestion of prisons. The current excessive crowding conditions in detention centres affect staff performance, prison security, criminal relapse of detainees, reintegration, contact with the outside world, detention conditions, nutrition, ventilation, heating and medical care. Humanity requires that we should not be extradited, not tormenting the people who are imprisoned. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, In our view, this is the question that should concern us and urge us to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Karasarlidou. Mrs Diotis has the floor and Mrs Christophilopoulou must be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a joint finding that the laws echo certain social and class formations, and that is why the phenomenon is being observed - at least - major violations were observed, really anti-social, such as the evasion of great wealth, scandals or abuses of public money, the giftous provisions in favour of companies and saying, often find the way to acquittal or circumventing or not to be touched at all by the law. Also, when criminals and economics dominates, this crime is never generalised. It's always someone "the main thing" or some "the main problem". When criminals are criminalised, crime is always generalised, as is the case with immigrants, drug addicts, and it goes on to say. I say this because there have been many earlier in the Poverty Room. I am also saying this, in order to support an argument which is not mine, but those who think we have dealt with a great deal with these things and say that whoever has studied crime in Greece, based on all criminal approaches and available data, will be led to the unviable conclusion that crime comes almost exclusively from the lower classes. In short, on the one hand it is the criminalisation of poverty and, on the other, the construction of the inner enemy. I think that the issue of the 'Court of Cousins' is also part of this. The status story, along with the media, has shown an entire structure, to convince public opinion and viewer who the enemy of society is. In short, and as we have seen for a long time, in recent years, this enemy has been built by the name of 'gulls', for good reasons, as I think. The fear of people for any kind of insecurity, uncertainty or explosive social situation has turned very much into this category, so that no one wonders what it really means to this society. Is there someone in charge of all this? Is there any policy that creates such explosive social situations? These questions must be answered. The "Court" was also in the arsenal of a legislation, which was directed directly against social protest and youthful radicalism, and there it was depleted with dozens of pressed cases, with no evidence, challenging in a pile of protests with the imposing category of hood, handkerchief and generally the covered features. The law, if anyone wants to deal with any illegal acts, does not need "collages" to do so. He's got other tools, too much. The "Courager" was a pretext for suppressing demonstrations and protests which opposed the regime. It is no accident - because I have heard the Golden Dawn MP earlier - that no one has ever been brought in by dozens of Golden Dawn protests, with many available videos, where her members wear helmets and not only are not arrested, but in many cases they have been discussing with the police. So I think the conclusions are getting out of hand. Also, various acts in our criminal law are punished by specific penalties and even very heavy for specific offences. However, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of all the efforts made by the political system of all these years, I think that society, as it has shown in recent elections, was not convinced that its enemy is the so-called "cursor" but has turned the gaze elsewhere. I say this because the accusation called the "hoodmen" has been used by rabies against SYRIZA since 2008, but also as an argument in this debate of the last two days. It was also used to give credit to a right -wing government. She thought so, but fortunately she was disproved. We as SYRIZA have always been against this law. And we have to keep this commitment, because we are consistent people and we have taken the lead with a specific programme but also specific opinions on these issues. We heard before Mr. Gioka's position from the KKE, where he consistently supported the party's view, as he had done in 2009, when the "cooper". Well, we weren't the only ones, then. And the PASOK was then against this law. I read the statement by Mr Kastanidis on 13-11-2009, visiting the Larissa Bar Association, which said that 'the law and provisions concerning the hood will be abolished at the first legislative initiative'. I also read from the Minutes of Parliament, on 24-9-2009, when two speeches were voted on by the 'Court'. The first was an excerpt from the speech by Evangelos Venizelos, who, after indeed referring to terrorism, to the hoodmen, etc., said at some point, talking about the hoodmen, that "we want to suppress this phenomenon, but we do not want to create the illusory impression that if we establish disproportionate circumstances and anticipate extreme penalties, this will happen. In other words, the hoodman will be arrested, the centre that coordinates with written messages on mobile phones their activities will be identified, that property and public order will be protected." That's not accurate. Mr Venizelos continues to say: 'I repeat that there are no criminal provisions missing. It is not possible to dissolve a concentration at which everyone appears to be hooded because they want to protest. This is a vigilance of criminal, political and police.’ Also, the rapporteur at the time of PASOK, Mr Jackri, had said in her report - and I read from the Minutes - as far as the capital of the "cooper" is concerned: "I will not list the provisions of the law again. I would just like to point out to you the incorrect orientation of the legislation being passed, whose only aim is to cover the dismantling of the police in our country with the sole responsibility of the current government - the New Democracy Government that was then legislating - 'and to attempt a pointless demonstration of power on the part of the state'. But you forget the offences of inviting and serious physical harm. The protected legal good is not the hood, it is the physical integrity and the legal property that the Greek legislator wanted to protect when introducing the disputed offences. Continued by the PASOK rapporteur, he said: "Trust me, someone will not eat less wood if the one who beats him does not wear a hood". With this I claim - because I have not heard the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman say something - that anyone who wants to show consistency of words and actions may do so today. I therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to be serious and to vote for the abolition of this ridiculous and incomprehensible law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Phoebe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u190	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u191	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u192	I will give you a legal correction, Madam President. It concerns the cases of the disabled. In the event of life imprisonment, if the prisoner is in prison for life, due to a crime which does not involve a humane act, then the minimum level after which his detention can be taken into custody at home is five years and not ten, as in all other cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. I have heard my dear colleague Mr Prodi a moment ago referring to the people who, at the time in some form, were fighting the regime, and I would like to ask her, as I would like to ask the Ministers, what status that was. The five-year-old Karamanlis, which you discharged through the discharge from the examination period? What exactly status was it? President Prokopi Pavlopoulou, whom you voted for and who was then Minister and who voted for the law of the hood? Let's see what political relatives there are. I leave the ANELs with whom you co-operate. Everything's become an archematism after all. So I would like to ask what status you are talking about. I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have been elected by this regime. Tell us if you want and how to overthrow it. Because in democracy regimes are changing not just by election, but by constitutional revisions, to see you bring some kind of initiative, because all I saw is a symbolism. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the vote today on the articles of this bill, for which there was the occupation in the EPC Declaration, which ended today. Is it accidental that we combine exactly the day of the Republican release with the day of the bill? Minister, Mr. Paradisepoulou, with all due respect for your position and your face, I would like to ask you something. You told us a few days ago - I am referring to a statement you made - that the police have their own operational rules. The operational rules of the police were those with which for nineteen days the Republican Republic was closed, with huge damage and was released today when we voted on this bill? Lucky? I don't think so, Minister. I do not think so, because, unfortunately, the country is in many things once and for all on an end - back to the government and the ruling parties to decide who will go and who will leave it. Of course, on the one hand, we have Mr Kammenos threatening Berlin and Brussels by exporting jihadists and, on the other, we have the relevant Deputy Minister, Mr Voutsi, Minister, to say - and yesterday indeed - that she cannot know where immigrants are going and that she is only responsible for how many people are coming in. Where are they going, he says? They're gone! Well, when they are melted, when they disappear, when we send them to Berlin, when we take them to Brussels! Mercy! Let us at least decide on immigration policy, have a line as a country. Once again, I would ask either you here, representing the government, or the Prime Minister at some point tell us what his mandate to Mr Varoufakis was. When Mr Varoufakis said a few days ago in Easter Catholics he would pay the IMF instalments or today when Mr Varoufakis through the HUFFINGTON POST said no more or less that we would not pay the instalments? Who are you playing with? Because you don't have a mandate to take the country out of the euro area. You have a mandate to change the regime. And in this, as Mr Papadimoulis says, Vice-President of the European Parliament and your partner, the only allies you have - I am not saying them, Mr Papadimoulis says so - are the European socialists. They are, Mr. Voutsi, your allies in wrestling. But what do you want to do? You want, as Mr Papadopoulos quite rightly said, to take the country to the rocks and break it. Say it, though. Do you have a second plan or don't you have one? The parentheses are closed. So we are living in this at the moment of public security, the occupation of the buildings that we release whenever it is in the interest of the government. For'come on, but!', which Mr Flumuraris also says. "Come on, it's all going to happen. After the red eggs they will be gone." They left the day the bill was passed. Say again: Random? Oh, no. I now come to comment on some of the provisions of the bill. I think that Mrs Gennamas has said this in passing, but I too have my opinion to remind you that the provisions on the hood were not adopted. I would also like to say to you - I think Mrs Gennimata told you and to the committee, Minister - that there was a whole plan to change the Penitentiary and Criminal Code that you received. And don't do it now. But let's do it sometime. However, all you bring after a parliamentary amendment is a rough change in the hood provision. That's funny. It is also funny that Mr Baltas suddenly announced yesterday that he was abolishing the evaluation of teachers. What's he replacing her with? No way! That's the handshake of the worst kind. I come to the provision at issue, which concerns, among other things, the release of Savvas Xiros. I, too, agree with many colleagues who raised the matter that, of course, the country does not have the best penitentiary system in relation to the conditions and not so much at institutional level. A lot of people have said that, too. It is not so institutional issue. It's the detention conditions. So we have not had the best conditions and we have multiplely been condemned by the Court of Strasbourg for inhumane and degrading treatment of detainees. How do we deal with this with this bill? Without criteria and regardless of gravity, all detainees with some kind of disability or some kind of health problem. Is the strengthening of the rights of detainees and the improvement of the conditions of detention carried out by this more general exodus? There is also something else: it has been heard in the committee and here too, 'our people and others'. Who are our 'ours' and the 'others'? Do the victims of violence and terrorism have party labels? Do they have colors, ladies and gentlemen? We, PASOK, at some point we fought to stop the Greeks talking about traitors and patriots, because some grandparents who had once fought in the Civil War and in the Resistance and some who had not even fought in the Civil War - had fought, Mr. Voutsi, only in the Resistance - until the 1980s were traitors. This vocabulary you and the Independent Greeks brought it back again talking about traitors in here. I ask you: are there dead theirs and ours? I honor the memory of all the dead who are victims of violence and terrorism indiscriminately, because a great deal has been said here. Or does our sensitivity to disability, to human rights, finally to human suffering from the loss of a person have a party or a colour? Hey, no! He doesn't. Finally, the amendment - this big issue - which concerns strengthening the penalty for bullying, we shall vote on it. But I ask you more widely as a government: is this a major issue we have on bullying? We had a victim. We had Vangelis Yakoumakis the victim of bullying. Ladies and gentlemen, because we have also talked about this in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, I really want to raise awareness of all aspects, regardless of ideological identity. Bullying's got to do with action. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, your tolerance. I told Mr Kourakis and Mr Baltas in the Committee on Educational Affairs that the action plan that was in existence and started at the beginning with some problems and some enthusiasm and then left against the bullying - which concerns actions within schools, for teachers and parents - is what, along with any institutional amendment - we will vote on it again - can, together with political and social action, address the problem. Because, Minister for Justice, you know very well how many - over five - are the provisions of the Criminal Code, which can be applied in the case of bullying. I also want your experience to tell me - and it is not about you, nor about the government, but about what provision of criminal law we have ever touched and sent someone who has bullying to justice? Rarely until never. So we need to think here. And despite our positive vote - I say it again - in cooperation with the other ministries and otherwise to deal with these phenomena. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we think that dealing with at least us in this bill was a criticism of an anti-population with substance, because, as you have already heard from us, some provisions will be voted in favour of them, but we cannot, at first, vote for general devotion and forging to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mr Theodorakis has asked for the floor. I would, however, ask you, Mr Theodorakis, because I have already announced Mr Stephos Ioannis to speak immediately afterwards. Mr. Stephoe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not avoid temptation to comment on the fact that two days I have heard from many speakers that the government is not dealing with negotiation, but is legislating. Really, two and a half months' government should not legislate? Are we also accused of this? Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to vote for another bill that demonstrates the government's will to turn what was seen as a manifest reality or rather, of what the austerity and deprivation governments had imposed as a given repression in a bleeding society. After the resolution on the humanitarian crisis and on the one hand on the one hand on the one hand - which most of you voted on - at a time when the government is trying to bring the country back to dignity for its people, an effort that is often undermined both internally and externally by neoliberal statements, we are coming to do our intention, as we proclaimed in electoral terms, to create a modern and human penitentiary system. Our country, after repeated convictions of violating the European Convention on Human Rights and continuing circumvention of the constitutional framework for the inviolability and non-negotiable human value, as we all accept it, owes, in essence, but also symbolically, as Mrs Christophilopoulou said, a different concept of justice as the core of our democracy. The New Democracy through its rapporteur, but also most of its speakers, described the bill as a product of negotiation with the terrorists. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the replacement of the detention of minors, except in extreme cases, through educational and reform measures, as it requires every reasonable treatment of a child, because children are, and the attempt to approach and 'correction' - in introductory terms - of their sensitive personalities and psychiatry, by not confronting them as common criminals, is a conversation with terrorists or is communication with the real problem? Are the motives for treatment and disarmament instead of incarcerating the drug addicts, who are growing rapidly, with a quarter of prisoners being drug users, negotiating with the terrorists for the New Democracy? He obviously forgot the result of the last elections when he used the same extreme right rhetoric. The bill also provides for conditional dismissal - a legal arrangement - or domestic restrictions on detainees such as disabled, heavy patients and over-aged people has just been distributed. The health and hospital treatment conditions in prisons make their lives dangerous, and their health status is often such that it does not allow them to be hospitalized. Responding to this aspect of the humanitarian crisis is also an obligation of a social state which decides to see behind bars and stop avenges every day, helpless prisoners. I doubtless believe the government and I hope that in the near future it will also promote the modernisation of the prison healthcare system so that we do not have facts of self-determination and suicide and that the state can respond to its obligation to medical assistance to the suffering prisoners. I would also like to address the issue of the abolition of Type III prisons and the decongestion of penitentiary institutions. With regard to the first issue, the detention of prisoners in the highest security prisons has been noted by authoritarian scientists that not only does they increase their security, but leads to a reduction in the rights of those detainees, not to annihilate them, to retreat new offences and to the production of organised violence within prisons. What's this bill doing? It abolishes Type III prisons. It, however, shields the security of existing institutions by providing for strict penalties for crimes or offences committed by deceited prisoners in detention stores, but also provides for the protection of both prisoners and penitentiary officers. On the issue of decongestion, which is an extraordinary measure, we all know that it has been implemented without much results in the past. However, the situation in prisons from all wards has been said to be explosive. So, in our view, it is necessary at the moment. With this provision, however, after thirteen sentences of Greece since 2011 by the HSHR for the terrible situation with the overpopulation of detainees in detention stores, we are really aiming at the redemption of people who are being humiliated in unprecedented ways in cells - soul warehouses. The living of detainees in the institutions and the working conditions of officials must be decent, human and contribute to the overall quality upgrade of the penitentiary system. In conclusion, it would be a omission - Mrs Christophilopoulou pointed out it too - if I did not point out the amendment of Article 312 of the Criminal Code. As you know, in recent years we have lived in Yannina, my homeland, the unprecedented unpleasant and sad event of a new man being chased under strange circumstances. She woke up - if she wakes up! - in a tough and steep way an entire society and saw a problem that existed, but no one touched it. The criminalisation of such acts is being widened and at older ages for cases similar to those in Ioannina. Ladies and gentlemen, I and the majority Members of the House will vote in favour of the bill, because we believe that the ideological conscious repression and the memorial intimidation that has been implemented in the area of the penitentiary system in previous years is inconsistent with the principles of equality, law and human rights. Because we believe that poverty and impoverishment do not fit into any aspect of human life. Finally, because we believe that the consolidation of security and the smooth return of society requires a break with the culture of repression and hypocritical compliance. Alas, if in a democratic society that promotes dignity, solidarity and acceptance of diversity, we behave with reasonable and methods of vengeance, extermination and deception to the inmates, diligently forgetting that we are all human beings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Stephen John. The President of Parliament has the floor in Potami, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, and immediately thereafter Mr Diamandopoulos is prepared. Mr. Theodorakis, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to speak for eight minutes. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u198	I think I'm gonna need a little more, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u199	Do you want me to give you 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Madam President. I'm not hiding you, Minister, that when it was known that you were going to take over the Justice Department, I got better. As you may know, ladies and gentlemen, Potami doesn't believe in party employees. On the contrary, it argues that it is necessary in areas such as justice, education, export, to put persons outside the party mechanisms. The country's problems are too much, they are too great and they need praiseworthy people who don't wear blindfolds. So I said a strong 'all?' when I heard the name of the Minister of Justice. That is why in my first speech here in the government's programme statements I said that we are waiting to support a reform of justice, a reform of prisons. The denial has come quickly, Minister, and I have to tell you why. Instead of treating you as the Minister of Change, as the Minister who knows the needs of a wounded space, as the Minister of Modernisation, as the Minister of Modernisation of the penitentiary system and the speedy administration of justice, you are, unfortunately, working and acting as a representative of the components. Your pretext, Minister, that you are not a party official, you automatically turned it into a major disadvantage. Fearing they may not fight you, fearing that you are not good enough, you have done the gifts of every strain and every group. You have had a lot to offer to justice and to prisons, Minister, and you have taken it all away to deal with unimportant and non-critical. Because obviously - I don't find any other explanation - someone's pulling you off the sleeve. And to tell you a few things you should do in prison. You should strengthen the institution of rural prisons. That's why prisoners are begging if you've spoken to prisoners these weeks you're Minister. What breaks people in prison is the time running, without being able to do anything useful for them or for someone else. So, for women, rural prisons for young people. Nearly all of Europe, rural prisons are changing to modern penitentiary centres. This is where they operate. Cassavedeia has also asked to operate as a healing rural rehab centre for young prisoners, for 18, twenty, twenty-five years old. No answer. Who cares? Social penalties. You know exactly what I'm saying, ladies and gentlemen. Our country is the place with the smallest social offer of the prisoners. In particular, for young offenders, we should find a solution, instead of being imprisoned, to be able to serve in a municipality, in an institution, in the environment, in order to deal with dignity when seeking a second chance. This is a huge issue and there is no provision in this law either. Prison schools, so they can strengthen. I met teachers at the court who discovered their students' skills. Instead of having them in the yards and stabbing them, they had them in class. In fact, I remember that a prisoner won the competition at the Mathematical Society, which had become a front page. Foreign prisoners learned - in fact - in fact Greek, to be able to escape the ghettos, which are tanks for their local mafias. Because we must say, ladies and gentlemen, that the prisoners are not all the same. You'll find people who were in prison from an accident, from a juvenile mistake, from a passion, from a bad moment. You will also find criminals, however, unrepentant, people with black souls who are still a danger to our society today. As you will find - and I will say - prisoners with serious crimes on their back, but who have understood their mistakes and are not in mobs and gangs. There are proud people in prison who have a reason to honor, even though I told you they may have done murders. We must give them a second chance. We must give them a second chance because society is being transferred to prison and prison in society. And a penitentiary system must do, it must separate people not only from the sentence, but also from the personality. The prisoners need training programmes in technical terms, to be released and to hold an art, certified, licensed, with teachers, if possible other prisoners, as they do abroad, who will have strong motives to choose the role of the professor. The organization and content are given to the IEKs, the TEIs. So reintegration programs of the prisoners are what we are interested in. And instead of thinking and planning, you're making a tsatre - a law that levels it all, horizontal settings, repeating the mistakes of the past. There is no country - and you know it well, Professor - without disciplinary proceedings. They can't be unrepentant to the repentants. It can't be the accident along with the repetitive crime. Is it easy? Of course not. But this is where I want you. And Domokos if he's not right in prison, make another one. And if Korydallo's prison hospital is a shame - which is - building another. I should, of course, like to point out here that in the years of waste, when money has been made from everywhere - and from the European Union - no one has taken serious care - of the old parties in power - of building up infrastructure and a proper, human penitentiary system. Because penitentiary wants money, modern buildings, infrastructure, employees. But Drama, Minister, is ready and not working. There's a thousand missing. Three rays in Chania are closed, two rays in Nigrita. A rehab center has been held in Halkidiki and never worked, rustling. Why don't you give all this priority? Why did you find the easy solution, the old one, to take out the old ones so the young can come tomorrow? Fifteen such decongestion laws have had over the last thirty years since 1982. And to tell you what happened though you obviously know it, you will have been informed: over 50% of those who go out with beneficial provisions return to prison soon. Over 50%! I don't know what your calculations are, but our people say that with the arrangements you're doing, they'll come out of about the two thousand prisoners, a thousand percent, a thousand foreigners and the rest of the natives. Is there any provision for their new life, some structure, some support? No, they'll be back in jail. So you are abolishing the prison of the highest security. I want to make a stand here, because I disagree with the regulations of the New Democracy, but also with yours. It was wrong to predict that some of the inquiries will be brought to the top security prison. It's more than wrong. It's unfair. The prisoner’s behaviour, his conduct is what is counting, not the punishment or the offence. But isn't the country going to have a disciplinary prison? Have you thought that well? Have you discussed this with the prison organizations, with the employees, or do you think that prisons are only from unfortunate 'Robins of the forests'? Those who impose the rules on prison, those who have money, gangs, blackmailers and threaten, those who terrorise prisoners and employees, will have no effect, no punishment? We have the highest proportion of incarcerated minors in Europe, and what are you doing? You're sending minors north to adults, or you're sending them to the worst nightmare. We ask you to get back the abolition of juvenile prisons and motivate minors to get out quickly with prisons and get out with supplies in society, do structures for the smaller offences of minors, but not wolves and lambs together. The shame of the Greek prisons is not hidden through the smack in the prisons of minors. And the minors, ladies and gentlemen, will be the first victims of the counter-reformation promoted by your Government. You know that the elementary decent living inside the prison is estimated at EUR 2,000 per month for each prisoner. It is said by the organisations involved in prisoners, not by us. They're getting divorced in prisons and around them. And those who can't afford it - because not everyone can - because prisons have many poor devils - there are other ways. They are the ones called "taxi" in prisons. They thus call the poorest and weakest prisoners who are forced to make the drug dealers of the most powerful, with the tolerance of many times. Is that why you're on the stock exchange, Minister? This peculiar class stratification, how will it break? You who sees class injustices everywhere, in prisons, don't you see them? So separate the prisoners - this will be your service - and forcefully promote the bracelets. Mr Athanasios started it, but it wasn't implemented. It's not every time a prisoner tricks the employees and the judges, gets empty and doesn't come back, pays for all the rest of the prisoners who patiently wait to get their permission, go see their child, their family. So put the bracelets and strengthen the institution of the licence. That would be progressive today. But you, apparently, are not interested in any of this. You don't care about the poor prison devils, Minister. You're interested in the rich, the famous. And you're providing service to them. And it is right that the speaker of the Communist Party - I heard him speak and point it out to you - - that you are legislating primarily for the rich. How will you - I ask you directly and I expect an answer - to prevent the release of a VIP prisoner, who will bring two papers tomorrow to testify to an incurable and difficultly detectable disease? But that's not what you're interested in. Public relations are and it's sad. And it seems that it is not your priority to do something with the chaotic Greek justice. There's a new Criminal Code in drawers and you know it. Why don't you take him out? Isn't that a priority? There's a Code of Criminal Procedure. Because this is the big bet: Elect and bring close to European standards and our own sentences, stop Greece from being the country with the highest number of isovitics depending on its population. Without changing the institutional framework and simply bringing out thousands of prisoners on horizontal criteria, you are simply transferring the problem to the next year. In fact, the judges, seeing their sentences disappear from the legislature, will put more and more penalties. It's a vicious circle that needs to be broken and you don't dare break it. In particular, of course, for the new Criminal Code - you will know - you can also consult the Prosecutor, Vassilis Markis, who is also in charge of the Justice Sector in Potami and the creator of many of the new Criminal Code, following, of course, the work done by Ioannis Manoledakis, this great teacher of legal science. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which is ready, introduces new institutions: The institution of conciliation, not all cases are enough to reach the audience, to alleviate the bottles. In order to make these areas, of course, you need to collide with lawyers, with judges, with those who have been dressed up, that is, in this spooky setting. We therefore invite you to alleviate with the other lawyers, with the other judges looking forward and going against the small syndicate groups that react to the modernisation of justice and prisons. Of course, there is evaluation, computerization, computerization, speeding up the administration of justice, controlling judicial authority and limiting corruption. So instead of doing all of this or some of it, Mr Paradoxopoulos, raise your hands up, surrender and do what your other colleagues in the past have done and what many of your fellow ministers are doing today. You are putting on the wrong priorities, that is. The Minister of Education in this country - education has returned to the forefront - the first thing that came out to do was - we have said it - to abolish the schools standards because excellence is reciprocity and his first concern at universities was to send out the important Greeks who came to offer unfavorably to the administration of the university. As far as we are concerned, of course, 'unhappily' is a little suspicious in our time. If he had asked for 12%, we might have held him. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] So the government again delivers what we are learning today with the new provisions, the universities in the party armies, to relaunch the party parties in Mykonos, SYRIZA's youth camping in Gythio, with promises of a transaction with teachers and prerogatives that elect them. Everywhere the wrong priorities. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Watch out for a bit more. You'll like the other one more. "Aspirins" for the humanitarian crisis, what you are saying is a humanitarian crisis and not a minimum guaranteed income that we and that applies throughout Europe, for a simple reason: To have customers the poor, to keep them under your influence and not standing and decent. And then - take note, ladies and gentlemen, of the dates - it is important that, on the days when you decided to give the humanitarian crisis, you gave five hundred million for the weapons in secret. From what the previous government did, all you kept without any negotiation, without any discussion, was the weapons orders. And tomorrow you'll also give some weapons to the Russians to be happy - we've caught the implied one - and we heard Mr. Nicholudis say that the weapons never come on their own. They always go with at least 4%. The same as the immigrants who are melted in the morning and at night disappear. Don't consider it a racist joke because your Minister signs it. Immigrants are missing, of course, as they disappear, there is no reason for immigration policy, so that we do not get tired. Nevertheless - and to be serious - we are here to propose planned solutions. We have given you our proposals on ERT, 20 pages an article. We gave you 11 proposals on immigration. Your mercenaries in the press and social media today write that you do not need the Potamian proposals for immigration, because what we are saying is your own proposals. And why so long have you been so obscene? Why didn't you take these suggestions to see them? Why didn't you present them to the Greek people? We said it publicly and pro-electionally went to St. Panteleimon's Square and said our proposals on citizenship. Of course, for some of you all sounded strange. You've mixed the immigrants up with the refugees, too, but anyway. - Forgotten. We want you to do the right thing, so we are giving you proposals. I think, however, that you have the wrong priorities, and that is proof of that in the economy and in the negotiations. In eighty days the government did manage to make a round of the world, but without having seen any benefit for the country. What tough negotiation are we talking about? In addition to changing words, what else have you achieved tangible for society?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u201	Don't cut pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u202	Yes, you are pleased that instead of agreeing to have a new funding, to breathe the market, to breathe the economy, to resurrect the people of work, to open the drawers of the funds and agencies, and to put your hands on the available ones. You are pleased to strangle the real economy, leading businesses to closure and workers in unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u203	Not us, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u204	You are proud that you have guaranteed your self-evidentity, namely that you have paid salaries and pensions. But if the country goes bankrupt, if this game is played with bankruptcy - either within the euro that some people think is good - the value of wages and pensions will be depleted within a few weeks. So what protection are we talking about? You declare optimistic, of course, with negotiation and at the same time you talk about internal and external enemies, such as those who built the regimes of national wisdom and fought the Left. We call on you to stop the flirting with the horrors and do what the Greek people have voted for you. An honest agreement, an honest compromise, which Mr Tsipras also says, to keep the country in the eurozone upright and to put an end to austerity. This is the only order you have received, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANELs. So stop playing dangerous games that can lead to an accident and a national tragedy. Reorder your priorities. Listen to the voice of reason, the voice of society, and not the screams of your friends alone. Go, go, go, go, go, go! Get away from your wrong insurers. Give battle for the possible and leave the excuses that you're chasing the impossible. Go after the troubles. The problems have one thing to do: they never leave themselves, neither justice, nor prisons, nor the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. Mr Diamantopoulou has the floor and Mr Sevastakis must be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I intend to put myself in three amendments. And perhaps it would be good first to place myself on this amendment that we have tabled to stop criminalising those who are fighting for a different policy on tolls. I don't know if I'm embarrassed - if I start from there - the River and its President. But I won't do that. [[Noise from the Wing of the Parliamentary Group The River]] I would like to begin by reminding you that if the President of the River and his parliamentary group have understood this, this bill has come to deal first of all with crowding, this atrocious situation, in prisons. It did not aspire to be the completely reformist code, the penitentiary or the criminal. We have a glorious field and a lot of time. We will see them all in discussion and in collaboration with the institutions. I would like to point out one thing: he asked the Minister, when he knows very well that he is a man who has dealt in particular with this issue, prisons, but has been addressed through the Minister and the SYRIZA party, which is the body of this government, if he went to discuss with the prisoners. What do you think? Our comrades and comrades are years in prisons now, offering voluntary work to deal with all these problems and not to get a wage from a television show that deals superficially with these issues. That's why you're addressing each other. Ask your party if there is even one or one who has dealt very seriously with these issues. Because our group was there the previous time. I would also like to point out that it is sincerely sad to hear from a party president in here how he accepts a situation which at one point is clear - and is clear from the client state of New Democracy and PASOK and that the President of Patamius wanted to continue, wanted to be President of the previous Parliament - and to say that some were getting fake certificates. That is why the Minister said he would not be given by the prison doctor, but by a certified or whatever structure or structure he would give the documents. In here you admit that the state is incompetent and corrupted in full and that because you cannot deal with any corruption, you must take draconian measures. We are not talking now about the completely different approach and authorisation of the rapporteur for the river, because it was at quite different wavelengths. You see, this is a personal-centric motif, Potami, whose head profile is to be made. We also have amendments. He didn't tell us, what is his view of the "cooper"? Is it in line with what he said in January? He didn't tell us about receiving DNA. She didn't tell us why? Because right now, after the crisis of capitalism and the extreme financial situations we have experienced, the staff fell. At the moment, those who define themselves as the centre or who belong to the democratic arch do not need the face of liberalism and rights. They've got the reformer's staff. So because we are consistent, consistent, committed, we insist on these, we vote on them. However, something else arises after this debate, ladies and gentlemen. From the first moment the SYRIZA was to blame because, he says, he created a government with a far-right party. Not only the PASOK and the Potami, but also the circles that these two parties would like to play another role in the political scene and not of the parrot, insisted on this rhetoric. To tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what is the progressive today in a bill that really promotes these principles and values of Enlightenment? Who's the far right? Whose rhetoric are you dragging back from? Did Samara's far right and Baltaku's? I expect you to repack and ask for an apology, because progressiveity and liberalism are proved to be difficult, in this place now that it is being voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, because it is a debate on the articles, I want to defend three amendments. One is for tolls. Big party the contractors, the canals all this time. We knew they were taking the plays. We knew what was going on. We have tabled an amendment. In the face of this big problem, which the government has to deal with, the contracts which are single scaled out by the contractor, a movement has been developed. And it's a movement not jambads, but a movement that puts local demands. And in this case, addressing the law and order was the criminalization of the protest essentially. In agreement with the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Minister, you must accept that. It cannot be a crime of the Road Traffic Code. Secondly, this is the amendment we have tabled on DNA. Apparently, it's rationalized in terms of calling and imposing to give the suspect or the accused DNA. But there is a huge issue that we should be able to see in general. We can't hang up in our crock. There are stories around the world. There have been songs written by Bob Dylan about unfair charges and imprisonments when the system was seeing enemies to him. There are movies like "Ish the name of the father". And there were trials - let me not describe them as mischiefs, although the judiciary is not in the unavoidable - with revolts within which the state mechanisms and services that had the responsibility to "tie" the indictment fell into contradictions. And DNA came in, in objects that were not from the outset in what was collected from the crime scene, to "tie" assumptions. So we have to be very careful and look at it in depth. In the end, the famous and famous "Cousinian". The conservative system after 2008, when the society of the bottom-up, youth, people on the margins of the economy of capitalism, the generation of 751, had experienced the vibrations after a brutal murder of a Greek police officer, was in a state of insurrection. Then conservative reflexes led to a spasmist legislation - you can't say it a piece of legislation! - which brought against parties within Parliament. Of course we, the Communist Party, the PASOK, and a whole society, in particular the associations of lawyers, judges and many others. But we cannot see this simply horizontally, how it is legislated, how it is used. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, I've never abused my time, but at the moment it's important for me to finish. I witnessed a trial after an operation - "suck" of MATs after a protest on the day of Alexander Gregopoulou's murder. They collected the fifteen years, popy-paste, and they all were burdened with a "cooper". If I wasn't a witness there too, if there weren't pictures where the kids were just wearing a sweater or had a mask of surgery or wearing glasses, they might have ended up in juvenile prisons. The use of this measure has turned against the movement, what is defined by the other feature coverage and the hood. We really cannot treat it as a parliament and as a society to burden a crime with what? By using a hood? Gandon, let's put on the robbers and use the stairs and rope and many others. In the end for one who went and stole to put him in life. That's not reasonable, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that in this House right now - and because it has a trunk of SYRIZA and has a party, the Independent Greeks, who perceive the points of time, are not hiding behind their fingers, they too have their view of policy on central issues for a long time and do not go behind extreme right rhetoric - the three amendments, Mr Minister, have the government majority, but also the support of the Communist Party of Greece. In other words, we believe that they have the purpose of simply communicating with regard to their criticism of essential support at the moment in the House to pass and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Diamantopoulos. Mr Sevastakis Dimitris has the floor and then Mr Meikopoulou. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, Mrs Lyberakis, our own convention has paternalistic features. The very logic of the introduction and representation, that is, political mediation, have paternalistic features. Therefore, I would not recognise at the core of the bill something that is an extraordinary treaty. I would like to focus - and I will be brief - on an overall point that has been criticised in this part of the legislation, which has potential and can open up interesting regulatory prospects. One basic criticism was that somehow he reclassifies the sentence in retrospect, somehow creates a mitigation or creates another quality in the sentence and in the creation of the sentence. I think that within the predictions, well-being is good conduct, as has been said earlier, there are these distorting and a few alternative forms of penalty that exist (agricultural, etc.).), which change time, change gravity and thus reconstitute the penalty and its creation. This element is acquis, it is established in legal culture, it is established in the habits that legal culture has incorporated and therefore the bill on it is placed. Indeed, it sets different qualities in the judge's performance and in the time when the judge's decision is equivalent. So it does not do anything inconsistent, it is not inconsistent with the achievements. One could make a criticism of the rather disappointing contribution of the many speeches to the bill of being caught either in a catastrophe or in a description of an unjust dreadfulness that erupts the country. I think it's both confusing and normal and extremely repetitive lately. I will tell you a nucleus that I consider interesting about my left data, that the prisons of Samos, my place of origin, where my father and Garyfano Richos were arrested and imprisoned, and many left fighters, are currently housing the historical archive of Samos, a dense research centre, that is. About that, through such culture, I think that the issue of criminal management must also be seen and the issue of infringibility and the issue of ultimately cultural appreciations, with which modern society is looking at crime, infringement and correctness. I do not want to answer Mrs Christophilopoulou and the problem of refugee flows, and she has almost incriminated the SYRIZA, because I would have to remind her that the view of her President, Mr Venizelos, was that Syria should be bombed when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs and obviously that would have a repercussion on migration flows. So I do not want to fall into these political facilities. I would like to say a little bit about the possibilities - I have been covered by all the prerequisites - the legislation, the basis for which it lays down, which is an abstract basis, a basis for mitigation and division, and also a logic of a second chance. I would, however, also like to strengthen the opinion of Mr Giokas of the Communist Party and a part of Mr Theodorakis' speech on the notion of educational tensions, the organization, the integration of education into prison. I think it is a very important tool and art and knowledge and thought and criticism and the feeling of confirming the subject they bring to the raw, supposedly incarcerated. I think it is a great penitentiary tool, which can also create citizens who are resuscitating their act and also assisting in what I think the sentence and the guys with whom one is serving his sentence lead, that is to say, to reintegration. The penalty's not a rejection, I think. It must enter a culture, a unity of reintegration. I think, therefore, that a complex construction, a designed coup d'état involving education in prison, should the Ministry see it and compose it. I fear that in the way that dialogue takes place, with this archaicism, such as the position of the rapporteur for Officerial Opposition, an archaeological archaeological archaeology, which behind every regulation hides an ideal or an ideology or a wickedness, I think that this type of trial of intent is not productive politics. We've lived five years in intent trial. We're supposed to have maturity as a system to overcome it, and I think this bill that gives potential is a first-class opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor and Mrs Elisabeth Skoufa is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think most of them have been said about the provisions contained in this bill, so I think a reproduction on my part will only get tired rather than give more. But you will allow me to focus on some points, which I believe are also the essence of this draft law. First of all, we have to be clear. This bill is nothing complete. But, in my opinion, it is a bold first step towards what is next, so that we can carry out a major reform of the country's penitentiary system. It therefore comes, on the one hand, to face great and essential problems in the performance of justice and, on the other, to correct chronic injustices and violence, thereby building up a legal environment, in particular with the aim of restoring the rule of law and equality, with a progressive natural mark, away from any conservative concepts of the past. So this draft law promotes a new concept, the concept that introduces our ideological and worthwhile world. The bill therefore seeks, above all, to address the most serious problem in prisons, the problem of overpopulation, which has now taken an explosive proportion. Let us not repeat the information the Ministry of Justice has published in November 2014. The truth, as we know very well, is one, ladies and gentlemen. The detention shops can't handle more people. But what else does the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture point out in its occasional reports? Something very simple, but colleagues from PASOK and the New Democracy have passed it. The fact that overpopulation is also the most important factor in worsening detention conditions, the consequences of which we have to face. Just a few weeks ago, the European Court of Human Rights condemned Greece once again for inhuman and degrading treatment of Greek and foreign prisoners in prisons, claiming total compensation for moral harm and judicial costs to the plaintiffs of EUR 82,600. The total amount, as we know, for detention in Greece exceeds EUR 1 million. So criminalisation of poverty and drug addiction, but also the incarceration of severely helpless and disabled many times inmates, did not benefit from anything. On the contrary, he has committed constant crises with incalculable damage to Greece's image regarding human rights. But it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to improve the conditions of detention alone, but to reinstate the offender. On the contrary, therefore, the Civic Opposition to any such attempts is attacking the fear of lawlessness in general and indefinitely. It is precisely the same tactic that we saw in the Samara government, with the demonization in general and the vagueness of the other, with the marginalization of immigrants, offenders and drug addicts. It is a logic, ladies and gentlemen, and colleagues of Officerial Opposition, that is dangerous for coexistence, which is angering society itself and is not about law and justice, but about intolerance and fear. In this context, therefore, New Democracy is trying to link this bill to the release of Savvas Xiros. It is well known, however, that the creation of a climate of fear and demagogy by New Democracy colleagues has now been allocated to science. So, assisted by some media, in terms of risky and demagogic, they attempt once again to devour the horrific reflexes of Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, the law - you know it very well - does not know any exceptions. The application of the law shall not depend on sympathy or agreement or on the opposition or disagreement with the sentenced or the defendant. No matter what deceptiveness the criminal act is, a man - and that is what logic says - with a disability of over 80% cannot be in prison, but it cannot be a public risk to society itself. Finally, we hear you say at every opportunity that this bill has as its primary and sole objective the release of Savvas Xiros, as the provision for the release of the serious disabled is purely photographic. I think it's at least funny what's said, because the truth is exactly the opposite. The layout would be photographic if it specifically excluded Savva Dried. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by pointing out three points which, in my opinion, make up the very essence of this draft law. Firstly, at the hearing of bodies held on Wednesday, all the relevant bodies stood, with various natural shades, but with sufficient clarity, in favour of the bill, such as representatives of associations of judges, prosecutors, penitentiaries, rights organisations, the Citizens' and the Child's Counselors. And don't tell me in here that everyone was SYRIZA. They just know the prevailing situation. Second point. From 2011 until today, we have had thirteen convicts of Greece by the European Court of Justice of inhuman and degrading treatment for these conditions. Even worse - as the Minister himself pointed out - there are another hundred and ninety cases pending. The country for these thirteen convictions must pay almost 2 million money, which could obviously be attributed to improving conditions within prisons themselves. Third point. The far-right agenda of fear and insecurity will not prevent us from giving solutions where required. We have a whole other logic, which aims at values that are very important. It aims to support, reintegration, justice, realism, redress and not to exterminate human life. The release of people with severe disability, over-ages, children, etc. It has nothing to do with lawlessness. But it has to do with basic principles of humanism, principles of justice, friends and friends. The government therefore implements its election commitments. It is not defined by either "obstacles" or by screaming, which we are very accustomed to in the 20.00s. After all, this bill - as I said at the outset - is a first stage in the administration of justice in our country. It is the most appropriate way to tackle the problem of prison congestion, a result of old conservative practice. It restores the equality of all detainees against the law, instead of an inhuman and illegally justified exception to certain prisoners by the guarantees of the rule of law. In short, it renders - if you like - meaning in the very concept of criminal justice, which can be no more than an incentive for a normal reintegration into society from a sterile and vengeful behaviour of the state, which is simply confined to incarceration and devaluation of human value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u212	After the legal corrections that I have given you and announced, I have all the improvements that have been made in my mind, those which have been made following the amendments tabled by the SYRIZA Members. I had told them earlier, of course. They are now ready - and after the legislative procedure - and I am ready to submit them. I would simply remind those who were not here earlier that one amendment concerned the abolition of the increase in the penalty for persons who have covered or damaged their characteristics, namely the known case of the hood. The amendment is accepted with the difference that only in the crime of the robbery the hood remains a prestigious occasion. The second amendment tabled was the one concerning DNA control. As I had announced before, the provision is recast with some reforms and corrections in its text. If you would like, I could repeat it and then immediately after I testify to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u213	Minister, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u214	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u215	At noon, you said that you were not accepting the second amendment on DNA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u216	The second amendment concerning DNA is not acceptable to the point where it provided that reception was not compulsory. This continues to be the case. And as I explained - if you were present, Mr Kikilia - the amendment is accepted with other additions that are set in the old provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u217	Minister, that's not what you said. You said you'd think about it in the future...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u218	Mr Kikilia, let us see the amendments and improvements made by the Minister, and then you will have the time and the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u219	Do you want me to read them the way they've been configured? I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u220	Excuse me, Madam President. Mr Minister, since yesterday we have asked you to consider whether or not you will accept the amendments. Yesterday you were on guard and said you would let us know today. So, at noon today, you have accepted one amendment, and for the other you said - I was present in the Chamber - that this amendment cannot be accepted as it stands, but some things are taken into account and you will see what you are going to do in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u221	Not in the future, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u222	And you come now and say that you are accepting the second amendment. Okay, it's your decision, just to know what's going on with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u223	I said then, Mr Kikilia, and now I say that the amendment is not accepted in the future, but is now accepted. It is now accepted in other respects and not in that respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u224	I believe, Minister, with all due respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Kikilia, please don't have a dialogue with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u226	I can read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u227	Are you serious? But you're saying noon, but you're saying now. Whether he was put under pressure by colleagues and does the second amendment, it is another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u228	There are Minutes and you can see what I said before and what I say now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u229	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much. [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Nikolaos Paradulopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[Take a picture of the pages. 241-244]] ‘Where there is serious evidence that a person has committed a felony or a breach punishable by a prison sentence of at least one year, the prosecution authorities shall receive genetic material for analysis of deoxyribukleic acid in order to establish the identity of the perpetrator of that crime. Genetically obtained from the defendant himself shall be ordered by the competent prosecutor or interrogator and must be carried out with full respect for his dignity. In the event of the receipt of genetic material from a Party to the body, the presence of a public prosecutor shall be compulsory. The analysis shall be limited exclusively to the data strictly necessary for this determination and shall be carried out in a State or university laboratory. His DNA analysis is entitled to ask the defendant himself for his defence. In any event, the provisions of Articles 204 to 208 shall apply accordingly.’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor and Mr Thomas Kotsios follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u232	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that unfortunately in this Chamber we are doomed to hear the permanent, bankrupt bankruptcy. Defaulting is Parliament's favorite lasting resignations, whatever the subject may be, to such an extent that if a philosopher was present in the Chamber this weekend, many of the speeches would be cut off as out of the question. What our ears have not been heard in the debate of a bill dealing with the penitentiary system. We have heard about monuments, we have heard of failed negotiations, of vast influxes of immigrants and other sweet and beloved paradoxes and dangers from which we have also filled, and unfortunately the Greek people too. Secondly, it was heard again by a specific wing of Parliament, namely the Major Opposition, that the House with this bill intervenes in the work of judicial authority. Forgive me, I am a new MP, but I have the impression that the House is legislating and the judiciary simply controls the correct application or not of the laws. In addition, Parliament has once decided on the construction of Type III prisons, 'Course', etc. This House, it seems, will be the one with its decision to abolish them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, you are a Member of Parliament, not a Member of Parliament, to know what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Kikilia, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u235	You're welcome. Thirdly, when from one whole bill the only point of criticism is that it leads to the release of a particular terrorist, then rather business impotence, we also have lapsus from the substance, phenomena in which we have become accustomed to certain political areas and which, if we get out of this little room, we will see that laughter is causing me the expression, even in the last passive goat. I am going to the bottom of the subject we are discussing. Although I have been elected first Member of Parliament with SYRIZA, I am in this small group of people who have not been able first to understand why the Minister introduces this bill at the moment. I was thinking that the priorities of the newly created government should be other: negotiation, dynamic and multidimensional foreign policy, dealing with the huge humanitarian crisis, huge unemployment, labour, the environment, energy and many other issues, which have been inherited by the policies of the last five years. When I read from political and other para-political blogs that twenty-seven of my colleagues from the SYRIZA are proposing an amendment to the "scoulder" area, I must admit that I have been surprised and did not understand the crucial of the amendment. This embarrassment has not even been mitigated when I read the explanatory memorandum to this draft law. I only understood that it is rather moving in the right spirit and path, as central, essential and guiding line of the bill is Humanism, with alpha capitalism. Humanity, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, is not just another linguistic finding of rich, otherwise, Greek. From its conclusion, the word suggests an entire ideological and worthwhile current, which focuses on human beings, regardless of color, race, religion, ideological placement and - if you like - a worthy load. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, in particular PASOK and New Democracy, how it is possible to invoke rhetoric and use, as usual, wise tricks to blame some SYRIZA officials for sinning, that they are morally and politically persuasive, because they do not embrace the values of Christianity. It seems to you deliberately flees the fact that in many illustrations of our Christian tradition, which you otherwise invoke, the Christ only or - according to coron - with morally perpetual faces of the then society was smiling, the whore Maria Magdalene, the prodigal son, etc. According to the logic that for two days now you have been exposing us, all these figures and Christian illustrations should also then be thrown into Kaidas, stoned, dispersed, punished in the most shameful and inhuman manner. And to take a leap in history, if they were alive today, they would have to, for example, be locked up to a point of madness in Type III prison dungeons. So it seems, ladies and gentlemen, that you have in no way indulged in the true spirit of Christianity, which you indulge in, and so rather in Mankind, the central value of the Left, which you so fascistly instead of value, are insulting as indulgence, as a charge against us. But the hatred for the desolation of souls seems to be a great part of your philosophy and worldly understanding, since you do not mean that it comes from the ancient Greek word "soft", the one having the brakes. So what must be the state's policy towards those who sinned, who even committed crime, why did they not have the brakes? Shouldn't it be the Enlightenment? Should it not be through our example to show them love, truth, respect for the fellowman, solidarity? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Madam President. I do not of course want to mention in detail the fact that only a misanthropic brain could invent or even agree to this human tragedy - yes, tragedy - which we have experienced for five years because of the memoranda and not just. I just want - and I am finishing - to express my deepest question about the fact that all these decades that you have been ruling, selectively applied the punishments, selectively you did not like hoods. Otherwise, you would not let certain hoods be released for so many years, who in good cooperation with certain - and I hope very little - security forces are suspected of causing incidents in otherwise peaceful protests by citizens. However, I am afraid - and unfortunately - that just such groups for years of free hooded hoodiers may also have caused the previous episodes in the Polytechnic and Exarcheia for provocation and distraction. However, the historic juncture, ladies and gentlemen, imposes - apart from all others - openness, above all to ourselves and then to the people. Anyone who does not want to understand this message is at risk of losing once and for all the train in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Mr. Kotsias Thomas has the floor, and then Mr. Kikilias will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a new Member of Parliament, I have been struck by cynicism, wisdom, the constant effort of many Vice-Presidents from this House to destabilise every legislative initiative by the government with monstrous considerations, with the top of the ridiculous attempts to incriminate the government, with allegedly unveiling of underground routes by terrorists, by organisations, even reaching armed groups, as we were charged with yesterday. On the occasion of these unfair and slandering screams, I would like to remind many of you that just before 17 November was revealed in the autumn of 2001 - I do not know whether those who were then watching public affairs - had been made by large traffic a daily newspaper on the question of the opinion of our people on this organisation and what party they were voting on. It was then revealed from this investigation that this organisation, which took human lives in the name of the people's interests, where it had the most serious rhetoric and by far it was the conservative voters and not the left world. He has, of course, his explanation. Because the left do not believe in the protectors of the people, who in his name with a forty-five undertake to punish those who test them for the power of the people, unlike the conservative space, where you yourself discipline our people in a logic of saviors who, if they do not find the saviors in your own persons, are looking for those who are present as self-invited punishment for the social injustices they experience from your policy. Those who want our people on the road to claim rights to social and democratic freedoms do not believe in such forms of struggle. And they don't believe, because instead they suit those who want us on the sofas as the responsible recipients of their politics, feared and closed in our homes, the opinion makers who are your own people in the channels that they represent you are. All those who take such action are still making use of them, in order to build on them the repressive state, the 'terrorists', the 'could-dollars', the reduction of individual and democratic rights. The left are well aware of this because they are the first victims of these political persecutions as active citizens in the movements and social struggles for the rights of our people. So don't move the finger. Look into your beautiful world of dark interests all those you charge us. Any invoking of the Left's principles and values in their declarations - I am talking about the terrorist organisations - is exactly what they need to obtain the social bases and to lure naives or fans of the libertarian space to recruit and organise their executive arm. I would also like, with due respect for the relatives of the victims of terrorism, to say to them that they do not allow them to be used against those who defend human rights of the prisoners. I would remind you that the late Andreas Ledakis, a man who witnessed in the years of dictatorship as many of the few, was at the forefront of the release of his torturers when, for health reasons, they applied for their release, as were many prominent officials at the time of the New Democracy. I would also like to say at this point, since my compatriot's name, the late Paul Bakoyannis who had this tragic ending has been mentioned several times, that Paul Bakoyannis, whom I had the honour - and in his memory I bow to - was also aware of the positions of opposition, was serving these values when we hung out of his lips every night by the 'DEUTCSHE WELLE'. And I'm sure if he lived today, he wouldn't have a dilemma what he'd defend in such a humanitarian bill. But he wouldn't be with Baltaco and Samara's far right. This is the difference that you cannot understand. The draft law shows this very worthy burden and the U.S. leftist element that proudly makes all of us who will vote for it to become state law and have a penitentiary system that will not be avenged by those in court, but will serve their sentence and return to society. It is even better to conserve, as long as it can be achieved in these circumstances, especially in the prisons of minors. So terrorism is not built on the humanity that passes through the bill, but on social injustice and authoritarianism that penetrates your politics. Terrorists are not only hooded with the forty-fives, but also the economic killers of the peoples and those with their politics are increasing their social and class objections and leading desperately to suicide or terrorist organisations, blinded by hatred to think that they will change the world in this way. This cruel truth you cannot bear to listen to it, so you blame us on relations with terrorism. Finally, one of these days we are in Easter, addressing all of you who, in front of the cameras, make big crosses, I would like to remind you that the crucifixion of Christ took place with the convicted robbers, sending a special message with a high symbolism, and I would refer you to the evangelical saying "I was in prison and you visited me." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr Kotsia. We have completed the first circle of speakers on the articles. There are eight other speakers who propose that, with the right to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for four minutes, there have been no special speakers from the party groups and also some parliamentary representatives. I give you this information so that we know how long the process will take. Mr Kikilias has the floor and will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Mr. Rabbit, excuse me, but he had announced earlier that I would give the floor to Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u239	Okay, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u240	Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u241	I shall confine myself to the amendment on the famous 'Customary'. You have tabled another amendment - we are working on what changes you have made - and I will probably come back. I wonder, however, whether these two amendments, which were finally tabled and introduced today, have to do with the security of the citizens, have to do with the police's service, isology, justice, and if we have all seen the images of yesterday's incidents in the center of Athens. I sincerely expected after what happened yesterday that you would withdraw this amendment or not accept it and that you and your colleagues would show further thought and work on the possibility of abolishing Law 3772/2009 at the request of colleagues and MPs. I also thought that you would understand that it is a reality - which we cannot escape from it as much as we look forward to - that the hoodiers operate on the basis of results and image as anti-social elements and dangers, and with this current amendment, they will demolish, in my view, as long as you retreat towards members of the Cooperative in order to keep - and this reality is - the election promised, as well as to show further demonstrations of power, in my view, the prestige of the state. I wonder if you saw the images yesterday. They were specific images. They were hoodmen who were pushing cops into the E.R.R.D.'s wall. They were thrown into their face by fire extinguishers, beaten with cranes, while the police were trying to protect themselves. That was yesterday's picture. In what other European state have you seen such images? Is it--what am I supposed to say? - the new'red' Police and possibly meets the demands of the political leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u242	Three months ago, they were everywhere in all the capital cities of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u243	All right, Minister, I'll finish. I disagree with you. I'll interrupt, I'll listen to you if you want. It is obvious - I repeat - that the commands of the political leadership are policemen to remain abducted and passively look at the hoodmen destroying property, plundering, fireing, destroying public buildings, vandalizing our cultural heritage. I would refer you to all the last few days in all the vandalism of buildings, monuments such as Kapinikana, the desecration of the statue of Kavafis, the beheading of Cybeli, the propaganda of the Propylaea, the base in Parliament, the occupation and the burning of books in law. Look, some in here demand impunity, and that is why the amendments too. That is our view. We think there's ideological affinity. If this amendment is accepted, the reality will be that you are carrying out some election decisions and that the containers - where? - in the hoodiers area is a communist and the hoodier space operates as a preparatory stage in the exercise and promotion of future terrorists. I'm moving on and overcoming all the articles. I would like to come from now on: Minister, I would like to know how the clean people mean the left police. Burn the police from the hoodmen? And if so, who represent democracy and society and who control it. I'm sorry so I wouldn't have said that. Don't rush to answer me, Minister. The Minister of Public Order and Citizen Protection, Mr. Panousis, said so. It has asked this question since 3 April and is awaiting an answer. I think that today, with the amendment you tabled, you have asked him the question. I would have many other things to say, but they have been repeated many times these days in Parliament. Look, I think a lot of people have tried these days to show that there are major gaps possibly ideologically about how the state or democracy operates between us. I really don't want to believe that, Minister. I really don't want to believe that. That is why I ask you to revise and think that democracy works for the benefit of all, majorities and minorities, but ultimately there is a society and this society is what we want, its security, its well-being, its well-being, the well-being of its citizens, their property, universities, cultural centres, radio stations to which they are busting in hoods, Parliament, etc. In no case - and I have heard it repeatedly in here - the victims cannot be equated, i.e. the relatives of the victims of the terrorist attacks, with anyone else who wants to create problems in Greek society, no matter how much we want to round up and make this picture. I would like to ask you to withdraw this amendment as well and to think very seriously about this fragmentary bill, which you have brought to discuss first in your term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Mr Ioannis Ragos, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor. Mr. Rabbit, you're entitled eight minutes and six for your dentistry. How much will you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u245	Seven to eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u246	Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Madam President. We were in detail yesterday on the subject of the bill. I would just like to say a few things that have been heard here in the House today and to comment on them. We have heard the President of the Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, telling us various proposals. Someone was right about what she said. I'd like to stand on one particular one, though. He wondered at some point why it did not apply and why the new Criminal Code did not come to the Greek Parliament. In fact, he specifically said the name of Mr Marquis, who is the one who recommended him. It is clear - and I stressed yesterday, I am simply saying this to hear it once again and know it - that the reason why this new Criminal Code does not come is that the Greek state is forced to vote and to ratify once again - because it is already ratified - the Palermo Treaty, according to which there must be a criminal organisation, as it is accused of being Golden Dawn. Unfortunately, for many of us in this House, not only were they found in the parties on the Golden Dawn, but neither was it a Member of this House, nor one of its representatives. That is the reason why this new Criminal Code is not coming. If it were not for the Palermo Treaty inside, be sure that it would have come and would have been ratified perhaps today or even earlier. We have heard the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Mitropoulos, who is complaining - and quite rightly in my opinion, if and if he is right - that he has been charged with various things, some economic irregularities and all of them. It came out yesterday and told us once again about the Nicoludi list, which includes various executives, various MPs, various people who are involved with the political parties in Greece. I would like to ask, but also to ask as Golden Dawn for the coexistence of SYRIZA and ANEL, that this list of Nikoloude finally come and see it. I have told you on several occasions - and I stressed it yesterday - that we have no involvement in anything, and that is why we are so clear and demanding. So, Nicolude's list should be here. After the Vice-President of Parliament himself asks, why not? Here's the rest of the lists we're diligently hiding. There are some things that sound like there are some lists. They circulate there in secret, on the Internet, but in fact nothing comes to see it properly, officially and subject to the law's sanctions - if anyone has to suffer them - those who have been wrong. I would also like to remind the Government that before the elections were held and before that government had said that too many procedural documents of former Members, former ministers of the New Democracy - PASOK and other places had come to Parliament and had entered the drawer of the office of the former Minister of Justice, Athanasios, according to Babi's calls from what they were saying. We would like to ask as a Golden Dawn to come out of this, so let us see who is involved. Because, Minister, we have a case of characteristic - I will say the last - of Mr Michalakis, who, when the Anti-terrorist Agency was looking to find evidence of a certain businessman against the Golden Dawn, unfortunately, found that he was being donated by a particular businessman to ask questions for him or against a competitor. We don't know if it's true or lying. We want these to be verified, however. And the case-file came, asked for the appropriate prosecutors and put it, as the phone calls said, in the drawer and hid it. That government has changed. You're here. We expect you to bring these things into publicity here and prove who the clean ones are and who they have done dishonour to the detriment of the Greek people. I also heard the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, PASOK, we are not talking about it, we are not discussing it - to criticise the Minister of Justice, because he dared to say to my question yesterday that, yes, our illegally confiscated Members must come and take part in the procedures of the Greek Parliament and said that. So he dared to say that he intervened - he says - the Justice Minister. What is the intervention? You see Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Germenis, Mr. Kuzilos? There is no intervention. The only intervention that existed was from the former Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, by the former Minister of Justice, Athanasios, by the former Minister of Public Order, Dendia, in order to illegally put innocent people in prison, elected MPs of the Greek Parliament. On the contrary, however, the PASOK Parliamentary Representative should thank the Minister of Justice here in SYRIZA. Do you know why? Because when a question was raised here, other than the Member, Mr Nicholas, of the coup d'état and raised various cases involving ministers and MPs of the PASOK with illegal funding - Mr Tsukatos with a number of thousands of brands from "SIEMENS" and other cases - he had asked for it to be done and prosecuted in PASOK as a criminal organisation. And the Minister said to him - and to me quite rightly he did - that we cannot take different cases, make a union of all this and lead a political party to prison or indictment. Only I would like to remind you here that this is exactly the way the Golden Dawn is currently in the indictment. They have taken thirty-two different cases that have taken place from the edge of Greece, made us a puzzle, built it and brought us here in order to apologise to us, which we have no involvement in anything. So let PASOK please the Minister of Justice and leave what he does for alleged intervention. Finally, I should like to refer to the bill, especially to the penitentiary officials, who are going through very difficult times in the Greek prisons. We are constantly talking about prisoners' conditions. Yes, we must improve them, but we absolutely must look at what is going to happen and what is going to happen with the penitentiary staff. We fully agree that new penitentiary officers should be recruited. In fact, we believe that this figure, which is mentioned in the bill, is too little. We'd like even more recruitment. Secondly, we would like to stress that it should be done - as Golden Dawn we propose - a kind of training for these workers, because each man goes to shut down some evildoers, behave with them, behave as he should behave, and many of them do not know and go like sheep to slaughter in there. We think, Minister, that it would be a good thing if some kind of examination were to be carried out, some sort of preparation, so that they could get in and carry out their duties as they please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u248	Mr Iason Fotillas, a special speaker from the Potamian Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Mr. Fotella, you have at your disposal twelve minutes, protology and denology together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to a second year perhaps the amendments. Unfortunately, as I just got them in my hand, I didn't get to read the legislative improvements. Since I was able to read, I saw that improvements are moving in the right direction. In my speech yesterday I referred to the principle of the bill and the serious reservations we have on the river for Articles 1 and 2 of this bill. We have a strong disagreement on the abolition of the maximum security prisons proposed in Article 1, and we disagree very strongly with the Minister's position that the existing framework of detention of highly dangerous detainees in special warheads across the country is considered satisfactory. As in Article 2, we have a full range of views, where, with the invoicing of words of humanism, equality and justice, an unprecedented amnesty is being attempted, without setting any risk criteria for the perpetrator, which will result in the release of persons who should normally remain incarcerated. In Article 2, however, there are also positive points which refer to the decongestion of detention centres by foreigners who have been sentenced to detention or who have been imposed a security measure, as the number of foreigners detained in Greek prisons is quite large. However, I would like to draw your attention to paragraph 3, which refers to the cases of foreigners, for which the consular authority of their country does not operate or cooperate, and in this case the expulsion will be suspended. This is where the government has to stand very careful. Because, you know, sometimes this is done deliberately and so there is a chance that many foreigners will be caught in our country with a weakness of deportation. This, given the great increase in migration flows, which have recently occurred, would have been particularly aggravating for the country. With regard to Article 3, which concerns a number of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, there are several points with which we agree, but unfortunately we cannot vote in favour of paragraphs. However, I would like to mention some positive points, such as the abolition of the EUR 1,000 financial penalty envisaged as a reform measure for minors. Listen: a measure of 1,000 euros paid by parents will be a reform measure for children! We've heard that too! Also positive is the possibility of accessing minors to the elements of their case-file, but also of abolishing the registration of reform measures in the criminal register. One point that deserves attention is the abolition of the temporary detention of a minor in all cases, except for life-threatening abuses, as a minor who has committed extremely violent offences or crimes will continue to be left without temporary detention. It is important for us to see the structures and faces judge whether and whether the minor needs temporary detention or not. The provisions of Article 4, relating to amendments to drug legislation and moving within the spirit of previous law, n. 4139/2013, we are in agreement. Although overall there are no significant changes in relation to the law in force, I would like to mention a point in subsection 7, which replaces Article 35 of the existing law, where certain conditions for the actual dismissal are abolished. In the first subparagraph, in particular, the current law required the effective monitoring of the programme to be made redundant, which we see to be abolished in the draft law. It shall also abolish the execution of one fifth of the sentence as a condition of dismissal. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, with the new law it will be possible for a prisoner to be fired, even if the programme has not been successfully completed from one to three weeks and has not been implemented at all! In any case, however, we will vote in favour of Article 4 and the changes to the legal framework on drugs, because they are moving towards the choice of rehab instead of prison. However, we are immediately waiting for the Government and the Ministry responsible to step up rehab facilities for the burden they will have to bear in order to enable these centres with the difficulties they face in their infrastructure to carry out their genuinely difficult task. The question of Potami is the essential application of the existing legal framework on drugs and the strengthening of rehabilitation facilities. Article 5 refers to retrainers and effectively abolishes the placement to a reformary as a preventive measure, except for felonies punished by life imprisonment. In essence, we have the gradual abolition of the institutions of law and once again the government operates with the usual practice: if an institution is not working well, we are abolishing it, we are not correcting it. Of course, this finds us opposing the river. Article 6 concerns exceptional measures for the dismantling of detention shops. Unlike the first two bills, which are falsified, this is not a document. This is indeed about decongestion of detention stores. However, it is attempting to resolve the question of the difficult living of the prison population resulting from excessive congestedness in detention stores and the government is trying to deal with it with old, failed policies through mass releases. And it is worth wondering why the present government chooses to deal with it with a practice that has been systematically used in the past and which has failed. For example, I mention the relevant laws - which are mentioned in the explanatory statement - which have been adopted in the last decade: n. Commission Regulation (EC) No 3346/2005, p. No 3727/2008, p. Commission Regulation (EC) No 3772/2009, p. No 3904/2010, p. Regulation (EC) No 4043/2012, 4198/2013 and end of year n. Date of birth: (a) 4274/2014. It is clear that to have reached the present point, previous decongestion laws did not deliver what is expected. Instead of trying something different, the government does the same again, using the excuse 'but, that's how it always happens'. It is self-evident not only the temporary success of this measure, but also its long-term failure, as the judges, knowing in advance that the prisoners will perform less than the prescribed sentence, end up tightening the sentences, in fact by cancelling the goal of decongestion of prisons, as he is now trying to do. Although the explanatory statement mentions the need for long-term planning and organisation of the penitentiary system, it does not result from any article in this bill. The explanatory statement also admits that exceptional decongestion measures do not solve the issue, but are a temporary and only solution. Still, they're trying to do it again. Because the government cannot - or possibly does not - resolve the issue of overpopulation in the penitentiary, it goes on to horizontal measures that lead to urban releases, which are often not only unfair, but also dangerous. More specifically, Article 6 releases prisoners without any restriction on offences, only if they have served a minimum part of their sentence and, in particular, for sentences of up to three years, if they have served 1/10, for sentences of three to five years, even if they relate to felonies, and for sentences of more than five years which have been imposed for offences, 1/5, for sentences of five to ten years, 1/5. This horizontal release of detainees, without any restriction on offences again without setting any criteria on the risk of the perpetrator, cannot agree to us. This arrangement annulled judicial decisions imposed and devalued the work of judges and prosecutors. In fact, the state rewards some prisoners because of its own inability to solve the problems of the penitentiary system. In Article 7 of the bill, again on the grounds of the decongestion of prisons and the influx of money, it attempts to convert unexplained decisions into money, in fact by once again cancelling judicial decisions and making the treatment of convicted persons unfair, depending on their financial situation. The only positive aspect of this regulation is that it provides for prisoners who do not have the economic opportunity to repay, buy, in other words, their sentence, to provide social work. And this measure should be strengthened. In Article 8, we have another general and iso-ecological regulation which provides that all minors detained in a special detention shop for young people are fired, with the exception of those who have committed a felony containing elements of violence. The penalty is stated to be replaced by reform measures, without, of course, stating which one is specific. This provision is not accompanied by a framework for modernising humanitarian structures which will be called upon to support minors. Once again the government legislates without having anticipated the necessary structures. During the debate in the committee, we asked the Minister to add exceptions for crimes with a special decency, and I think he moved in this direction to at least one point. Article 9 lays down the authorising provision for the operation of open or semi-lived establishments. It is a positive measure and we hope that these centres will function in foreign standards. We are also waiting here, in a future government legislation, for further clarification. In Article 10, we have the increase of staff at booking shops with five hundred forty-five secondary posts and thirty-five university-education posts. Recruitment of staff in detention stores is in any case a positive measure. We hope, however, that the Minister will answer us if this is the highly qualified staff he mentioned during the debate in the committee responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, in Potami we have serious reservations about the changes made to this bill and, unfortunately, during the debate in the committee, the Minister did not give us the assurance that the positive provisions of the bill will proceed successfully, and that we were also not given clear explanations of the risks posed by horizontal release decisions, which, as we have said, are effectively abolishing the work of the judges. Under no circumstances can we agree with horizontal releases of detainees solely on the basis of their age and health reasons, without in any way assessing their risk or personality. We cannot agree with the incarceration of all detainees regardless of criminal risk in a common penitentiary, nor can we consent to leaving minors with violating raids on the operating circuits. Potami will not consent to the reproduction of outdated and failed past practices, in the recipes that have been tested and have failed on a continuous basis. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the government, as part of an evangelized left-wing policy, comes to implement irregularly and without much thought, practices leading to immunity and lawlessness. In my opinion this is not progressive. It's anachronistic and inefficient, and after all it's not a genuine left. It is left-wing, therefore populist, which, in my view, is the most serious enemy of the government, although it is one of the points that helped her win these elections. But populism, ladies and gentlemen, has never historically helped any country to go forward and therefore no government has been in power for a long time, leaving history with positive results. The "first time left", which part of the people voted for, supported even if it did not vote SYRIZA, if it really wants to go forward and not backwards or backwards where some parts of the right or the right-wing people recently attempted to take it, must combine genuine radical ideology with progressive but realistic and effective policies and practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr Vorides has the floor and Mr Karayannides is ready. Mr. Voridis, under the Rules of Procedure, you have four minutes, with a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u251	Madam President, may I ask you on this, why did I hear you say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u253	You spoke of a proposed dentology. I don't have a second. I am speaking first of all in the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u254	Good, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u255	So I have to be in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u256	Eight minutes, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Madam President. On the other hand, the government's legislative intervention has evolved during the debate in plenary. On the other hand, because you are supposed to incorporate nothing of what the Opposition says in order to say that there is vigilance in a certain criticism. You obviously have ears on another type of opposition, on your extreme left-wing opposition, because I see that important requests have been met at this stage. But like all, when they are compromise products, Minister, they have dogmatic issues, especially in criminal law, so now. Because, although you have accepted your proposal on the left of your internal opposition on the issue of "collages" or burdensome circumstances, when crimes are committed with the characteristics covered, you have abolished it, but you have retained that provision in the area of robbery. I, too, come to ask: why is the issue of robbery particularly deceptive, but is there no defiance in the issue of serious physical harm? So, when someone's robbing with its features covered, it's a aggravating circumstance, but when it's causing serious physical harm to someone else with its features covered, then isn't it a aggravating circumstance? When it causes unnecessarily damage, for example, or unnecessarily physical damage or a disruption of home peace, then in this case it is not a prejudicial occasion to use the hood, but when it is robbed, it is a prestigious occasion to use the hood. This is a compromise. Something to listen to us a little, something to satisfy others, we made a compromise that dogmatically is lame. It is a bad thing in criminal law that these compromises are being compromised. It'd be better if you took it all the way from the other side. At least it would have a dogmatic effect. Yesterday, too, I accused you of why this arrangement, as it comes, raises three issues. The abolition of type III prisons, I said who it is about. It concerns organised crime and terrorists. I blamed you for the settlement of the Drought, and I accused you, because I had suspected - and I was entitled - that you would accept the amendment to the hoods. I forgot about this other nice camera device, which I didn't blame you for. I will charge it to you today for the fullness of criticism. It concerns relatives, who will now be kept at home, on the basis of this amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. And here the relatives are obviously the relatives of the "Fills of Fire". Once again, we have a fourth intervention in this particular environment - because you say you are wrongly accused. I have heard a lot of things, ladies and gentlemen, from the side of SYRIZA about humanity, the need for decency, to see the man behind the prisoner and the very bad conditions of detention. I began to think that I, the conservative lawyer and Conservative MP, have been alienated from humanitarian values and do not see the value of the legislation. I did such a self-criticism at the moment, to conclude that I have of course not been alienated and I am just saying it. Then, in fact, we can see whether this argument has something to do with the bill. So I heard: 'The health situation in prisons is terrible.' I'm signing it. And you're improving it? What does the bill have to do with this situation? I heard: 'We have too many isovites'. Indeed. And you're improving it? Did you abolish some isovirus in this bill and I missed it? Are you here to say that a life sentenced offence must not be punished and punished, for example, by temporary? Oh, no. I heard that prisoners are not trained, so there is no prisoners' penitentiary. Yes, sir. And you're fixing it? Is this what I'm doing with this bill? I have heard that the building facilities and the conditions of residence of the prisoners in certain prisons are terrible. That's right. Can you fix it? From the humanitarian structure of detention, which has been so concerned with you, what exactly do you correct with this specific legislative intervention? Or is the argument different? If that's the way it is, then let's get them out of prison, why don't they serve no punishment. And then I will ask the following question: why are they alone? Are the others not favoured by these provisions and remain in these poor conditions? Why just them? It's not fair. Get them all out. Don't be a human being, because there are bad conditions of detention. What's your humanism getting exhausted? The decongestion of the prisons? In the provisions on terrorists? In favor of Xeros? I heard about Xero two nice parallels. He says: a disabled man, whatever he did... he killed six or seven, he's a serial killer, Serial Killer is the Dryer. So I heard: A disabled man has done ten years in prison. Shouldn't we put him at his house? I'd like to ask something else. Let's assume there's this. A disabled person with 80% disability, who with his accomplices is to rape minors and then, in order not to reveal the rape, kills them, will he be treated with your order, Minister? Is it worth it, or is that especially true of Xero? Here's what I want to say with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u258	So say it! Death sentence to bring in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u259	Don't go to the death penalty. Let it go. It's another conversation. Don't mess it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u260	Remember. We're fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u261	Be fair to arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u262	But you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u263	I also heard this: But, you know, the primates were defiance of democracy because they were damaged. Precisely. With irreversible damage, following a court judgement on the issue of their damage, they were exempted by explicit legislative provisions from all favourable regulations, one - one. Read the Criminal Code. They've all been excluded. We don't do the same for terrorists. We didn't exclude them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I shall end right away. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Be careful, this question is important, because - I stress it - humanism must be of a character? Not that a crippled criminal is punished less than a barber - because a critic who is delinquent does the same evil as a barrister who is criminalised - but whether his detention has consequences for his health, that is critical and that can be about a healthy, unhealthy one. But, if necessary, my colleague, in the case of disability, it is more easily understood whether these adverse effects are present in his health. But do you, Minister, make such a provision to see that detention really has adverse consequences? That's not what you're saying. Automation: Is he disabled? Since he's a cripple, he has served part of his sentence to go home and we don't care what he's done. Ladies and gentlemen, in dogmatic terms from the point of view of Criminal law, the Minister for Justice, because he is a professor of the Criminals and knows what we are talking about, he knows that this bill belongs to that series of bills that do not serve any humanitarian value. They serve the needs and nightmares faced by the justice ministers of this country, due to the detention conditions and the overcrowding of prisoners, not to be uprised by the prisoners. This confronts this bill and all the rest are thick words and big words. What this bill does, and which is also bad, does bad interventions, is the abolition of juvenile prisons. You will send prisoners of minors to adult prisons, which is extremely bad. Of course, the relationship that emerges, which cannot be hidden, is the deep ideological relationship with certain people, whom you want to face more favourably for some reason, even though they are doomed to terrorist acts and even though they do not deserve the decency of anyone, especially because they insist on the motivation of their murders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven members of the Youth and Care Agency and of the Third Age of the Municipality of Aspropyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christos Karayannides has the floor for four minutes, followed by Mr. Bukokouros also for four minutes. Here, Mr Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u265	Madam President, I have an objection. As Mr Vorides asked for eight minutes and spoke ten and fifty seconds, and since I have not been the first to hear about the articles, I think I am wronged by what you said'strengthen four minutes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u266	I'm joining you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u267	I know!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Karayannides, let's get this over with...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u269	Madam President, I will not speak for more than four minutes. I'm just asking you to do a good job.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Karayannides, Mr. Voridis is wrong. However, I did not want to discuss who is right and who is wrong at this time. Mr Vorides, on page 190 of the Rules of Procedure, you should speak for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u271	Why, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Karayannides, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u273	Madam President, I will not embarrass you and try to finish in four minutes. It's interesting to hear Mr. Voridis, because he always makes targeted speeches. However, he has a magical ability to take a painting of painting, to cut him slices, to reorder him and to regard him as a work of art as an independent device that has been made. And I'm explaining what I mean. Yesterday I read to you the left-wing opposition, composed of the sixty-four presidents of the legal clubs who said specific things about the "cooper" and who were hard to criticise. I refer to Mr Manoledakis and Mr Paxinos, whom you supported as a New Democracy in the elections of the Athens Bar Association and who had done - since you like to read it all the time, I will repeat - this statement: "I will wear hood and protest in the Constitution". If they belong to the left-wing opposition, well. But, as you can see, they don't belong. Secondly, from the point of view of the New Democracy, there is an obsession with revenge. We say this: people who have been sick, have been ill in prison, have the right to have the medical treatment that suits them, because they maintain human status. The New Democracy, on the other hand, says that people who have been convicted of serious crimes are murderers, lose humanity, are something else and they deserve to die in prison and not have the rights that the rest of the world has. We do not share this view. We believe that all people in this country, whatever they have committed, as they have already supported, and in 1980 and 1990, the New Democracy for the Priests of the Junta - have rights. And I come to the third point. We have heard an excellent confession from the rapporteur in New Democracy. And if we think he was a Minister of Public Order, that confession is even more excellent. The rapporteur, therefore, of the New Democracy said that prisons are run by the mafia. That is what it says voluntarily that all the Justice Ministers who were until January are failed. But I didn't see any Justice Minister quit. Because if the mob runs the prisons, someone should have had the sensitivity to resign. So, what are you saying? Are you saying that the mafia runs prisons the two months SYRIZA took over? Obviously not! So I say: if prisons are run by the mafia, it means that you have failed completely and you must resign from Members as well and not simply resign from the position of the Minister you held. Because you have brought prisons, the penitentiary system in a situation where you have an absolute responsibility. Fourth. I heard something unthinkable by the Head of the River, who asked on word - and I read it to you, why did I write it in the time it was said - "Who will protect society from a rich man who will bring two papers for an incurable and difficultly detectable disease?" It is extremely dangerous for party leader not to know, firstly, the laws and, secondly, not to monitor legislative improvements. I read from the legislative improvements to Mr. Theodorakis, who only comes to speak and then goes. The words ‘the doctor of the shop’ shall be deleted and the words ‘from an invalidity certification centre’ shall be added. That's where someone's gonna get the certification, see if he's disabled or not. Mr Theodorakis should now know so that he does not just come here and tell us things that do not apply. The second thing Mr Theodorakis said, and it is also incomprehensible: he spoke of the prisons of Drama. They are the imprisonments of the Municipality of Paranessios that are in Nikiforos, but that is very small detail. So he said, "they don't have a thousand to open this prison." Once again, Mr Theodorakis has not been properly informed, because he has a'scientific' view of these things and makes mistakes. These prisons - for which the New Democracy and the PASOK must be apologised - are a scandal. They started building in 2004, we have 2015 and will be completed now, but in these ten years none of you were found to apologize for what happened to the EUR 20,000,000 spent on these prisons. Let me tell you what happened: feed your people, that's what happened. And now Mr Theodorakis comes to criticise why these prisons do not open up. So get to know the history and then come and criticize us. Fifthly and lastly: 'Koukoulon'. Will Mr Kikilias, who is also the rapporteur and former Minister of Public Order, tell us about hooded policemen coming down from the police cages and disguise themselves in protesters? Is Mr. Kikilis gonna tell us anything about the protesting hooded policemen who were on machines? Do you want to get those pictures back to you? You want to talk about a body that you created and disguised in a protestor and caused episodes, fires and cracks? Do you want to talk about a body which is illegally still in existence today and which has to be abolished in the police, which is politically entering protests and no one controls them? But the hoods only bother you because some people might wear them. Then criminalize the gloves, because as the robbers know, they wear gloves and whoever we meet in the way they wear gloves in winter, we'll tell him "You're a suspect in the robbery and so we're gonna have to collect you, get you DNA against your will, do one, two more tortures to prove you're not an elephant." But that is not how justice goes and justice never went like that. You have turned it into what you say 'justice'. We have a very different view of justice. She's the one we bring to the fore with this bill. There will be other bills - so don't get confused by this, there are others coming, we give you time to get confused about the next ones too - and you expect to see what happens with the Criminal and Penal Code. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Mr. Bukouros has the floor. Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor for four minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u275	Thank you. I hope it'll be enough time,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u276	It will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u277	...if not, please, too much for a similar tolerance to that of Mr Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u278	There will be tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u279	Thank you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would like to make two - three observations only, ladies and gentlemen, on the bill under discussion, for which in the last few days we have heard some things that are far from our logic. Improving the penitentiary system, improving detention conditions are supposed to be the object and core of this bill. However, the improvement of the penitentiary system and detention conditions in the penitentiary without the appropriate resources, without the appropriate structures, cannot be achieved without the necessary tools. And this bill does not provide for anything like that. Look at the international experience. The Nordic countries have high-level penitentiaries. The other European countries and the countries of North America are following. Check out the detention stores of third world countries. Without expenditure, without resources and without structures, no penitentiary system can be improved. The bill we are discussing does not at all provide for any of this. Waiver of prisons: did the Minister not consider that six or seven such legislative initiatives of the past have not produced any results and are now overpopulation of the penitentiary stores? However, because in the course of the civilisation, because in our democracy nothing is autonomous and outdated, I would like to point out to the Minister, even though it is not available, that the immigration policy pursued by the SYRIZA Government in the first few months of its life will once again fill the penitentiary stores, which are attempting to dismantle the bill that we are discussing. Already, some of the unfortunate immigrants who were made redundant, released from the center of Amygdale, young people, about ten people, are in the penitentiary stores of Volos, Corinth and Alona, because if we assume that they were malicious and miserable, with the choices of the SYRIZA Government, they were found homeless and hungry and therefore forced to outlaw themselves in order to survive. It is not a solution to these horizontal policies, even to the beneficial provisions of the bill for the dismissal of detainees. SYRIZA's colleagues say that the horizontal economic measures are unfair, but that the horizontally beneficial provisions of the bill under discussion are fair. I am not going to mention the prisoners with the most serious accusations of terrorism, of murder, and of all because I have first been covered by many colleagues, but I also see a disturbance in such reports on the SYRIZA headquarters. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I wonder what a worthwhile system and what legal culture prompts you and allows you to adopt beneficial provisions - and indeed very favourable - of prisoners who committed rape, childcare and seduction crimes. A disabled perpetrator with 80% disability that can suffer from deafness or missing one hand does not mean he cannot commit such unintentional crimes. What legal culture, then, allows you to adopt such provisions? I could say a lot more. If you want to improve the conditions of detention, you should provide for education, training of detainees, so that they can be reinstated more smoothly in society, in a society that faces difficulties, not similar to those facing our penitentiary system, but in any case difficulties. Finally, your beneficial provisions which favour? The financially powerful prisoners, those who have the'sides' outside to survive when they are released and not some who had the misfortune or who have chosen to commit a crime and are in prison today. They will relapse with mathematical accuracy and return to a penitentiary that will still be filled. So the problem of overcrowding is not tackled. It is totally fragmentary and the bill reminds me very strongly of the popular saying "tooth hurts, cut head". It is very serious that these issues should be dealt with in such a fragmentary way, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Regarding Type III prisons and here I feel that the SYRIZA government is once again discovering the wheel. Which European country does not have disciplinary prisons, Type III prisons? And the only store we have built in Greece, in order to function as Type III prison, is the Domokos shop. What are you doing there? Do you change the name? Will you unlock the security doors, the security windows? Prison has been built. Instead of using international experience both in improving detention conditions and in the beneficial provisions that we can anticipate, improvise and fragmentary legislation. Finally, the ‘gullman’ was not the law of 2009, because that law was trying to get the hoods out. 'Koukoulon' is the one that comes with today's amendment, because it disguises the hoods and wears the hoods to potential perpetrators. And why is it a aggravating occasion at bank robbery the hood rather than throwing molotovs or other explosive materials into a workplace called Marfin or in any other workplace, an action that causes human victims? Why then isn't this a grim occasion? So, fragmentary bill. More problems will be created than will be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, too. Mrs Olga Gerovali, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Mrs. Gerovassili, you're entitled to fourteen minutes protology and denology together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u281	I will be shorter, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u282	Immediately afterwards, Mr. Jamaklis will speak. Here, Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government has used various practices to implement extreme neoliberal policy. I would remind you that she initially triggered social automation, a practice which, of course, attracts her origin from the period of Simitis, then the doctrine of zero tolerance, after the doctrine of 'whoever does not die', the theory of the two extremes and even though she did not come out in her previous elections, insists and insists on repeating the same failed rhetoric, naturally awaiting a different result. In my view, this insistence is a confession of deadlock, obsessive ideological wrestling and an exaggerated uncertainty about the correctness of this strategy. It is like trying again to open Mr. Tsipras's office and get in, open with his key, a key that sees that it does not fit the time that many in his party, inside the New Democracy, ask him to hand over the keys. He doesn't admit any of this. But he insists that the think tank of the New Democracy party insists on a new theory that was then invented and called the "left parentheses", a theory that makes it true. The Members of the New Democracy - and not only - are shocked by the fact that the principles and values of the Left have the opportunity to become majority social power, beyond the numerical logic of the poll. They believe that this government is not exactly government. It is a government replacement, substitute until the previous rests and comes back "and we will return". In this idea, too many willing people have found themselves, particularly in the media, who are of course always in the service of power and profit. Every day, in terms of gempel propaganda, they try to convince the Greek people of a new virtual reality, this virtual reality that created a portion of the media, as it was yesterday - I will remind you - on the occasion of the march of "ELDORADO GOLD" workers in Athens. For the first time, there has been such huge labour mobilisation coverage in recent years, unlike marches that took place in Thessaloniki last year, which listed tens of thousands of protesters and, of course, were invisible marches, as if they never happened. But you know, ladies and gentlemen of the former government, you can fool many for a long time, but you can't fool everyone forever. In any case, I shall refer to the Minister's amendments. With regard to the amendment to abolish the 'collages', the 'collages' was one of the most authoritarian provisions of the government of Kostas Karamanlis. Hundreds of people have been persecuted on the basis of this - the majority of them were not youths, minors many times - because they simply took part in a course or many times, because they were passing by. Even these individuals and their families, of course, are being sacrificed. These arrangements proved fully ineffective to ensure the so-called'social peace'. They were also criticised by the entire scientific community because they suffer from unconstitutionalism. Objections were voiced by the police trade unions. The opposition parties also objected. I remember a member of the JRC who appeared in Parliament in a symbolic motion, wearing the hood from the jacket and making her speech from this Step with the hood. Also, this law was committed by the PASOK government to abolishing it, without, however, ever doing so. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that for the first time, action with covered features as a particularly aggravating case has entered the Rally's dominance government with n. 621943. At that time, it was predicted through an emergency court of law to the death penalty. As far as the amendment to the house arrest for relatives of accused persons is concerned, I would like to point out that, in the Criminal Code since 1950, two acts have remained unpunished, when they are carried out by relatives: the undermining of criminals and the omission of criminal offences. Today, a regulation is being introduced for all other crimes concerning the treatment of detainees at the interrogation stage. Irrespective persons up to two degrees of blood, spouses and acquaintances may be replaced, if they are favorably treated, by the house arrest when the offence helped the principal perpetrator for moral reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, today the debate on the Legislation of the Ministry of Justice concludes. However, it continues to form a puzzle from yesterday and from the day before yesterday in the “class and security” series this time and with the spear's peak in the last days of the dear immigration. This is an issue which, although it is European in scope, although it is not an issue offered for small-scale exploitation, came both the media and the anti-population parties - not all - to exploit it and strengthen xenophobia and racism again. I would remind Mr Prander of what he said in the MEGA news report: 'It is not our fault if immigrants enter a January month's boat and are obviously drowning'. So cynical! Ladies and gentlemen, all this has been used to weaken the government's efforts. All this, along with terroristism, together with what is needed by Grexit, together with allegedly indefensible and insolence, and everything else we have heard here in this Chamber, is done with only one objective. The aim is to weaken the government from its negotiating position and from its legislative work. Obviously, none of this is going to happen. The government is doing and will do what is necessary for the country, what is in the interest of the Greek people, without compressing either from the squatters, from incidents, etc., or of course from them, which the Greek people sent them where they were sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. Mr Charilaos Tsakalis has the floor for four minutes. Here, Mr President, you have the floor with tolerance, of course, as you all do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft law contains important provisions which not only serve its immediate objective, namely the necessary decongestion of prisons, but introduce new rules based on the principles of the rule of law and humanism. It is based on the philosophy that the institution of imprisonment should not be a vengeance and that the way in which the sentence is being created should not relate to the committed offence, but should tend to the need to reinstate the sentenced person in society. In my view, the draft law can be a starting point for the introduction of our own democratic and humanist philosophy into the 'professional - imposition of the penalty - elaboration of the penalty'. It can be a starting point for justice to become fully independent and a pillar of democracy. In order to build up this philosophy consistently in the sense of acceptance and incorporation by society, it is necessary to introduce other arrangements, such as reform of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, increasing the number of judges, establishing a body of purely criminal judges, continuing training of judges on the basis of constantly evolving science (social, medical, etc.).). The introduction of such regulations will, on the one hand, form a new legal framework for citizens and, on the other, the state will not be forced at regular intervals to legislate under unbearable circumstances, such as the present one. Mr Minister, as you know, twenty-nine SYRIZA Members have tabled an amendment to abolish paragraph 12 A of Article 34 of the Road Traffic Code. Justification for the amendment we say that in 2007 they were ratified by law concessions of the national road network to multinational technical companies consortia. After their ratification a movement of citizens who, in various forms of mobilization, manifested their protest. The most common form of mobilizations was and still is the occupation of part of the roadside at the points where toll stations have been erected and the suspension of banners. This peaceful form of mobilisation prevented the prosecution authorities from dividing the facts into the provisions of Article 292 of the Criminal Code for blocking traffic. During the period of co-government of Papademos with Minister Voridis under Article 143(2) of Law 4070/2012 was added to the Road Traffic Code, namely Article 34(12) A, which reads as follows: ‘It shall be prohibited in any way to occupy part or all of the road and road toll station installed therein, as well as to block or interrupt, in part or in whole, the operation of toll stations in any way. Those who are in breach of the provisions of the preceding subparagraph shall be punished by the penalties referred to in Article 292(1) of the Criminal Code.’. On the basis of the above provision, Minister, which criminalises a peaceful form of protest against thousands of citizens throughout the PATHE axis, criminal prosecutions have been carried out or pre-examinations and pre-examinations have been ordered, not following arrests or incubations, but following checks on the number of cars parked either on the national roads or on adjacent routes. The criminalisation of this form of protest as an object in the Constitution is unacceptable. It was set up to bring about the wave of protests and to terrorise the citizens. The abolition of this provision is a commitment of the SYRIZA and is in line with its position during its vote and thereafter. At the same time it is in line with the mature demand from local societies that have been persistently denounced for three years. We urge you, Minister, to accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Jamaklis. Mr Athanasios Scumas has the floor and Mrs Danais Jeka - Kostopoulos is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by referring to the provision of the Ministerial Amendment, which, in my opinion and as it has shown in the debate, is acceptable to a large number of people, particularly on the part of the Co-Population, concerning the possibility of imposing on the judiciary a restriction on the duty of the defendant on grounds of his or her status as a co-legislator and his perceptions of his own obligations under this article. And this provision has been very critical, although also correct dogmatically, but it is also correct on the basis of the substantive criminal law in that Articles 231 and 232 of the Criminal Code provide for impunity in such cases. Basically, a provision that aligns the procedure with the essential criminal provisions is to be put in place. Of course, I would like to say here that, as far as we know, both from our tradition and from the conflict of interests which arise in these cases, it is clear that from the myth of Antigone to the modern 'Creats' the hybrid is punished by clearance. I would also like to refer to the provision on the 'collages', which abolishes the provisions of the Treaty. 3772/2009. Mr Athanasios said in a speech that, in any case, certain provisions were put forward which are a little more declining. I will only stand by a provision which refers to the disruption of a common peace. In its basic provisions, Article 189 states in the first indent: 'Whoever participates in a public meeting of crowds who, with united forces, commit violence is punished by imprisonment of up to two years'. By imposing at least two years of age. Firstly, the years of imprisonment, deprivation of the freedom of sentence are not candy. Secondly, in the process that we have seen, as has been done so far, beyond the fact that all the legal world has turned against these provisions, there is a real reality. The following was created: People who participated in the mobilisations were driven cumulatively to prosecutors with charges because they wore a handkerchief to be covered for health reasons by the chemicals. In other words, a 'principle of indictees' was created, so I would say, on the basis of these provisions, and it goes without saying that these provisions must be abolished. I'll finish with some things that have been said today. What did Mr. Theodorakis say to us today? Just like Mr. Mitsotakis yesterday. Just like Mr. Samaras and Mr. Venizelos a few days ago. In other words, the government must be serious about accepting the pressures of the lenders, receiving funding. However, she retreats extra burdens for pensioners, workers, labour rights, and society itself. The common line of New Democracy, PASOK and River leads to a real political solution: their merger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Skuma. Mrs Dani Jeka - Kostopoulou followed by Mrs Anagnostopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u289	Georgiadis where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u290	Hello?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u291	Before Mrs. Anagnastopoulou, it's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u292	I don't have your name, Mr. Georgiadis. I'm not questioning you. I just haven't been informed. All right, you'll take the floor. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u293	It's okay. Let my colleague take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u294	Please, Mrs. Jeka. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the final straight for the resolution of the draft law on the penitentiary system. It is a very important bill that attempts to give a breath of humanity, to lay the foundations in order to address the miserable conditions in the penitentiary institutions. Most of us in one way or another are talking about these terrible conditions. What does that actually mean? It means in many cases cells without heating, minimal square and virtually non-existent care. In short, it means a penitentiary system which does not respect basic human rights and has as its sole objective avenue to avenge and not contribute to social reintegration. A few elements, although they have already been mentioned many times in this meeting, can give us a good picture of this reality. Today, in prisons with a capacity of nine thousand five hundred people, 12 thousand prisoners are stacked. In Greece about a thousand prisoners, namely one out of twelve, are sentenced to life, a record number for a European Union country. For all the above, the European Court of Human Rights has prejudicially fined Greece, and for the same reason a large number of sentences are pending. It is precisely in this situation that this bill comes to an answer. Just to show that the existing penitentiary system is, unfortunately, only euphemistically penalised and, in fact, it is to worsen the detention conditions of the detainees, to make it difficult for them to retire and ultimately contribute to their relapse. If we want a penitentiary system which, on the one hand, respects the dignity and rights of the detainees and, on the other hand, aims at effective penitentiary and social reintegration, we must at least - even now - cover in the first instance the gaps and shortcomings that have accumulated over so many years. So this bill is simply the first step towards the humanisation of the penitentiary, a penitentiary system that should be fundamentally worthy of a favoured democratic society. More steps will certainly have to be taken in this direction, namely, the real respect for human rights. Not only are we talking about an extreme bill, but instead we are talking about a bill that lays the foundations for defending guaranteed democratic rights within a rule of law. On the basis of the above and the draft law, the following important measures are introduced, inter alia: The first article abolishes Type III prisons, a type of disciplinary prison for more punishment within the prison itself. This is a regulation which has nothing to do with prison or so-called'security', but aims to reduce the rights of certain detainees and ultimately to eliminate them. Also, the bill introduces a radical change in how the minor offender is treated. In essence, the detention of minors outside minimum cases and penalties are replaced by reformist and educational measures. The release of vulnerable groups, such as older people, patients and people with severe disability, is also encouraged. This provision does not only contribute to decongestion of prisons, but is directed towards a rule of law which does not mean keeping people in situations of abuse. In the same direction, the amendment tabled for the abolition of the so-called "collages". This provision, imposed in 2009, was aimed solely at terrorising the world of movements and providing more preoccupation for the savage repression of protests. I would remind you that the regulations of this law were criticised by the overwhelming majority of the scientific community for constitutionality, while they proved to be completely ineffective in practice in the direction of any guaranteeing social peace. In view of the above, this bill is a set of institutional interventions with clear democratic symbolism that has multiple recipients at the same time. He has the prisoners, their families, staff and society as a whole. It is a bill that actually puts another logic that tries to humanize rather than anger, invest in reintegration rather than fear. In spite of all its importance, however, in recent days we have witnessed once again the unfolding of a far-right rhetoric which is more reminiscent of darkness despite the spirit of a progressive and democratic European society. On the basis of the same logic, it is said that this draft law strengthens an insecurity or lawlessness regime. Although specific political forces have the privilege of speaking in the name of these words, let us even reverse their notion and think: Is it not an iniquity to violate international provisions and minimum human rights? Or is it not the unacceptable conditions prevailing in prisons that contribute to the relapse of many prisoners and ultimately to insecurity? Or is it still not the implementation of a series of tough policies that intensifies the insecurity of more parts of Greek society? It is precisely this alloy of political perceptions that has led to this situation by the penitentiary system, but much worse that reproduces and strengthens social exclusion and leads to the incorporation into the society of a climate of fear and terror. This bill therefore hierates dignity and human rights and is a first strong message, a message to those who in the previous period have denounced the human existence not only of the prisoners but of the entire parts of Greek society. It is well known that most prisoners are the most affected part of the consequences of social inequality and in many cases constitute the victim of criminalisation of poverty itself. Before we get to the point of treating the causes of social deprivation or violation in general, however, we have to find the formulas for as much humanisation as possible of our penitentiary system. This essentially attempts to do this bill, which is why it is important to discuss it in its essence, because, as has been said, it opens a window of dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Dana Jeka. Mr Charalambos Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Madam President. Then I said what I said yesterday, and I did not have time to develop it, because of the working hours, I shall refer to two amendments. The first amendment is a ministerial amendment concerning paragraph 3a of Article 282. I think, Minister - and I said yesterday - that this amendment is a little photographic, except that it has an vague one. I would explain that the restrictive conditions of 283 A, as you say, may be imposed when the accused in practice was promoted by reasons associated with his status as a relevant or a contract. I understand the concept of familiar. It's a concept that runs our right, and the Civil and Criminal. The notion of the contract, however, can be the subject of abusive exercise or rather abusive invoking, because everyone can claim to be coexistent with someone and you understand the problems that will be created in the sense of the contract, what abuse can be created. So the concepts had to be firm. If you wanted to do so, you could only confine yourself to the relative or say about blood relatives with a straight line or a slope up to a certain degree, which is not done. It is unfortunate that Articles 231 and 232 of the Criminal Code, referred to in the explanatory statement by the Minister only to strengthen the feasibility of this provision, are invoked. Why am I saying that? Because Articles 231 and 232 of the Criminal Code, ladies and gentlemen, concern the suffering of a criminal, i.e. when one is familiar and one of his relevant criminals, then he may not give up. That is the notion that relatives should not be handed over. But that means here that someone else is doing the deed. It's third to the act and it's coming to cover for him. He doesn't have to expose him. This is completely different from the regulation, which is introduced, because the regulation covers the one who is being criminalised. When I say "criminal" whether it's a crime or a felony, it doesn't matter. As far as the other amendment with the hoodiers is concerned, I have just said one example. This is not a specific offence. What kind of offense is it? We have a course and a man is involved in the course of a hooded man, but he is not committing a crime. If this is punished, as punished in too many European countries, it is called a peculiar offence. So only participation in a hooded course is punished. We in our Criminal Law have no such arrangement. Therefore, the regulation that has been introduced into our Criminal Code since 2009 and which has been applied normally without problems is: If two or more people carry out an act of unfairness, for example, two people go and do a damage, break a window and one of the two has a hood, it is only severely punished by the perpetrator who has no hood. What's the problem? Why should someone wear a hood and not be punished a little harder? Because it's not a felony or a felony. These are both felonies. It's just a heavier act of the crime. A maximum prison sentence is five years and one case and another, but the difference is at the minimum. After all, we need to know that those who participate in marches or gatherings participate in order to claim individual and social rights, labour claims, to disseminate ideas and principles. It is not for them to engage in disasters and plundering. I therefore do not see the point, Minister, because it must not be subject to stricter criminal treatment by someone who commits a crime and wears a hood. It's clear. Even at the latest you should withdraw this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mrs Anagnostopoulos has the floor and Mr Adonis Georgiadis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u299	You exaggerated Mr. Georgiadis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u300	We'll take it alternately. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Madam President. I also spoke yesterday, but I heard a lot, and I would like to add two things. I won't even cover the time you give me. All this debate that has been taking place since yesterday at the outset and today on the articles of the Anti-Population, both Settlement and not, especially from Potami and from PASOK, has an intense fragrance of authoritarianism, an authoritarianism which is a alloy of traditional right-wing rhetoric, covered by the New Democracy, with a mixture of neoliberal falsity. In other words, we have a strange alloy of authoritarianism, which is trying to cover it many times with various wordings. I will give three examples only. With regard to the release and the house arrest of disabled people with serious disabilities, all the arguments for its greatest part are not the sense of imprisonment as a punishment for deprivation of freedom but of the preservation of human rights, but above all the avenges of punishment. At the heart of the speeches by many of the colleagues, particularly the New Democracy, I saw one thing, the return of the death sentence. That's what I saw. The second example is the 'Court of Cousins'. The ‘Cultivate’ was passed in 2009 after the insurrection of December 2008. This law is first and foremost succeeded against the young. It reminds me of the law on tentism, the one that enlarges the generations' gap, the one that considers what is different and alive, that is, young people - different and because of the background and because of the way they handle the speech, etc. - as necessarily dangerous. Only authoritarian attitudes consider young people to be dangerous from the outset. Because hood doesn't wear a 50, especially a young man wears a hood. As far as the third example is concerned, I have heard from the speaker from the river that the terms 'conservation' and 'unjustice' are constantly repeated. I will not even say in parentheses that this government happens to have a Minister of Justice than the most recent university students who have written, have a huge literature behind them, that is to say, they do not have to negotiate with anyone or do anything else, since they have written before they enter the government. So at least a little respect for the spiritual products that some people give us should be given. But let's leave that. So the Minister is accused of immunity, lawlessness, etc. Because - and I repeat it several times - I am a historian, we need to know how we use the conditions in this Parliament. The terms ‘union’ and ‘justice’ refer to authoritarian periods. Finally, I would like to say something about the term 'laicism', which everyone repeats in here. Parliament must produce and think and - we must not talk about this, about genitals and where we are putting them - and talk a little bit seriously. Or a party is divided into groups that each group does what it wants - as we accuse many times - and so it cannot be populist in fact or is leading with a mass behind it. We have to decide in here that we do not use the terms - when we use them - to play on televisions. The Greek people also listen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u302	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u303	Thank you very much, Madam President. I shall start with the latter, Mrs Maij-Weggen, who has given us the suggestion of how the conditions should be used. I heard her say - and I confess I was surprised - for the 2008 uprising. What uprising? In 2008 - if you want to talk about the terms - we had incidents from well-known worms, who even hijacked the stores they burned. And you remember the shoppers chased the merchandise found later in Albania - if you remember - and the shoppers went to Albania to find the stolen goods. What uprising, ma'am? What uprising? The fires in Athens and the destruction of citizens' property by some hoodmen - like those you are acquitted today and mocking - are rebellion? And you're coming to tell us about the terms? And this goes on entirely. We will soon remember the work of George Orwell '1984'. Mrs Constantopoulos came yesterday and said she did not allow us - she says - to use the term 'lathonian' in the Chamber. But first of all, Madam President, who said to Mrs Constantopoulou that she has the right to tell us what words to use and which are not? We didn't know we put a bastard in our lives, Mrs. Constantopoulou. But let's go on a little bit, because this is where you're going to drive us crazy. Mrs Catrivanu says that we cannot call them 'lathing immigrants' because they are human beings. Yes, sir. Aren't you telling me the smuggler's animal? Should we call the smuggler an irregular trader to be happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u304	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u305	You're not telling me, the smuggler, what is he? Is that an animal? Should we call him an irregular passenger? The smuggler who secretly reads from next door, call him an irregular reader, to be happy? All this is a deep hypocrisy, because you're nothing but absolute hypocrites. You're supposed to be interested in immigrants. Mr Micheloannakis also made a hunger strike - you remember - in the Constitution to get political asylum then the Syrian refugees. Now why don't you give everyone asylum and Mr. Sakellaridis took it back? But since I'm talking about hypocrisy, I want to come to the major -- which is why I came to talk about, I didn't start a card -- because I was really surprised. I have heard Mr Kotsia's speech from Evrytania. I didn't know him. I happened to hear his speech. I'm surprised! What you've done is immeasurable. You told us how much you honour Paul Bakoyannis' memory - obviously because you are Evrytan and want to get the votes of Paul Bakoyannis, otherwise it is not explained - and at the same time you are voting - to take the personal speech if you are questioning me - to free his killer - take note of a detail - which has never been apologised. So I'll come to Mrs. Anagonstopoulou now, because here's the big one. He's talking about the death penalty and the punishing mood. I beg your pardon, Minister, to accept - and that is the right thing - that our system is a penitentiary system, is a system of prison. I imagine that's what we agree with. What's a conscientious thing to say? I did a crime, the state managed to explain to me that what I did was wrong, I realized that what I did was wrong and because I realized it was wrong, I have the favorable provisions of the state. Let me get this straight. Has one of you ever heard from Mr. Xeros of any suspicion that he made a mistake that he killed, Mr. Col. Paul Bakoyannis? Did you hear him, Mr. Colleague, say how sad he is that he killed Paul Bakoyannis, whom you honor? Oh, no! So what are you doing? And you vote for Paul Bakoyannis to be released on the one hand and for Paul Bakoyannis to be killed, who if he could today would kill Paul Bakoyannis again. So how can this be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u306	It can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u307	The 'cannot' due to disability - let's go to the next hypocrisy - is hypocritical. Listen to why you're hypocrites. I'm going beyond the Minister's statement. First of all, he can't, because Paul Bakoyannis is dead and it's hard to kill him again. But let's go and analyze it a little bit more. He said the Minister - after he said his statement was unfortunate - that it was the state that was left blind. Is it the state's fault Savvas Xeros made a bomb that he did to kill fellow citizens, which broke up on him and stayed blind? Is it the state? Is it the state's fault he wanted to kill his people and the bomb popped in his face? If ever possible! Of course it's not the state's fault. It's his fault. And if the bomb hadn't popped into his face, he would have killed some others and then killed others and then killed others! That's what's going to happen. But let me tell you one more thing. Mr. Xeros says he's disabled and will be out of prison. So, since he doesn't have the remorse, from his home, his terrorist ideas can be passed on to others? The experience of how you make bombs can go through to others? So I tell you that Savvas Xiros, consistent with his ideology, will continue his criminal activity, although disabled, from his home. If one of the things he's going to do now kill others, who's to blame? Is it not Mrs Anagnostopoulou's fault that she likes the accuracy of the terms? Have you ensured that, Minister? Because these are the majors. And I come to the last. Minister, your amendment to Mrs Chakalu's son's lady girlfriend - I don't know her name, Mrs Eve, so it is written by newspapers, Mr Eve - that goes beyond any previous photographic device. You're at "MEGA", they tell you that Mrs. Tsakalou refuses to be released because she does not accept to be released unless Mrs. Eve and you in the air say "I will legislate to release Mrs. Eve". And then you come to the House and you legislate. You're a university professor, too. I heard before that it's honorable that you're a professor. You know, I don't want to repeat the Bismarck's "Good Three, Lost The Frog" and here you have tens or fifteen, so you understand where we're going, that's on the rocks and beyond. But, anyway, we're actually going now. Now, as a professor, can you tell me, Minister, from your academic experience, a minister in any country in the Western world who has announced a legislative initiative for a particular person on television? Have you ever heard of that before? And that gives you laurels because of your academic career? Well, not to be fooled. You're arrogant hypocrites. The only reason you bring this bill is because you want to serve the extreme left. And closing - just for seconds - I want to say a good word for you. I mean, Minister, I strongly disagree with SYRIZA's youth. SYRIZA’s youth today issued an outdated announcement against the Government that the police have entered the Rectorship. I would like to congratulate the fact that, after eighteen days, you were a little difficult to decide, I understand - to say that she has to do her job and get the police in to release the Rectory. I understand that this has upset SYRIZA's youth who saw SYRIZA's government put the police in the Prefecture, finally arresting hoodmen, taking them to justice, which was washed with chemically against them. I remember what was happening in the House when Kikilias was Minister and the police were throwing chemicals. I imagine many fellow Members remember SYRIZA's transparent preachers about how these chemicals harm health. You remember that. Now, as I said yesterday, they are obviously other chemicals and they do not harm. For all this, however, both on chemicals and on the use of violence toward the coconuts and on the fact that you have entered the Republican Republic and on the fact that you have been arrested, I would like to congratulate you very much. Even if you're late, slowly, you're on the good road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u308	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u309	Wait a minute. Can we calm down a little bit? Mr. Georgiadis, you spoke for seven to seven minutes, please. Mr Kotsia, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u310	Those who sent Mr Bakoyannis to exile to defend humanitarian values and democratic rights are present today honorers. They offend Mr. Bakoyannis' memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u311	False Revolutionary! He's not a "master", he's a late man.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u312	They are poaching in his memory and not those we defend what it really was. Mr. Bakoyannis, therefore, has been using it quite a bit by the extreme right here, he has fought in humanistic values, democratic values and has fought against the values of Mr. Georgiadis. So they get his memory twitched.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u313	There are relatives in here. You don't know what you're saying. Represent the Eurydans. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u314	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u315	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Georgiadis, what personal? What did he refer to you? Unless you recognized yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u317	He referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Georgiadis, did you recognize yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u319	It's a disgrace to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u320	They remember the Evrytans!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u321	Did he send Bakoyannis to exile?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Kikilia, please! Mr. Georgiadis, I will give you the floor for a minute only if you recognized yourself in the report that Mr. Kotsias has made. He didn't refer to your name!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u323	He mentioned it by name to me! He said 'Mr Georgiadis'! Listen, sir. Since we do not know each other well, my father on the junta was in prison and I was born in 1972. Understand? So, please, very much when you refer to people you don't know, you'll be threefold careful. So I'll be right back. So what are you going to vote for Paul Bakoyannis's killer, whom you're so into? To be released without apologies to either his family or his reputation, or will you vote to stay inside the prison, since he has so far not recognized Paul Bakoyannis' personality, which he supposedly honors? But you're doing it all for votes, Mr. Kotsia, for no other reason!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u324	All right, Mr. Georgiade, good! I would ask the House to calm down. Mr Mavragans Nikolaos has the floor. He is the only parliamentary representative who has not been posted so far. Mr Mavragani, I inform you that under the Rules of Procedure you are entitled to fourteen minutes, protology and dentex together. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u325	If my fellow Members are noble enough to let me speak, I shall begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u326	Please, be quiet. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u327	Madam President, we have put ourselves at the forefront of this piece of legislation, and that is where we made references to the articles. We've been highlighting our differences. We were glad to see that the Minister cured these state-of-the-art imperfections, so he gave the light to this piece of legislation. Since 25 January, there has been a shift in Greece. The demand for this shift was in the direction of humanism, which had to go through our politics and society. I heard in the speech by colleagues to refer to those "funny" days, where with tear gas some police groups perched simple citizens who put their breasts in front of the mud of the Memorandum. So today they took this and made it a flag to show that in any case the state should behave in a similar way today. I think they have not understood what has happened to society, and why exactly did society turn its backs back on them. It was an absolute request, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Minister, to turn to humanity and to settle with the principle of analogy and the penitentiary system and the criminal system, because there cannot be humanism in a la carte. Therefore, particular attention should certainly be paid to both minors and actual dependants and disability and to the area of sensitive personal data in relation to DNA. And that was right. We are pleased to welcome the amendments to Article 2, which were indeed sharp, which were crucial, in the direction of not stopping the creation of the penalty but continuing to do so in a different way and, in any case, by electronic surveillance. We are also pleased to welcome the fact that the conditions laid down in Article 100(3) exist and are placed in relation to the additional conditions that the public prosecutor may make for the creation of this penalty. We also welcome the fact that the article on the retrospective force of favourable measures is amended, and the benefits in the event of disability conditions, where it was contrary to reasonable anti-discrimination, and which would give benefits that should never have been detained, because they did not at that time have the conditions. After all, Madam President, we also accept this bill as a whole, because it is moving in the right direction and we will be voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. Mrs Gennamas has asked for the floor in order to give a second answer. Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor for six minutes with a small tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Madam President. As far as the amendments accepted by the Minister are concerned, I would like to say that we disagree with the provisions of No 3772/2009 on the hood, because they criminalise clothing, without protecting against physical damage, damage to foreign property or unnecessarily assault, which must be persecuted and punished either the perpetrator wearer or near black T-shirts or anything else. We condemn the violence from wherever it comes, wherever it is directed. We condemn and isolate the violence of the well-known hoodiers who are struggling with peaceful mobilisation of citizens and putting public security at risk. We had not been placed so far, waiting to see the government's attitude. We fully disagree with the final approach to the issue. What does the Minister actually say, ladies and gentlemen? He says yes, clothing can be criminalised in certain offences. What criteria are excluded from all other than the robbery? Unfortunately, you are ideologically attributes to a photographic arrangement in the New Democracy. We disagree both with the prototype and the cape. Bring in, Minister, the comprehensive reform of the Criminal Code, which you have in your drawer, to abolish all the photographic provisions, and that is where you will find us. Because something was mentioned earlier in this Chamber, I would like to remind you that all the draft reforms in justice and not just in the penal and penal system began in 2009, at the beginning of the day by Mr Kastanides and then by Mr Papaioannou. I say this because not all the previous people did the same, as it sounded a little earlier. As regards the amendment to the DNA collection procedure, I would like to say that we have very serious reservations, given that there are currently pending cases that have been brought to justice and are based precisely on this procedure. If this amendment is passed, fate as a more favourable provision will also understand the pending trials and persecutions, and serious issues will arise in the criminal treatment of offenders. There is therefore a risk, Minister, with the regulation, that the specific categories of accused persons should be given forgiveness. That is why we reiterate that it does not fit here in fragmentary, hasty arrangement. I'm coming to day-to-day legal corrections. We insist on introducing exceptions to serious crimes for the incarceration of minors, such as terrorism, criminal organisation, sexual offences, rape, which you have almost added. And I say almost, because with a sad surprise, we read that it will only be the one who raped people under the age of 15. So if someone raped a 16-year-old girl, did they do so? The minor rapist of a sixteen-year-old girl, the state will mock him with reform measures? I do not want to say in this Chamber a phrase which is called in these cases and which is deeply insulting us, but I really wonder what humanism and what sensitivity such regulation is based on? Otherwise, as far as bracelets are concerned, which give you a margin of manoeuvre and improvements today, I am sorry, but they remain a dream of summer or rather spring night. It will be safer, fairer and more sincere to add a transitional provision, which will put these arrangements into effect when the geoenterprise system is actually implemented. Overall and in the form of comments from all of the proceedings in these two weeks. Observation one. In Greece, the reform of the penitentiary system is doomed to always find obstacles to party opportunistic exploitation and ideologies. Sadly, once again! Observation 2. The government, with this bill, opens the doors of prison, not to try to solve the real problems of many within them, but to get out of the few and specific ones. Observation 3. We don't need any patches. Neither the abolition of type III prisons nor the horizontal mass dismissals, even dangerous prisoners, solve the problems of prisons. At some point, ladies and gentlemen, we must talk about a reform strategy in the field of Greek justice. The state must go ahead with reforming justice based on three pillars. Reform of legislation, completion of electronic justice and promotion of alternative methods of dispute resolution. Promote new family law, bring new codes of law, new criminal law, new penitentiary for better detention conditions, safe coexistence for detainees and penitentiary staff, upgrading infrastructure and ultimately a new law. No more vengeful and inhumane criminal punishment. This reform of Greek justice is a national bet, ladies and gentlemen, and goes beyond party and ideological lines. Let's finally try it. I think it's worth it. Let this opportunity not be lost again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. The President of Parliament has the floor, Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou and the last speaker will be SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mrs Catrivan. Happy birthday, Madam President, for your nominal holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u331	Thank you for your blessings. I would like to ask you, Minister, in my capacity as the previous one, of the person responsible for justice, transparency and human rights for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group throughout the period during which SYRIZA was a strong opposition. I would like to tell you that the script you are giving as Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights in these few weeks of governance is a sign of scripture that justifies dreams, justifies the values and principles of the Left, justifies the struggles we have given throughout the previous period to protect and shield the core of the rule of law, the social rule of law and democracy. Every initiative of yours and every intervention of yours is an addition to this wall of defending human rights and democracy. And as a member of the SYRIZA, and as a member of the SYRIZA, in the previous period, I really want to give you what you deserve and which is your responsibility. And I would like to express my great satisfaction at the fact that the legislative initiatives of the Government at this time have all been initiatives that have dealt with the Committee on Public Administration and Justice. They were initiatives towards restoring rights and guarantees that had been shredded and salted. I'm glad we don't discuss financial bills one after another. I am pleased to be discussing values and principles. I am pleased that you do not hesitate to say that the victims of the Dictator must be justified after fifteen years of irrevocable decision. I am pleased that you do not hesitate in the same way to say that democracy, yes, is not afraid, and in the plenary there must be three hundred Members of Parliament. And I am pleased that those who are most disturbed are those who evacuated and ejected as springs when we said that the word 'death immigrant' is a word racist, which should not have a place in this Chamber. And the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy was launched under No 1, Mr Mitsotakis and the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy under No 2, Mr Georgiadis. They claim not to be censored. They claim to repeat this profoundly insulting human dignity word. It was time to restore some minima, some minor in the penitentiary system, because the situation of the penitentiary system strongly offends the principles of democracy and fundamental human rights. The situation of the penitentiary system was deeply undemocratic, inhuman and exterminational. And they were revealing some speeches in the Chamber that, with this treatment, they attempted to balance the abolition of the death penalty. I cannot recall that a former Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and a former Minister for Conflicts of PASOK and New Democracy and LAOS, the former New Democracy Parliamentary Representative is one of the triumphants of reinstatement of the death penalty. Minister, I think that this message that goes through with these legislative initiatives for the protection of rights and freedoms is a message for citizens not to be afraid, not to be terrorized, not to give in to terrorism and not to indulge in terrorism, which is systematically attempted by actions, both on grounds and on projects and on a propagandaist approach, which is aimed at them by controlled and established media. A great deal has been said about terrorism to an extent and to a extent which, in my view, is a call to remember the victims of terrorist acts, the bones of which - many of them - will tremble from the appeals made. But terrorism is an act, when it is committed in a way or to an extent or under conditions which are likely to seriously harm a country or an international organisation, in order to seriously intimidate a population or to illegally force a public authority or an international organisation to carry out any act or to seriously harm or destroy the fundamental constitutional policies, economic structures of a country or an international organisation. And we had the opportunity to demonstrate and have had the opportunity to see the ordinary citizen that the monumental rule has been completely terrorist, destructive to the structures of the country, to destroy its fundamental constitutional and economic structures, to violate the respective structures of the international organizations to which the country belongs and clearly in favour of the illegal coercive of the population, the citizens, the workers, the unemployed, the strikers, to submit. What Memorandum Governance represented was the rule of law, namely the rule of law, and the promotion of the Memorandum of Understanding. Why, over time, invoking terrorism has been the most effective pretext for violating human rights and freedoms, a violation in which citizens themselves are called to condone by the state of fear and also by the threat of being regarded as likers of terrorism. Invoking terrorism, such as the one that has been done again and again in this Chamber, is the key that opens the door to state arbitrary, for instance, as an allegedly superior good. The most authoritarian forces, conscious of the fact that those who are willing to grant their vital freedom for a little temporary security, do not deserve either freedom or security, strive to convince citizens that they are at risk in order to give up the fundamental rights and guarantees of the rule of law, accept to monitor their phone conversations, monitor their online communications, record their movements, move their personal data from service to service, investigate without warranting their homes, be tried without receiving any legal cause and without access to a lawyer from special courts and military committees and be closed to torture camps and to new Guantánamos, as they have hoped to be those prisons of type III. But it is well known, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, that fear has gone to the other camp. They fear those who are rampant against a rule of protection for citizens and their rights. They fear those who are shaking that the control of public debt will raise their crimes and set aside disgrace contracts in which they have been made. Moreover, it is no accident who undertake to be terrorized by a mediation step and who undertake to confuse any initiative that moves towards the restoration of democratic legitimacy and the rule of law. A lot of people spoke, Minister, of photographic provisions. Since we have been through a next parliamentary term, I will submit to the Minutes - to be in the Minutes of this parliamentary term - one of the things that happened in the previous period of the Committee on Justice, Transparency and Human Rights of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. It is about a hundred and forty-four pages, it is said: "The Black Bible of Shame" and has a blossom of photographic provisions, amendments of the last minute, arrangements to cover up serious offences, abuses against the public, including the felonies of "SIEMENS", which you rushed to cover and which are inextricably linked to public debt and its indebtedness. It also contains the felonies and economic offences of banks and bankers, which illegally borrowed parties, but also the felonies and offences of governors of appointed public agencies and businesses, who have cheated and slapped public enterprises and then enjoyed tropological immunity. [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned argument, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This happened not when you, Minister, Minister of Justice, were not when SYRIZA ruled but when they were in the beginning of PASOK - New Democracy and LAOS and then New Democracy - PASOK and DIMAR - and then New Democracy and PASOK, desperately struggling to serve themselves and others and to protect themselves and protect themselves. From what? It is a matter of justice, which they are now invoking and which they are referring to as, in fact, in the proper independent democratic function.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u332	Why don't you bring law to abolish these? Don't just keep talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u333	Minister, the experience of December 9, 2014 in this Chamber was traumatic when the House debated a young hunger strikeer who claimed the self-evident right to be able to get the permission the law recognized him, having passed to the university, although a prisoner. It was a young prisoner, who was a little missed in previous government, wanting to pass the message not legality, because this had forgotten it and written out every time he closed the House to protect some of the submarines' pleas in law, to pass the message not of non-violence but rather to pass the message of compliance, the message of discipline, the message of subjection to what was the most authoritarian perceptions and the most constitutional logic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great responsibility for this government and the parliamentary groups which support it to inspire society, to keep the restoration and reproach, to encourage citizens who are no longer afraid and who are not terrified and who are not bent and who are not inclined and who are not inclined and who are not inclined and who are not inclined to swallow the manipulative reality of propaganda, who some haters are trying to feed them either through the House or through the middle-speakers and screens. It is a great responsibility for the government and for the groups that support it, to maintain and to inject even more hope and to justify the trust and hope which is simple and generous - it is a word that you do not know about - the citizens are giving us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u334	Isn't the bell ringing now? Samara's the only one who beats!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u335	It is our responsibility to incorporate the new example and model of democratic governance as well as democratic parliamentary function.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u336	Will you do us a seminar, Mrs. Konstantopoulou? Good, you're gonna teach us about democracy now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u337	It is also our responsibility to give future and perspective to those for whom some have secured, with EUR 32 000, a debt, because every baby born - with the management not done by the previous government - owes EUR 32 000.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u338	You had a cabotage and you were closing factories!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u339	I imagine we won't hear that it's his parents' fault, in the sense of levelling and total refusal to take responsibility. This bill, Minister and ladies and gentlemen, is a minimum of shielding rights and freedoms, restoring the social rule of law and the right of struggles, those who have remained faithful to the basic principles and freedoms, which promote not only the left but the democratic social forces, the social movements, the radical movement of the citizens who are currently reaping and in which the Greek reality is taking the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u340	Time isn't there, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u341	Madam President, has the bell broken? You're very democratic! Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u342	With real relief I will vote in favour of the bill, and I will tell you good strength following the initiatives of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and good power to all of us, because from our own power the citizens of this country, whom some wanted to indignate, turn them into political victims, but the citizens themselves have decided that they will take their lives in their hands, that they will not live half but give their contents of life and make their trueness unbelievable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u343	Madam President, thank you. Mrs Catrivanos Vassiliou, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u344	I'll be short. I know this is the end of the process, don't worry. I will begin with wishes for the President. Happy birthday and good and strong! Before I say a few words about the bill, I too must express on my part that the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and Mr Georgiadis is shocking, that they should strive in the Greek Parliament to record the term 'immigrant' in the Minutes. I won't talk about the definition of being a smuggler or anything. There is a dreadful deception of the term 'lathronist' and Europe uses the term'man without paper' or 'irregular'. I would remind you, however, that when Mr Muiznieks was here in Athens, we had a meeting of MPs who were around Strasbourg and there there was a struggle between the Members of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, because the term ‘lathonian’ was used again. So when an attempt was made in that Chamber to explain to the Commissioner, the cause of the argument and the stigma and deportation that the term "lathonical immigrant" has said: "I will ask the Greek MPs and the Greek Parliament not to use racist expressions, which are allegedly mentioned again and again in the Greek Parliament". So I move, once again, beyond our claim that racist conditions should not be heard here and that the European Commissioner for Human Rights to the Greek Parliament should not hear racist terms from any party. Of course I am not saying that, at the moment, we are not talking about illegal immigrants - I repeat - but we are not even talking about immigrants, about the waves that are coming, because the main issue is refugees, and that is what is being circumvented. I will now proceed with the bill. I would like to say, Minister, that I am pleased that the two amendments we have tabled have been accepted both for the withdrawal of the horn and for the change in the way the DNA is received. I think that changes are really important and are consistent with the spirit of the bill and the protection of rights. I would like to say, of course, that the conditions, as we have proposed in our amendments, were more complete and correct for the reasons I have developed. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] I understand the need for a co-existence. I'm not going to say 'cooper'. But I will say, for DNA, that it is very important that what is being introduced at the moment is that there is the presence of a public prosecutor and technical consultant always in receiving DNA as a greater guarantee and protection. We think it's important. To finish with this: I would also like to say that this bill is an important basis. All the institutions have said so. If this first intervention was not made in prisons to deal with the overpopulation, new structural changes would not be possible. In addition to the overpopulation, however, it is important for the health of people, for the elderly, for the disabled, for the ill, for the drug addicts, for the minors. They are very basic and important elements in supporting these people in a logic that we have for prison and security, which says support for man and his reintegration. This helps no relapse and no crime recycling again. We are, of course, waiting for the next legislation. This bill is a base now, a start. We have all said that we need support structures, for the world outside, for the minors, for those who leave prisons and in prisons, it needs a change of circumstances. We know that. We're aware of this thing. We need to strengthen alternative detention measures, strengthen rural prisons, prevent baby groups. We've got a lot to do with each other. And I think we will move on with a spirit of change, defence of democracy and rights, brought by SYRIZA with a bill. We are also waiting for the next bills in this direction, for citizenship, for the cohabitation pact, for the next bills of democratisation, for breath, for the defence of rights and for the relief of the world and for an opportunity to live truly more fully, proudly and humanly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. The floor has been asked by the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. If there is another rapporteur who wishes to be second-guessed and has not been second-guessed, he will state it so that we can be slowly completed. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Madam President. What I would like to make clear from the outset is that in the Greek Parliament there is a large number of Members - officials who most believe in Europe, in European institutions and in European culture. In recent years we have become accustomed to understanding that Europe means certain rules, including some economic regulations, with which we must comply and observe them, even though this means austerity or the need to adapt to many areas of social life and we are trying to adapt to this European and economic situation. It seems hours of hours that we do not understand that Europe means something else. The European Convention on Human Rights prohibiting torture, inhumane and degrading behaviour refers to citizens who may be detainees, may be perpetrators of crimes and may have or may have not regretted what they have done. It does not matter to the European institutions. It doesn't matter about the rule of law. It doesn't matter about globalism. The obligations of the rule of law and the obligations of respect for human rights and principles are independent of the weakness or, if you like, the cruelty of the person, which may at some point be submitted under the umbrella of the institutions. That is why our country, precisely because in some cases it does not propose the need to implement the institutions relating to freedoms and rights, is in a difficult position. And so we have the eleven recent convictions, on the basis of Article 3 of the European Convention, of infringements involving torture, inhumane and degrading behaviour. For the same reason, we have the public declaration at the expense of our country by the European Commission against Torture. I have had the opportunity to remind you that at the moment in our country, there are again representatives for a new visit by the European Commission against the tortures and we are waiting for a new crisis, which we hope will not be unfavourable again for our country. Of course, we should not need the European argument. The Constitution, our culture and the rule of law should be sufficient to avoid any behaviour and any institutional development that could conflict with the highest rights. I hope that the bill, which I have had the honour of defending in this Chamber, contributes precisely to this culture and to this rule of law. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u347	Minister, in the direction of what you have said, to remind us that the international framework for the protection of human rights is one of the most sacred international obligations in the country. Over-legislative conventions for the protection of human rights are binding on us. It is very important to recall that the violation of such international obligations, namely the violation of human rights, is also one of the most serious offences a Member State can commit to international organisations such as the Council of Europe and the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u348	We have done so for years, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u349	The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn has asked for the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u350	Madam President, did the Minister not speak? After the Minister's speech, we vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u351	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u352	Madam President, I would like to wish from me and from us, the Golden Dawn, many years, many years, not only to the President but also to anyone who is called Zoe or Life. The prisons in Greece, the prisons in our country, are not the best we have to propose. But prisons are also one of ours, prisons show the culture that we have and the decline in which we are in. We're not proud of our prisons. But, Madam President, I should also like to address my fellow Members - prisoners are being convicted of penalties imposed by the courts. Do you know what it is? Judges impose a number of penalties, applying laws that we have passed. In other words, we are legislative power, we are the ones who are voting for laws, we are the ones who say what serious offences or less serious offences and what a penalty should be imposed. What's the judge doing? He's applying these orders we've given him. That's the one part. People are being tried, in prison. We said we weren't proud of what we've got. There are, as the Minister said, condemnations of our country of the way the penitentiary works in our country. But that is the one point. What, then, are we told by the courts that have convicted us? They call us "open the gates, take the gates and take everyone out"? So don't get there from one end to the other. There's also an intermediate route. If prisons were to function, I and II of the press, that is to say, if prisons were to function for the defendants and for the convicts, they could perhaps be taken, some measures could be taken to facilitate all sides, namely the sub-judicials - for which we said that the presumption of innocence has always been applicable - and the convicts. Minister, I understand that you want a lot to do, and you may be trying with the means you have at your disposal. Unfortunately, however, I am sorry to say this, but it is one of the same. The decongestion of prisons does not mean that we are opening the gates and horizontally now some people are coming out, regardless of whether the purpose for which the state and judges have been sent to prison has been achieved. The way we go, unfortunately, in a very short time, prisons will refill and we will have to bring another draft law for another decongestion. But, Minister, I would like to say in relation to the amendments tabled by the SYRIZA Members on 'Courager', that we have some objections. I mean, what do you mean, some of them? We have a lot of objections! Do you know why? We have not been able to understand why you are now abolishing the hood in a common peace, in unnecessarily physical damage, in serious physical damage and in foreign property damage, and the hood is indeed considered to be a prejudicial case when a robbery is being committed. Why is this differentiation? Is one crime of minor importance on the other? As I said yesterday, Minister, we believe that the hood shows a man who, unfortunately, is considered criminally perverse to us. Because, as we said, we all have the animal within us, and most of us are potential criminals, at any given moment, we may commit a crime, a serious crime. But there's in us and what's called remorse. However, the man wearing a hood to commit these offences, in advance, has made the decision of the unrepentant. And not only that, but it is also a man who may be involved in others instead of him, that is to say, a provocative. Who tells us that a man who carries out an unnecessarily physical damage, in a domestic peace disruption, will not enter a house in a place wearing a hood and no longer leave his own hands behind, but something else, just because he wants to involve some other people? We believe, Minister, that this amendment you have brought forward, or - and here I agree with Mr Vorides - should not be accepted, if you thought that this 'gullar', as it is said, is insulting our legal culture, then you should say that it does not apply to any of these acts and not just to one. Ladies and gentlemen, we appreciate the valuable efforts you have made. However, it is not enough to have the desired effect. That is why we will only vote on Article 1 and the article concerning the recruitment of staff in the penitentiary. As far as the other articles are concerned, we have our reservations and we shall also be voting time. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, is that always the case when someone talks? Madam President, I am sorry, but I would like to say something. You know, because I am new in Parliament - but not new at age - I have had a culture - let me say shock, because I see that when someone talks - and I am not just talking to myself but to any other colleague - everyone else thinks that at that time they can do anything in Parliament's Chamber. Otherwise, he's supposed to be watching each other. Finally, I am very afraid that here we come to speak and speak to just listen to our voice. I am very sorry about that, because it is also a sign of culture. So it is not just words or concepts to blame. Everyone, by his behavior, his way, his works and days, shows if he is civilized, shows whether he is a democrat, shows what he says and states he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u353	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn. At this point, and if there is no other fellow Member or Minister who wants to be seconded, I think we can move on. Is there a colleague who wants to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u354	That was a nice thing. So I think we have come to the end of the debate. I must tell you that it was really good for everyone who had asked to speak thanks to the Vice-Presidents but also to the Vice-President who sat last night until late in order to proceed with the list. And so we had forty-five speakers on the articles and thirteen on the table, as well as twenty-seven speakers on the top. All the parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs and several ministers spoke. So I think we can be very pleased, because the exercise of democracy is progressing well and with content. As we were told yesterday, it has been submitted - about two hours ago, perhaps a little more late - for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy Parliament. ‘In accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the undersigned Members shall request a roll-call vote on Articles 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 and on Amendments 43/5/9-4-2015 and 46/8/14-4-2015 to the bill: ‘Reforms of criminal provisions, repealing press detention stores and other provisions’. [[The request for roll-call vote referred to above shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[Insert the pubs. 379a]] They sign the request for a roll-call vote: Mitsotakis Kyriakos, Kikilis Vassilis, Athanasios Charalambos, Plakiotakis Ioannis, Georgiadis Adonnis, Vessopoulos Apostolos, Vorides Mavroudis, Stylis Georgios, Fortsakis Theodoros, Ausgeakis Leuteris, Vulture Sophia, Boukoros Christos, Pisakakis Anastasias, Kokodios Kostas, Georgios Georgios Georgios, Koschakis Timoles, Skrekas Kostas, Neos Alexandros, Kellas Christos, Bouras Thanasis, Mitarakis, Gikas Stephanos, Vagios Georgios Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u355	Madam President, are the Members here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u356	Wait a minute, Mr Gregorako, this is not yet the time to read the list to see if they are here. I know who's submitting the application as I should, something that never happened before, we didn't know who they submitted. And at one time, the MPs were already surprised to read, saying'resentees' and it was not nominal. You have a little patience, it'll all happen the way it should. The debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law will therefore be adjourned: ‘Reforms of criminal law, repealing the press detention shops and other provisions’, and we will vote separately on the articles in which there is no roll-call vote. We shall then be interrupting for ten minutes, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and voting on roll-call votes. In fact, I propose that we should not confuse the procedure, stop now and vote as a whole on those articles in which there is no request for roll-call vote - so it will be carried out by means of what is foreseen - and then proceed to the roll-call vote, which has been requested, after we have read the list and are present. I imagine the Members who request a roll-call vote will be present. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that as we have done the previous time that there have been amendments - it is clear that the amendments accepted are entirely relevant - and that you will be distributed the so-called 'inflatable' services of the bill, where amendments and legislative improvements have been included, so that everyone can see exactly what they are voting on and will all be done in a legitimate and democratic way. Therefore, the debate on the articles is adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u357	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u358	Mrs. Gerovali, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u359	I will speak for a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u360	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u361	Because there's a practical issue, because the MPs who wait to leave, lose a lot of flights...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u362	No, no! Everything will be done as it should, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u363	...if possible the roll-call vote may be preceded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u364	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u365	Mrs Görlach, it is a question of compacting them. That is why we are going to have the short break, the bill is distributed to you, and then the vote will take place in total. It's a few articles anyway. It's a dozen articles. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law is adjourned: 'Reforms of criminal provisions for the abolition of detention stores III and other provisions'. We interrupt for ten (10) minutes and then we will enter the voting procedure immediately. Please be back in ten minutes just because I'm putting the timer on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. I would like to inform you that we will hold the normal and roll-call vote together. I shall now read out the list of Members who have applied for a roll-call vote in order to see if the fifteen required to hold the roll-call vote are present. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to come and sit in the chairs for the procedure to be carried out. Mitsotakis Kyriakos. Here you go. Kikilias Vasilios. Here you go. Athanasios Charalambos. Here you go. Plakatakis John. Here you go. Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis. Here you go. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Borides Mavroudis. Here you go. Stylos George. Here you go. Fortsakis Theodores. Here you go. Imperial Eleftherios. Here you go. Sweeping Wisdom. Here. Bouquet Christos. Here you go. Prison Anastasios. Here you go. Kokodimos Konstantinos. Here you go. Georgios Georgios. Here you go. The fifteen Members were therefore filled. I had previously read the full list. Please do the services, because you have made a ranking for the old article and the new articles, has it been renumbered by the Ministry? I would ask the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to clarify this in order to make it clear in the roll-call vote. The articles you refer to are in the new numbering?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u367	According to the news.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u368	According to the new numbering. So you are talking about Article 1 and Article 3, which was a paragraph of Article 2, on Article 6, which was also a paragraph of Article 2, on Article 9, on the old Article 3, and on Article 12, which is the old Article 6. Deal? That's your request. I say that, in order to be clear about the procedure and what you are voting on. The new form of the bill has been distributed to all colleagues. There is, of course, a request for the amendments. These are not disputed as the ones mentioned, the 43/5/9-4-2015 and the 46/8/14-4-2015. The articles were the issue, because there has been a new numbering after very proper legislative improvement and intervention, and the articles had to be separated. For the roll-call vote Members are invited to the list by SYRIZA and Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy. In general, we have said that this procedure should be conducted with the secretaries of the House. Mr. Kefaliannis isn't here? Oh, no. So come on, Mr. Yoyaka. Those who accept the articles of the draft law and the amendments, according to what is called for, say 'NEI'. The non-acceptable articles of the draft law and the amendments are 'HO'. The voters are saying 'PARON'. I am starting with the articles on which no request for a roll-call vote has been tabled. Can the House accept the new Article 2, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u373	Article 2 is therefore accepted by a majority, as amended by the Minister of State, a minority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, who votes 'OH', Golden Dawn, voting 'APARS', the River, voting 'OH' and PASOK, voting 'OH'. Does this House accept the new Article 4 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u377	Article 4 is therefore accepted by a majority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Groups, voting 'OH', Golden Dawn, voting 'APARS' and the river that votes 'OH'. Is the new Article 5 accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u379	Article 5, therefore, is accepted by a majority, a minority of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, which votes 'PARS'. Is the new Article 7 accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u385	The new Article 7 is therefore accepted by a majority, by a majority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, voting for 'OH', Golden Dawn, voting 'PARS', the Potamos, voting 'OHS', the JRC, voting 'APPS' and the PASOK voting 'OH'. Can new Article 8 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u386	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u388	The new Article 8 is therefore accepted by a majority of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Groups, which votes for 'PARS' and for the River, which votes 'PARS'. These two are the minorities. Is the new Article 10, old Article 4, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u389	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u390	The new Article 10, old Article 4, therefore, is accepted by a majority, a minority of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, which votes 'PARA'. Can the new Article 11, old Article 5, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u391	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u392	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u394	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u395	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u396	The new Article 11, old Article 5, therefore, is accepted by a majority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Groups, voting for the Golden Dawn, voting for the 'PARS', the Pottom, voting 'HO', the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, and the PASOK, voting for 'PARS'. Is the new Article 13, old Article 7, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u398	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u402	The new Article 13, old Article 7, therefore, is accepted by a majority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Groups, voting for the Golden Dawn, voting for the 'PARS', the Pottom, voting for 'OHS', the JRC, voting for 'PARS' and the PASOK, voting 'OH'. Is the new Article 14, old Article 8, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u407	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u408	The new Article 14, old Article 8, therefore, is accepted by a majority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Groups, voting for the Golden Dawn, voting for the 'PARS', the Pottom, voting for 'OFF', the JRC, voting for 'PARS' and the PASOK, voting 'OFF'. Is the new Article 15, old Article 9, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u414	The new Article 15, old Article 9, therefore, is accepted by a majority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Groups, which declares ‘PARS’, the Golden Dawn, which states ‘PARS’, the River, which states ‘PARS’, the JRC, which declares ‘PARS’ and the PASOK, which states ‘PARS’. Is the new Article 16, old Article 10, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u418	Article 16 was therefore accepted by a majority of the New Democracy, Potamium and PASOK Parliamentary Groups, declaring ‘PARON’. Can new Article 17, old Article 11, as established?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u424	Article 17 has therefore been accepted by a majority, a minority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which states "PARS", the Golden Dawn, which states "PARS", the Potamium, which declares "PARS", the JRC, which declares "PARS", and the PASOK, which votes "OR". We have an amendment, for which there is no request for a roll-call vote, and it is the last vote we will be voting on in this way. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 44 and a specific number 6?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u425	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u430	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 44 and a special 6 was accepted by a majority, by a minority of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which votes for 'OHIM', the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, which states 'PARS', the river Parliamentary Group, which votes 'OHI', the JRC Parliamentary Group, which states 'PARS', the PASOK Parliamentary Group, which votes 'OH'. The roll-call vote will now take place. The request for a roll-call vote is for many articles. We shall hold a roll-call vote. In case there is a differentiation in different articles, I would ask our technicians here, who help us, to open the microphone, to clearly record the vote. The accepting of the article or the amendment is 'HAY'. The non-responsibility of the article or amendment is said to be 'NO'. Refusing votes shall declare ‘APPROVAL’. I would also like to inform you that fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 72A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the articles of the bill and amendments. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. I would ask that we start reading the list by Mrs Dritselli.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u431	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u432	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that there have been letters from colleagues, Mr.Photinis Arabatzis, Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis, Mr. Emmanuel Konsolas, Mr.Ioannis Kefalonianis, Mr. Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Mr. Athanasios Davakis, Mr. Stavros Kalafatis, Mr. Maximou Charakopoulos, Mr. Ioannis Vroutsis, Mr. Konstantinos Gioulekas, Mr. Nikolaos Dendias, Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazidis, Mr. Konstantinos Javaras, Mr. Theodoros Karaatopoulou, Mr. Georgios Kasapidis, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras, Mr. Helenis Raptis, Mr. Also, Mr. Nikolaos Friends, Mr. Zabek Hussein, Mrs. Stavrouula Xoulidou, Mr. Konstantinos Zouraris and Mrs. Maria Kollia - Tsarouha are absent and they know by letter that if they were present they would vote "NAI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes. I would ask, however, that the parliamentary groups be genuine. You cannot, in other words, write them in Athens, while they are invoked by an unsuccessful obligation outside Athens, because that is a mockery and it must not happen again. Since colleagues want to state their intention to vote and to record what they are doing, they can, in fact, send actual letters. We don't have to do such a virtual process. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u433	Ladies and gentlemen, we interrupt to count votes and will preside over the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Alexis Metropoulou, who presents me with a gift to my celebration to continue the process. I would like to ask Members to come to the end of the procedure. We have to announce the outcome, to vote on the nominated article and to vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u434	It cannot be voted on at present on the whole, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u435	Wait, Mr. Mitsotakis. It will therefore be passed on to the whole of the bill, given that it exists, it has already been distributed to the Members of Parliament, to the House, the so-called 'infection', and according to what has been accepted in the vote on the bill that has been voted on in this way, with several amendments, there is the parliamentary precedent that may be...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u436	And with which we do not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u437	Wait, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u438	Madam President, why don't you go and celebrate your celebration? Let Mr. Metropoulou preside. Let's not fight today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u439	We can, if you like, interrupt for twenty-four hours and vote on the whole tomorrow. There is this possibility too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u440	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u441	Good. In any case, I ask the Members to be here to write down their objections. This is not the time for objections. I'm recording that the bill has been distributed with all the modifications that have been made. These are only three amendments, they were all relevant. It was incorporated, distributed, recorded the result, and there is the possibility of following the previous one at that time. I would like to say that during at least this parliamentary term we have recorded that it is inappropriate - as opposed to all the previous periods when it was done against a coronary and did not react to some ministers and MPs - and we have taken care of what is the prerequisite for the vote on a whole, that is to say to distribute the bill, to have been fulfilled. I propose this more today, for the sake of Members' sakes of service, so that we do not only bring them to the vote on the whole. You will judge them and you will see them when this issue is raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u442	If you put it now, I'll answer you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u443	You will judge them and you will see them at the time when this issue will be raised after the announcement of the result. Now it's premature. I'm just warning because I don't want to be surprised. Because I have very bitter experience of surprises and because it is good that everything should be done transparently, in a democratic way, not in the rain of amendments, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u444	Don't you want to hear the answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u445	So we interrupt for the count and when it is time, you will do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u446	You don't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u447	If you object to the procedure, it will be recorded and there is the decision-making procedure in this House. Doing something arbitrary without a decision of this House is impossible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u448	Madam President, you colleagues half an hour ago urged them to take the lead and vote so that they could leave. Now you're inconsistent. It's wrong what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u449	You know very well that a bill on the whole is always voted on the next time there is a legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u450	That, Mr. Mitsotakis, is what the Rules of Procedure say. That is what was violated against the coron and we reacted and you insisted that they be voted on and you were Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u451	Don't you want to do the right thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u452	I have the authority to tell you that, yes, that's what the Rules of Procedure say. Given that we have already voted on this and given that we have already distributed it with the changes, so that it is known to the Members, I propose that we follow this. What you are proposing is that the total vote should go on Monday, that is to say to bring Members specifically for this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u453	That's not what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u454	No, that's it. It's okay. Look, we have a democracy and what needs to be done is done. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u455	Do I have to answer that? You've been singled out for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u456	It's not about answering now, because there's not yet been a statement of the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u457	In any case, the Rules of Procedure stipulate...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u458	I haven't given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u459	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u460	I haven't given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u461	You should not even preside, Madam President, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Because you took the floor before and you can't go back to the Chair again. So I have lessons about the Rules of Procedure not to do me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Mitsotakis, because that point of view you made it an article...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u463	Article? When did I make her an article? I don't write.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u464	Yeah, yeah. And because you betray and betray your lips, I want to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u465	Would you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u466	Of course, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u467	Get down, Madam President, and speak from the benches!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u468	I'll give you the floor. Don't make gestures!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u469	Get down, Madam President. Again on the day of your celebration, did you find yourself making a fuss? But do you not at last have any respect for this House, Madam President? I wanted to wish you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u470	I see you're having fun.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u471	You're talking about lipsticks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u472	You're doing this a lot today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u473	I see you're having fun. What you are referring to is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u474	Why isn't that true?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u475	He who wants to take the floor as a Member of Parliament whether he is the President or the Vice-President, comes down from the Step and takes the floor as a Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u476	And then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u477	What "then"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u478	And then it cannot go back to it, that is to say, in the Chair, before the debate on this matter is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u479	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u480	Why did you come back, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u481	Before the debate is over. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u482	You didn't come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u483	What haven't I come back to? That's exactly what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u484	I think we all understand Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u485	I think we all understand Greek as well and read behind the lines and the Rules of Procedure and the newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u486	Do what you want, Madam President. After all, you've made the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u487	When the result is announced, you will also be presenting your objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u488	Hello, Madam President. Rejoice your House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters and constituents to take the count of the votes and to produce the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u490	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 249 Members voted. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice 'NAI' voted 174 MPs. 'OH' 75 MPs voted. ‘PARON’ no MEP. Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. The new Article 3: 'NAI' voted 166 MPs. 'OH' 75 MPs voted. 'PARON' were voted 8 MPs. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. The new Article 6: "NAI" voted 152 MPs. 'OH' 75 MPs voted. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. The new Article 9: "NAI" voted 152 MPs. 'OH' 75 MPs voted. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. The new Article 12: "NAI" voted 152 MPs. (Parliament adopted the resolution) 'PARON' were voted 8 MPs. Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. The amendment with a general number 43 and a special number 5: "NAI" voted 152 MPs. 'OH' 75 MPs voted. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Therefore, Amendment No 43, and Amendment No 5, has been accepted by a majority. Paragraph 1 of the amendment will be the same article in the draft legislation. Paragraph 2 amends the new Article 16 of the draft law. The amendment under a general number 46 and a special number 8: 'NAI' voted 166 MPs. 'OH' 74 MPs voted. ‘PARON’ voted 9 MPs Consequently, the amendment by a general number 46 and a special 8 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u491	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u492	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Reforms of criminal provisions, abolition of press detention stores and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle and on articles. His vote on the whole shall be postponed for Monday 20-4-2015 at 18.00 p.m. I would like to thank Mr Yoyakas and Mrs Dritselli for the excellent work they have done. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-17-S1-commons.u493	With the consent of the House at 22.55 a meeting on Monday, April, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) legislative work, a vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Reforms of criminal provisions, repealing detention stores of the third type and other provisions" and (b) parliamentary control, reading reports and discussion of current questions, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
