ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, after apologies for the suffering you have suffered because of this great delay, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION The President of the French Republic, François Hollande, will be present and addressed to the House today. Please agree, so that we can suspend for a while the Bureau can welcome our guest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-23-S1-commons.u2	The House consents. The sitting is suspended at this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-23-S1-commons.u3	Mr President of the French Republic, Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, I would like to express on behalf of the Greek Parliament the pain and condolences of the accident and victims in southern France. We express our full solidarity with your people. Your Excellency, Mr President of the French Republic, is before Members, women and men, who represent eight political forces in our country following the recent national elections and before the Greek Government, who have had a vote of confidence in its programme statements. In expressing the feelings of the great majority of the Greek people and the Greek Parliament, we welcome you as a partner but also as a friend of our country. Your presence and public positions testify to the even greater tightening of traditional relations and friendship links between our countries and our peoples. It is known that our country has been in a social and political developments, commitments, agreements and conflicts for the past five years within and between the European institutions with the focus of the debt crisis, a crisis which has created dramatic social and economic consequences, and due to the commonly acknowledged misappropriations imposed on the name of the need for debt reduction and ultimately its continued growth. The Greek Parliament, genuinely expressing its popular sovereignty, endorses, through the quality of the difficult legislative and parliamentary work that we are now called upon to draw up, the principles of solidarity and responsibility, the responsibility both for complying with the recent economic agreement with the partners and for the rapid and positive overcoming of the negative social consequences and material measures, this includes. The great majority of the Greek people, Mr President, especially young people and the hundreds of thousands of unemployed have made very great sacrifices, without, of course, choosing it and without having a share of the responsibility for the crisis, as have our people who have tabled historical samples of resistance, resentment and solidarity. The policy of austerity and restriction of rights must be defeated. It must immediately give its place to another policy for the development, recovery and expansion of social rights, for a new spring of democracy, social and political democracy. I am sure, Mr President, that you agree, that there is no future for Europe, for the European Union, for the euro area and, of course, for our country as long as there is a threat to auctioning the homes that workers are staying with their families, as long as life needs are kicking out of the school system and at the same time expelling scientists from the country, as long as retired people are at risk of being able to live with dignity and not having access to health services, as long as democracy remains hostage within the range of market requirements and inhuman-liberal dogmas, as long as popular dominance is ultimately questioned when it is not happening and is not deprived by the centres of political interdependence. With these thoughts and the expectation, hope, or the assurance that we will all overcome these deadlocks together, we welcome you and invite you to make us the honour to take the floor and address you to the National Representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-23-S1-commons.u4	Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, Prime Minister, Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to thank you for your warm words, for your condolences after the disaster which has hit my country with forty-two victims. Your warm words especially moved me. Unfortunately, this is not the first time France has known such disasters in recent years. But you know what a trial means and in the face of such events we should show solidarity. And of course what unites us are our common values. That is why I feel very moved, and I appreciate what you are doing in my own country, giving me the opportunity to speak, to take the floor here in front of this House. For every European Parliament of Greece, the Greek Parliament is a symbol. Here, in ancient Athens, the idea of democracy was born, and this is where democracy, which remains an idea that unites us, has been able to overcome European borders. Democracy is always a struggle, it is not a acquis. It took many generations in Greece until democracy was established. You are the followers of the National Assembly in Epidaurus and you know very well that it took time to regain its sovereignty by the Greek people, a people who have paid, resisted fascism, Nazism. And then, you fought to regain your freedom. It is therefore very important that France was able to stand alongside Greece in the difficult times of its history. In the period of dictatorship, France was able to welcome artists, philosophers, intellectuals, trade unionists and political leaders. In 1974, on the plane of then President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, Constantine Karamanlis returned to Greece. France has therefore continued its efforts since then in order to consolidate Greece's participation in Europe. General De Gaulle came here in Athens in 1963, and said that this European integration can only defend its sovereign rights within these borders or become an economic satellite. These words are, today, decisive, timely, when I speak here in front of you. So I would like to tell you about my visit to Greece today that from France, which was born of human rights, France of the French Revolution that gave hope and beyond the French borders, I come to Greece today, to welcome the lesson of democracy that you have given us in recent months, a country for which dignity is important. It is a country that wants to keep its luck, to courageously face the difficulties that have hit her. So democracy is to address the intelligence of citizens and not fear, to enable a people to make a clear choice, to choose responsibility and will. Democracy is dialogue, open spirit and progress, the fight against oligarchy, prerogatives, and that is why this struggle is unstoppable, never complete. We should therefore really support democracy, not retreat in front of demagogy. The Greek people have spoken three times in the last few months. So Europe was looking at you and wondering why your decision was decisive for the future of Europe and not just for your own fate. But you stood up to the circumstances. For years now, three successive parliaments have voted for support programmes that are important for the country's future. There was the agreement of 13 July. I know very well what debates this agreement has caused. But you have adopted this agreement with a large majority and national unity here in Parliament. You have expressed your own sensitivities, but you have mainly expressed your commitment to Europe and your will to remain in the Eurozone. So, against splitting forces, you believed in the European idea and did not hear the advice of all those who occasionally advised you and for a while get out of the Eurozone. You also did not want to be closed to protectionism and border protection, paper borders, I would say. You wanted, on the contrary, to renew your commitment and commitment to European ideas. You have defended your national sovereignty, but without becoming nationalists. You supported your peculiarity without being isolated. You wanted to support your identity, but no illusions. You have supported a compromise, which is essentially what is based on the European idea. You protected Europe from unrest that could have destabilised it and at the same time protected you from speculation, which would have destroyed you. It's already hit you a lot. This decision put Greece in a new dynamic. Greece today can resurrect and recover. I would therefore like to express France's support for Greece. For the past six years, you have been experiencing an economic crisis, social crisis, a moral crisis without precedent. 1/4 of national wealth has been destroyed, it has been eliminated. The weakest social groups have been hit harder. Youths today have no future. And what I am expressing to you here is not compassion, because you are right not to want compassion, what I am expressing is support for a strong cooperation. France is committed to cooperation on the implementation of reforms and returning development. I am a French friend of Greece, and I am a Frenchman, but also a French European, as a progressive one, because from the beginning of my political commitment, I have been inspired by progressive ideas. From the outset I have tried to support Greece's stay in the Eurozone for a very simple reason: Without Greece, Europe would not be Europe and the Eurozone would lose legitimacy. I know of course that the reforms you are calling for are very demanding. We also need such reforms in France to protect our common future. I know that it is very difficult for reforms, in particular to balance pensions, on the issue of tax reform - unfair - to modernise the state, economic efficiency. All this is necessary, however, not only for accounting reasons, but also for guaranteeing the future of the new Greeks, for the future of the competitiveness of the Greek economy, but also for the effectiveness of the services. This long night on 12 July marked not only the fate of Greece, but also the idea that we have for Europe. It takes hours to figure out what this is all about. That night it was not some measures, it was our coexistence in Europe, if the European idea goes beyond us. Of course, there is a need for discipline, but discipline is not enough. We had to understand if we had a common vision, a common luck. When I entered the summit that night, I was looking at my fellow European leaders and I was not at all sure that I could convince them. And they wondered what they should do. Early this morning, when there were doubts, whether or not we could find a solution, I felt them worried, very concerned about the consequences of Greece not staying in the European Union. We had to discuss, we needed arguments, and I would like here to welcome Alexis Tsipras' attitude, because he struggled, so that Greece's position would be respected. He also did so on behalf of his country and it is not easy to have a credible programme, which should be adopted in a spirit of confidence, just as he did on the night of the negotiations, which lasted endless hours. Finally, the agreement was reached, which must be based on accountability and commitment made by Greece. We need Europe's solidarity, but we need to see what happens from now on. There are EUR 35 billion for investment, the commitment to debt servicing, which is necessary. Over the next few weeks, which will be decisive, Greece will have to deal with the assessment of its commitments once again. I can assure you that it is very important that what was written in the agreement should be respected. And it is very important that we respect the commitments and do not question the fundamental rights of Greek families, the right to a home, and I am speaking here about the seizures of the first homes. I also heard the Greek Government's message here very well. The next few weeks will therefore be decisive, because in these next few weeks the uncertainty to which the Greek people have been a long time ago must be cleared up. The budget should be financed, the recapitalisation of the banking system should be carried out and the funds removed. I would like to repeat that France was at your side during the negotiations. We will remain on your side for implementing reforms, because that was my choice, that was the choice of Europeans, but also for another reason, because there is a link between our two countries, our two peoples. It's a history bond. France supported Greece whenever independence and democracy were threatened. The leaders of France, my predecessors, regardless of their political sensitivity, supported the bond between our two countries, our two democratic states, seeking to put us in the same European direction. We also wanted to be active within the European Union, because we support the same values of peace in the Middle East. We want to combat terrorism. We want political solutions to be found, which will finally end this appalling war in Syria. And precisely because we are committed to this region, we are two Mediterranean countries, we want to have different religions, nations, respect for minorities. Here I am thinking particularly of Christians in the Middle East, who must allow them to stay where they have always lived. France therefore particularly welcomes Greece's efforts to stabilise the South-East Mediterranean region. We support all the initiatives relating to the Cyprus issue that will accompany, support dialogue to reunite Cyprus and to have a political solution, in accordance with the UN's predefined rules and criteria. We are united in the field of foreign policy. Of course, there are also what we want to do from now on for Europe. Europe is not just a currency, a market, rules. It's a common idea. They're values. And it is time - beyond the discipline, which has been so busy with us lately because of the crisis that we are plagued - that Europe moves forward, becomes more politically strong, can convey messages, strong voices, and not let others speak on behalf of Europe. On the contrary, Europe should be a political force. Europe must give hope to those peoples who today have doubts. And if you see the European idea and ambition not being so intense today, this will certainly be a problem for democracy as well. Those who challenge Europe are questioning its values, questioning its principles. We must also give a social dimension to this Europe, a solidarity. I will come back to the issue of solidarity when I talk about refugees. Of course, I return to friendship between France and Greece, because there is also an economic dimension here, which I wish to strengthen with my visit. We are the fourth investor in Greece, with a hundred and twenty companies, and twelve thousand Greeks are working on them. I would like France to strengthen its position, to participate in major infrastructure projects in Greece, in the field of health, energy and new technologies. France can contribute and you can create a strategic partnership with France. Of course, the Prime Minister asked you to return the investments. I will appeal to the French businessmen. I came here with a delegation of ministers, Members of Parliament, elected, but also many French entrepreneurs, because I wanted French entrepreneurs to gain confidence in Greece's economy and make useful decisions for our two countries. There is also the issue of culture. Culture is nothing more, culture is our soul. We are two large nations, which wish to create an image through culture. Culture is perhaps the most valuable thing we have. Everything can be lost by a people and by a country apart from its culture, because it is about its soul. I would therefore like our two countries to have more ambitions, with artists, with museums. The archaeology sector is also a crucial sector and the French Archaeological School since 1846 has been involved in the radiation of this sector for our two countries. There is also the French language, the French-language version of which Greece is a member. I remember that in my generation - a previous generation - many Greeks spoke French. I would therefore like France to become the first country to receive Greek students. And I would like there to be a multiplication of cooperation agreements. Five hundred cooperation agreements have been signed between Greek and French higher education institutions. We can also work together in many other areas that I mentioned to you, which will be incorporated in the declaration that we signed with the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras. France will therefore be financially and technically supporting Greece in combating tax evasion, in modernising public administration, in reforming the health system, hospitals and in everything, such as taxation, could help you to recover more economic growth. Of course, all these issues are sensitive. France is prepared, precisely because it is very sensitive in terms of sovereignty, to accompany you in the area of the exploitation of the State's assets. This is also contained in the Agreement of 13 July. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you that Europe is what we want to do. Europe is a heritage, a acquis, a history that we have. And the question is: does this plan still inspire us? Is there still a European ambition? Is there still a common European fate and vision? Some come to Europe to just have financial support. And no one can remain in Europe for economic reasons alone. We live in Europe because we can only be solidarity, stronger and more capable of changing the world together. For this reason, I would like to stress here that Europe does not exist without solidarity and without common values. Today Greece has been at the forefront of the flows of refugees - five hundred thousand since the beginning of 2015. The vast majority of these refugees want to escape from violence, from wars and seek refuge in Europe. There are others who use immigration to be able to live better, to find jobs. These cannot be welcomed. It's a difficult decision, but that's what we have to do. We must protect our borders and Europe can and must be a guarantee. We cannot leave Greece alone in the face of this refugee flow. Europe must therefore take decisions. Here, I return to the idea and the word'solidarity'. Those who questioned solidarity when they had to financially support some countries, today they are asking for solidarity with the same countries, asking them to protect the external borders. And they do well. But Greece was right when it asked for solidarity, because that is the basis of the European Union's idea. When a country faces difficulties, we must support it, not when everything goes well. We all need them. There are some in Europe who are not familiar with geography and suddenly realised that Greece is in the south, that it has borders, that its shores are a few kilometres away from Turkey and that there was a passage, that there are Greek islands that have been flooded today by refugees. That is exactly what we need to show. We must show efficiency and solidarity. Because if solidarity is simply wishful, proclamations and words, it has no effect. What we need to do is create these great hot spots, counting and identifying centres, so that we can welcome these people, those who can't get them out, and those who we should welcome to give them asylum. We must also, of course, create border guards at European level. We should have a relationship with Turkey, a relationship that is demanding, a relationship of mutual assistance and support, because we cannot let Turkey go through people who should stop. So we started our cooperation with Turkey, the European Commission. Mrs Merkel also went to Turkey last Sunday and in the name of Europe she started this cooperation, but there too, of course, conditions should be laid down and support and measures given. France will make available to the European Services supporting Greece - FRONTEX and the European Office for Asylum - staff and resources to support these two services in order to speed up the process. Ladies and gentlemen, you have experienced a crisis and continue to live it. In Greece and the Greek "crisis" not only means "crisis", but comes from the verb "I judge" which means "I answer" and "I decide" as well. It is at times when things can turn towards one side or the other. Hope can be reborn or the opposite may happen. I believe that at the moment we will have a regeneration, and France should also assume its share of responsibility. And if you really want there to be a next stage in the European edifice, then we should all not function as an 'approximate'. I believe that if Europe does not go ahead, all the countries will, in the end, start to question it. I'm not in favour of those who want to retire, backed up, lift up walls, consider the other as a suspect. I do not agree with those who want nothing to give to all those who live in a different country or in a different way. I would like no one to resort to fear. I would like us to learn how the economic and social crisis has led to frustrations and breaches. Judging all this, getting to know each other and acting. That is why I propose that Europe should have a new political agenda, that there should be investment projects and projects beyond the Juncker project, that youth be involved, that the new generation be at the core of European policies. What I want is for the economic and monetary union to have its own budget, its own economic governance, for the European Parliament to be directly linked to decision-making at the level of the Heads of State or Government or at the level of the European Commission. We must move forward, move forward, move forward, have a course that is not intercepted and is something I say here in Greece, because France as well as Greece has been inspired by the century of Enlightenment. We believe that there is always a chance of progress. In addition to the economic strength of each country or the weakness of any country, Greece and France are countries which embody a specific idea, a particular culture and we all have that awareness. And so we will be able to move forward and come up with a truly European message, a European message that will forge between the peoples of Europe, a message that will put fanaticism to the fore, a message that will lead us to a common life that will give youth hope. That is why I came here to Athens, in the cradle of democracy. I came because I wanted to express my gratitude for the choices you made, to express my solidarity and to express my support for your respect for your commitments. Here in Greece, the cradle of democracy has been the first notion, the first fantasy for the creation of Europe, and this is where we must begin to build our common future. Long live Greece! Long live France! Long live our friendship!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you to the President of the French Republic. I would ask the First Vice-President of the House, Mr. Kourakis, to take over the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-23-S1-commons.u6	We award the Golden Medal of the Greek Parliament with relief of the form of Pericles, the most prominent politician of classical antiquity, reformer of the Athenian Republic and main expression of the Golden Age, as an expression of honor and recognition of mutual feelings of friendship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-23-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-23-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-23-S1-commons.u9	The sitting is closed for tomorrow, Saturday, October 24, 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda.
