ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Special session of the Parliamentary Assembly dedicated to the day of remembrance and honor for the revolt of the Polytechnic. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago in the Greek Parliament, France's President François Holland addressed it. A few days ago, on Friday night, there was the well-known hideous terrorist strike. The government and all the state leadership of the country and all the parties expressed their disgrace, condemnation and, of course, solidarity and solidarity with the French people. These blows, this barbarism - which had been preceded by Lebanon and other countries, and we must not forget it - is at the centre of attention today for the development of a massive international peace movement. I would ask the Greek Parliament, because it is at its first meeting after the event, to pay tribute to a minute of silence. [[At this point, the Members of all the parties are holding a minute's silence.]] Their memory is eternity. With regard to the procedural part of today's debate, I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have indicated by a speaker, and in particular by SYRIZA Mr Manios, the New Democracy, Mr Javara, the Democratic Assent by Mr Scandalidis, the KKE by Mr Giokas, the Potami by Mr Mavrotas, the ANELs by Mr Papachristopoulos and the Centroon Union by Mr Marios Georgiadis. On behalf of the government, with a speaking time of 15 minutes, Minister Nikolaos Philis will speak. During the speech by the first two speakers if some of my fellow Members want to be added to express their opinion and honour in today's debate, they can do so by registering with their card with seven minutes of speaking time. The first speakers from the parliamentary groups will have twelve minutes of speaking time. The Presidents of Parliament may also take the floor if they wish to speak. At the end of the meeting, there will also be a minute silence in memory of the fighters and the victims of the Polytechnic. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, it is a great honour for me to address the Greek Parliament today at the Memorandum of Understanding, at the initiative of the Bureau of Parliament. And my aim is not only to pay tribute to the fighters and the fighters of the Polytechnic, but to try with my speech to link the contingency of the great democratic and social struggles at that time to the present reality. Ladies and gentlemen, November 17 is not just another anniversary in the national festivities. It is a day of inspiration, reflection and reflection for every democratic citizen in the country. It's a burglary point in the timing of authoritarianism, coercion and guilty silence. It is a moment that proves that desire for democracy, freedom and social justice is or can become stronger than fear of repression or even fear of death. The Polytechnic insurrection shows that there may be values for which one can fight at risk even his own life. This is the absolute moment of human moral elevation, the absolute moment of freedom. There were several such moments during the seven-year-old dictatorship, with the implosion of the student Kostas Georgakis, in 1970, in the Mateti Square of Genoa, as well as those who gave their lives or tortured in the colonels and chose to remain unknown to the general public until today. The Polytechnic School is a station in our modern history and is registered in a long history of social struggles, starting from the epic of our national resistance. The uprising of the consciences culminated in November 17, 1973, and the occupation of the previous law, is not just the spontaneous outbreak of youth in oppression, persecution and torture of the colonists' junta. It was the maturation of a long process of radicalization that accelerated and transformed throughout the 1960s. After all, the Polytechnic rebels themselves made the connection to the struggles for the protection of democracy and the defence of the Constitution by invoking the nominee article of the Constitution of 114. 17 November 1973 draws its roots in the pre-declaratory struggles and the democratisation of the university and education, which was and remains in line with the state's overall democratisation. It takes its roots in the struggles of the democratic youth of Lambraki for peace, culture and democracy, as well as in the prototypes and scattered resistance from the first days of the junta, leading to the attempt to murder the dictator Papadopoulos from Alekos Panagoulis on August 13, 1968. The revolt of the Polytechnic School, however, also coincides with the awakening of the visions of the new generation of peoples throughout Europe, in May 1968 in France, the escalation of student and labour movements in Germany and Italy, but also in the spring of Prague, despite the fact that at that time our country was in relative isolation from European developments and with limited information, as censorship was then dominated. Some claim that in relation to the escalation of movements in Europe, the University of Polytechnic slowed to come to Greece. On the other hand, I would say that it was at the right time, because the maximum contribution of youth at the Polytechnic was to cancel the so-called 'Marquezine experiment' and to overturn its political expressions, that is to say to cancel an attempt to legitimise a pseudo-liberalisation of the dictatorship and its transformation into a pseudo-file and falsified democracy under the continuous control of the pre-dictorial political establishment. The failure of this prospect, which would probably ensure the continuity and reproduction of the regime of dictatorship, we owe it first and foremost to the rebellious youth but also to the popular masses that were associated with it at the Polytechnic, because they were expressed and thus succeeded in casting the political staff and revealing the true, unique and ruthless face of the dictatorship, the junta of the colonel. Thus, the road to the post-population was opened, unfortunately, with a heavy price for the tragedy of Cyprus, with the coup imported from Athens on 15 July and the Turkish invasion five days later. The subsequent Migration created greater expectations than the mere restoration of democracy and despite its contradictions, it was a period of democratic stability and relative social well-being for the people. Of course, in the post-population and the ideologies and practices that were created at that time, many people later searched for the cause of the recent economic crisis and the Memorandum of Understanding that followed. However, the relocation has to admit that it was the period of construction, for the first time in Greece, of a stable and relatively large Parliamentary Republic. It was the period of development of large democratic, social and political struggles, as well as the recovery of Greek society from the barbarity of the post-election state. It is therefore not possible to say that the relocation is one and one; it has one single person. It is also the period of the blooming of democracy and social experimentation and struggles, as well as the period of the formation and strengthening of a coalition of client power, a state-run and authoritarian, self-respecting state. But whatever the Migration was, this period has now passed in history and has been the subject of the evaluation of historians to judge. The sure thing is that, with the collapse of a whole economic, productive, consumer and administrative model and a tragic ending to our country's subjection to the Memorandum Committee mechanism for five years, it restores the demands of that three-day in November 1973 for popular sovereignty, social liberation and deepening of democracy, not as an anniversary rhetoric but as a condition of the survival of the world of work and youth. Ladies and gentlemen, today's struggle against social injustice, the external and forced imposition of neoliberal models, extremist and inefficient, but also the fight against - I will add - in the domestic strife, which has a key responsibility for the country's progress in bankruptcy, our struggle to implement another policy, with a classic mark, in favour of popular strata, which is a constant struggle and for the change of relations not only in Greece but also in Europe, the struggle to restore and deepen democracy, which has really been superseded by the last five years, is catching the thread of the struggle of youth in the anti-dictary but also of the post-dictarian period. And this struggle, the struggles and expectations of the young people of that period, must not today allow any self-determination - allegedly - to be robbed. Powers that have always been absent from the mass, social struggles and later, in the name - a few - of the people but always absent, indifferent to democracy, indifferent to human life, are being burned - allegedly - by the defenders of the people. We must not allow them to speak in the name of the people and the struggles of the so-called anti-powered ones who, I say, have an authority that has not been given them, but no one thinks they can have the absolute power, the power of life and death. This struggle, the conquests and struggles of the mass people, the democratic conquests of our people must not allow them to be robbed or the self-determined saviours - supposedly anti-powered - but on the other hand we must not allow these struggles to insult them, to be defeated, to be challenged by the far-right nostalgics of the junta, whether they are in Golden Dawn or elsewhere, the negative of truth, the reviewers of history that are built on the memory that is registered in institutions, but also in the bodies of the generation of the Polytechnics. Because this struggle identifies the democratic, radical coordinates of the new historic period that began for our people and, I would say, with a significant reference to the latest developments since 25 January. The first seven months of our governance, ladies and gentlemen, was a seven-month period that was given a tough and inequality struggle with powers that were pro-government and from positions undermined. But for the first time in years this struggle gave the Greek people the right to hope and expect a better future. And that was the expectation that mobilized him, that he took him on the road with an unprecedented dynamism and an unprecedented mood of mobilization. The biggest bet today is to keep this popular expectation for a better life. Because only this expectation can be the catalyst for the continuation of this struggle, which has certainly not yet been justified, to fundamentally change an economic and political model that has deep roots and is based on strong interests, to change the relationships in Europe of neoliberalism, insecurity and constant crises, to prioritise the needs of the world of work and youth, so that the country can finally come out of the committee's regime and start together the great struggle to restore the social wounds through a stable, but sustainable development, to create decent working conditions and to put an end to employers' arbitrariness, to create jobs that will give young people, young people the opportunity to stay in the country, to promote and create here. I would like to point out at this point that, as much as it attempts to do this round, the ring of interoperable political and economic power that is currently falling, to maintain its prerogatives and power will not win this battle, because we are determined to implement it in this country, at last, the laws for everyone, to end with a system of economic power that is completely out of control and has brought Greek society to this point today. We are ready to do everything necessary to restore transparency, legitimacy, social justice in all areas of public life: economy, the labour market, the state, the media, justice. And it is precisely these social and political fronts that today define the political separatist lines that distinguish the forces of progress from the maintenance forces. We must, however, today, 17 November, forty-two years later, commit ourselves to the future of the social category that has been affected more than anyone in the last five years, for the future of the young people of the new generation, for what is to come into education, which is at a critical stage, as it has accumulated huge problems in conflict with the ideas of the political and mid-termist establishment. At the very first moment, we had determinedly started trying to reform the higher education institutions for the democratic functioning of universities and for changes aimed at restoring free academic life. Because, with the speeches of the last decade, the self-interest of universities and also of academic freedom, they had been completely violated with pretexts many times and with ideological screams many times that unfortunately united in an extreme way, both within and outside Parliament, ideologies that were unconnected: neoliberal ideology with extreme right-wing concepts. We, therefore, instead of the short first period of our governance, wanted to promote democratisation and resolve issues of violation of the constitutionally-driven self-employed educational institutions and, of course, restored academic asylum, which for us is an important social conquest, a source of democracy and a treaty for the free movement of knowledge. In other words, it is a concept that is absolutely identical to the very existence of the university. Of course, deep reform of education must go through a wider dialogue, public, universal, with all the stakeholders in the Greek society. Because it is obvious that sufficient time should be given to discuss and hide the main directions of such an effort. But we must all respond clearly to what an educational system we want. Do we want an educational system that works for the benefit of the whole society, or will we promote a market version that is today, unfortunately, dominant in the Western and European world? For us the answer to that question is clear. We must create an educational system aimed at strengthening democratic ideals, free research thinking, scientific creation, which is the catalyst for the development of science itself. We reject the authoritarianism, fragmentation and fragmentation of the individualist formation of studies that prevent collective action against everyday problems. We reject anything that reverses humanism, any spread to racial or other divisions. For us, solidarity has neither a passport nor a colour. In particular, in today's difficult situation that we are experiencing at local, European and international levels, we must all consider the gravity of our words and our actions. We must bear in mind that solidarity between the peoples is the only way to deal with the humanitarian tragedy caused by the refugee flows from Syria, but also from other war zones to Europe. After all, as a people we have met the refugee and have all been engraved in our memories, in collective memory, in the images of refugee fathers, grandparents from our recent history. We therefore have a collective memory, which, especially in these difficult days and after the terrorist, murderous blow in France, requires us with soberness and determination to appreciate the difficult developments in Europe. The political defeat of Europe by terrorists will come only if Europe itself chooses conservative folding at the closed borders, raised fences and unpopular consciences. Europe will be defeated by the fundamental principles of peace, humanism, democracy and solidarity and its integration into the basic political logic of the extreme and populist right. Today, far more than ever, we must isolate extremes and racist voices both in Greece and in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, with the opportunity given to me today, in closing, I would like to express my gratitude on behalf of the democratic state for the MPs and MPs of the Greek Parliament who actively took part in the anti-trial struggle, were imprisoned and experienced the cruel and inhuman face of the regiments' junta. I come from another generation, from a generation that was unborn in those years. However, I feel the need for the face of several Members from all the wings, which in those years have fought at difficult times at the cost of their lives, to express my admiration and gratitude for all those who, during the dark seven years, have not hesitated to give their youth to the struggle, some even their own lives, so that we can speak today, disagree on political objectives, social struggles, popular expectations. Because in the dark underground of EAT - ESY, perhaps the brightest pages of modern Greek history were written. And I want to assure them, as I assure all the Greek people, that the motto of the Polytechnic for 'Psalm - Freedom' remains timely for all of us and it is a bet that this government wants to win and win. There remains a demand mainly for the struggles coming, the struggles of the new generation, struggles to realise our vision of a definitive discharge of social injustice, the recovery of our popular sovereignty, the deepening of our democracy, the safeguarding of our social cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u3	I will give the floor to Mr. Friend on behalf of the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u4	Why, Mr President, did the Prime Minister speak for himself?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u5	...and then we'll reverse the order for Mr. Javaras to speak on behalf of Officer Response and Mr. Manios from SYRIZA. Unfortunately, I inform the House that we have an earthquake in Lefkada with two victims. We hope things are a little better than they seem. Mr. Friends has the floor for 15 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us finally see the Polytechnic, free from its myth. Myth to which many invested. Myth that occasionally exploited parties, groups and public figures, others to peculiarize him or to redeem him and others to degrade him, empty him from the real, very democratic content of him for the benefit of his own rival ideology. Let us finally see the Polytechnic in the simplicity of the greatness of his struggle, in the cleanliness and unselfishness of intentions, through the unrealized to our days of his fighters' vision. What, really, were students and youths defending in November of '73? What did they demand from the then power of the far right and subordinate to American imperialism? What is being defended and demanded by today's youths, today's great generation of unemployment, today's generation of unemployment, what they expect from society, and today's youth after the world changes that have since occurred in our country, since the depth of the sky seemed red, makes us more careful and not resort to unscrupulous inductions. The Polytechnics is before all the symbol of unity and a symbol of youth resistance that defys every difficulty, any unrelenting power in all the poles of social and political life, in order to give its vision of a different at last, for a society of justice, freedom and brotherhood, which will share equal women and men, citizens of the world without discrimination. Because the Polytechnic is deeply political and threateningly subversive. That is why the enemies of democracy have hated and persecuted it, but also on the other hand, the subsequent powers of the collapsed old-fashioned party have attempted to do so. The Polytechnic has left a hold in history, in addition to the dead that neo-nazis continue to provoke and deny until today, the undeniable fight against fascism in a world of ever more social and economic uncertainties, in an international round where everything is fluid and unforeseeable, in a Europe which just yesterday accepted a terrible blow to the heart of democracy and free thinking - and from this position we express our solidarity with the French people. The Polytechnic's message acts multiplierically and revealably as a model of claiming the defence of self-evident, that is, the freedom of the individual and of society, the vindication and the defence of democracy as the only culture that guarantees our human and political face, a democracy with political and social content. And these faces, the only person who suits his status as an Aristotle of a political animal that is man, nothing more than education, in its narrow and broad sense. Ladies and gentlemen, education was the second part of the most famous motto of the Polytechnic: "Psalm, Education, Freedom". Although the junta may end in 1974, the demands of polytechnic fighters remain at another level and in other environments imperative, having even acquired a wider dimension for forty-two years later. From the time of the Polytechnic struggle, from the time of the fight against barbaric dictatorships in the countries of the European South - in Spain, Portugal, Greece - to the present time, where the European South is narrowing, mainly by paying for the failures, injustices and dogmas of the neoliberal model that has prevailed in the last decade in Europe, the basic demand of youth and wider society remains unrealistic as well as unfulfilled: democracy and peace, justice and equality, prosperity and education for all. And the heart of education is the public school that we have to trust and continuously improve, a school of cooperation and not competition, open to society, democratic, participatory, reliable and non-discriminatory. Ladies and gentlemen, in the deep crisis, a crisis primarily moral and political throughout Europe, societies are faced with reason - fundamentalism. The ghost of the war of civilizations acquires bloody dimensions and murder practices. Through the societies of the developed West they are being disembodied as as an asymmetrical threat persons from the generations of the Chinese and the second and third generation migrants, who have grown up in the ghettos of consumer society, who have felt nationalist violence, the mutilation of the dominant groups, and now seek sense of life in totalitarian ideologies and practices of insensitive violence that occur in racism, imperialism of the powerful, as well as the emergence of neo-fascism by the adoption of reversed idols, such as jichanism, anti-west racism and consequent irrationalism. Apparently, we're experiencing a time of breaches. In this dramatic and unknown way, we are determined to safeguard security without taking freedoms. We are called upon as Europe not to forget our duty to the refugees, who, like the young people of the massacre in Paris, are the victims of the same enemy. We have to insist on the rational values of democracy and social redistribution at global level. This is the only way to stop the bloodshed that pushes the caravans of despair towards Europe. The war against asymmetric terrorism, to prove effective, needs to combat the causes of worsening global inequality, economic, social, ecological, ethnic. We are experiencing a deep crisis of values, which requires at least another look at culture and education, without nationalist deprivations that fuel wars and crusades. Undeniable defenders of democratic values, suspected of the dangers and the possibilities, cloning new forms of solidarity and collectiveness, tolerant toward each other and all of this in a world that is fragmented by the selfish prevalence of the united man, piled up under the ruins of salvation, the supposedly unique thought, the eschatology of the neoliberal dogma. Ladies and gentlemen, the message of the Polytechnic insurrection remains tragic, but ultimately hopefully timely for the people and youth. For the Left Government, which in its DNA is the resistance of the democratic struggle, which in the faces of thousands of people of left and wider democratic world is recognized as the continuation of a struggle that never ends, the anniversary of the Polytechnic remains a promise, a weighted and unconscious, message of confidence that the present of injustice, oppression and alienation is not eternal, that history has not ended, that humanity can move forward to a horizon of freedom, not to regress on religious violence, not to retreat to prehistoricism. Ladies and gentlemen, the slogan 'Psame - Freedom', which is heated today, means 'work for everyone - education for all - democracy everywhere'. We are now honouring a leading united act of the people and youth, which through our differences is an example of democratic regeneration, of the country's exit from the crisis, of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u7	I would ask Mr Constantine Javara to take the floor on behalf of the New Democracy. Your speaking time is up to 12 minutes, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a good day. It is a day when the anniversary meaning is greater than any other thought about party idiomisation of a struggle that belongs to the entire Greek people. I was about to welcome the Prime Minister's presence at this event in the House. Unfortunately, however, some retardations of his speech force me to retreat, because I believe that this opportunity is not an opportunity, this glimpse of some values from the distance of 2015, to say that today what the Greek people live is a signicant or a political continuation of the one that was manifested in the unparalleled step in favour of freedom from polytechnic fighters. There is no point here today in reminding us whether the government is doing its job well, or whether it best serves the interests of the Greek people. What we have to do is recognise that what was done at the Polytechnics has a completely harmonious integration into the history of the nation, because it is an act of resistance. In fact, as Nikos Svoronos says - in order not to use the words of another historian that the majority would question him - the formation of the Greek nation is a case that was forged through the resistance of our people to any kind of occupants or possessions of tyrannicals that came from outside and established tyrannical regimes internally, or forms of occupation that were imposed on us in the cases of those tyrannical regimes that will always be and are black pages in the history of this place. We must every time find the meaning, which gives us the courage to continue and say that it is worth fighting in this place, and especially in this Chamber for the sake of a democracy that has not only been delivered to us to continue and manage it, but it has been handed over to us for the purpose and, above all, with a deposit of such things, which obliges us to deepen and enrich it. That is why I think it is timely that someone is trying to connect what is happening today with what started to be a struggle on 17 November 1973, unless, of course, some people are trying to apologize for the fact that today's day will not be one of those that will be registered in the days for which we should be proud. But today I don't want to be misled. What I would like to say - and I am glad to say this to representatives of the Greek people who are honouring their mission - is that Polytechnic will be a source of inspiration for all of us. In fact, in order not to blame the Prime Minister, I will take a revulsion of the speech which I fully adopt. The meaning of the Polytechnic in the successive celebrations we make for his memory can be no more than he calls us, not in unadulterated orordinary rhetorics, but in a consciousness of it being, together with the other heroic moments of the resistance of the Greek people, a term of survival for the nation and the people. But we should always be on the side of the speeches of the national poet. If we want to be useful to what we are preparing as a future for our children, we should not lose our minds that our nation should consider what is true. If there is one truth in this incident at the Polytechnic University, it is that while there has been a unique event in the development of the phenomenon of dictatorship, while there has been an event of unparalleled heroism and self-sufficient sacrifice in favour of democracy, freedom and justice in relation to tyranny tyranny, what it has not been possible to do and it has not been done - and we all can see it, I think, and the previous ones - that it was not the beginning for new truths. He was unable to give imaginary meanings such as to give his place and history a new beginning. It was limited to being caught up in the reintroduction of the normality behind the post-Multipulation process, in such a way that, unfortunately, nothing new came up and nothing new was set up, except democratisation, of course, in higher education institutions, in the sense of abolishing the seat and certain other forms. I have lived through the facts, and I think I have the power to mention them and to comment on them. That is why I would personally like, because I belong to the generation of the Polytechnics, that the Polytechnics had existed in the sense and function of an incident of radical and incomprehensible to those who did so and have suffered it at the time it happened, that is, an explosion of a new in all areas of life, just as happened in May of '68 or just as it could be under such or circumstances that could lead us to a really new historic period. So today we are proud and honouring the fighters of the Polytechnic, we honour the meaning of the Polytechnic as a unique in passion, in a pulse, in self-sacrifice effort to suppress tyranny democracy, freedom and justice, but we must bear in mind the fact that, unfortunately, this night of the dictatorship has not come true only by the Polytechnic. And that is something that should make us careful, when we talk about his meaning, because, unfortunately, this incomplete gives the right to anyone to fill with meaningless staff, party, government, ideological, intolerance, anything that starts from the Polytechnic reference. So I believe that it is through Polytechnics that the people will be able to find a sustainable path to the future - through polytechnics which, of course, do not always have the dramaticity or heroism of such an uprising, but of course have a character of resistance to any form of totalitarianism, every fascism, every attempt to witness the free, autonomous course of the place in a future - this very opportunity I devote to those fighters of the Polytechnic, who have never dared to go out ahead with the topicality, the front, publicity - and there are hundreds and thousands of them - to redeem what they have done at the time in vain exchanges of impressions, where many have earned cheques and have literally made careers through this participation. So it is worthy of honor to those who have completely assimilated the verse of Seferis "the heroes always go in the dark." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. I can't help but tell you that I'm calling to Vima Nikos Manios to speak on behalf of SYRIZA. For all of us, for many who had an experiential relationship with those days of November, the presence on the benches of Stath of Panagoulis, Balaoura of Mitafidis, Maniou and many others, and by other factions, is a shocking source of inspiration for today. Nikos Manius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my presence at the Step is not to add another analysis, another reference to the Polytechnics. I've heard hundreds, thousands, I'd say. My presence here is intended to honor the dead, not only of the Polytechnic, but all the dead throughout Greece. And when we say polytechnic, it's not just Athens. When we say 'the dead of the anti-dictatorial struggle', it is not just the dead of the Polytechnic. They are those who died tormented in the first days of the junta. It's Halkidis in Thessalonica and many others. I hope that apart from the side of the Golden Dawn, which is not here as a sign of revulsion to the Polytechnic, the remaining absences are conventional and mean nothing. I would like to say that I was positively surprised by Mr Javarra's speech. First of all, he repeated one of the slogans said after the Polytechnics: "Come on for one, two, three, many Polytechnics!". The University of Polytechnic is called "the top moment". So, before the top moment, there's something that's born, which is spreading, something that's fermenting into society and coming out at the top moment. Many people thought - and then they call it shamelessly - that the people have accepted the junta. They didn't even see the ten thousand arrested the first night, like all left-wing fighters, with few exceptions from other political spaces...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u11	Not everyone! Everybody?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u12	I said 'with exceptions from other political areas'. Look, Mrs. Bakoyannis. I've been in jail and had people inside that were in New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u13	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u14	Analogy! The angel...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u15	The Centre Union, the EPE and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u16	Yes, just in those ten thousand, unfortunately or happily, for people - they were minorities. With the Angel Spiritual, we were in prison together. He was a democracy fighter who was on the right-wing party. We shouldn't go to personal reports. The people did not see - the darkening of the junta was dominated - and the first organisations born from the left political parties, organisations that caught a wide range of politics, from the left with all shades to the right. There have been resistance organisations that have been arrested and others not, which have expressed a part of the urban perception, the urban political direction. It's an honor to everyone who fought! So there was preparation. Already in '71-year, I was arrested, but it doesn't matter - it seemed to us that we were active students in the student movement that something new is born. We didn't live it because some of us were in jail. However, we had the luck with the Amnesty of '73s living the Polytechnic in Athens - those who were in Athens - and others in other cities. The Polytechnic is coming to answer some questions that are also being raised today, such as 'why doesn't the people do that?', 'why doesn't the other one do?', 'why doesn't he go down the streets?'. The movements that lead to insurrectional situations are not made on demand. I will not tell the people 'down today' and go down. No one believed in May 2011, when the demonstrations started in Syntagma Square, that they might take this land. No one believed in any of the things that have been done. There is therefore a debate - and Mr Javarras has said very well - about the fact that all resistance traditions go subcutaneously into society and do not seem. They don't need to hit drums to do the follow-up and give up the riots that society needs. A lot could be said about the moment the students and other participants, such as workers and farmers, the Polytechnic and other places in Athens, became an uprising. It's happening at a time when, for the time we lived, it seemed paradoxical that the polytechnic is now that the junta goes to change. It's ruined the sprinkler. To avoid misunderstanding, it ruined what they said at the time as a success, as a success, as a success, that we brought democracy, we abolished the 'left', 'centre' and 'right', and everyone is the same. Of course, the left until '73 was in prison and exile, as were those struggling from the other political forces and giving their lives to the tortures of the EBRD - ESDP. Still, the Polytechnic is done. Social games don't take place on order. Social struggles are not because someone wants it or because someone feels that he is the owner of social struggles and the only pioneer. There are the underground currents of traditions that circulate and when the moment ripens, peoples rise up and do polytechnics. I will not forget on Tuesday afternoon - be careful, Friday is the Polytechnic, Wednesday there was a first convention - my students at the Cemetery tell me - because they knew who I was - 'Come to the Polytechnic, we'll have a convention to prepare a great occupation'. Be careful - because many say that it was completely accidental - there is the spontaneous one in a movement, but there are many forces organised, persecuted by the police, persecuted by security. When I was caught, I was ravaged to know what the Pan-inspired is doing, the King Ferraion ECON does, what the so-called organization does, what the PAK does, if we have contacts, if we know them. There were organized forces preparing races. No one, when preparing a race, knows what will be the final form of expression of this race. Did the Polytechnic set targets? He set targets. The objectives of the Polytechnics if we say that it was the ‘Psalm - Freedom -’ - but it was not just that, why did it also set targets for socialism, for another society - if we concentrate it there, why are they opportune and not just today? The whole period was up-to-date and will be up-to-date as long as a capitalist concept of education is dominated, for example, that education should be controlled, only draw out craftsmen, workers, tools of a productive process. The demand for education is revolutionary in itself, because it is education that enables a people to understand where society is going. It is education that gives the people and the indignant and rebellious young people the opportunity to choose forms of struggle such as this, which are not destructive, not intolerance, it is not blind. It is education that enables people to move forward and not lead to blind violence like what we see happens. I hear from the news that foxes, unemployed children in the northern suburbs of Paris were half of these terrorists. If they had education, they would never choose religious fanaticism. If they had education, they would never choose a blind blow that is against their goals. Because if their goal is to stop war and not to be unfairly killed in their homelands, then they have been wrong, because this policy is being strengthened. If their goal was to have anxieties, to be able to express their feelings of religion, they have again lost. Because these goals put the power and transfer it to the right-wing arrow of societies and when societies become far-right, freedoms disappear. So the "Psalm", always the man will ask for it, he will seek prosperity. Whether he has a dish to eat or not, as he has now, he will always ask for it and ask for freedom. Man will be completed as a man only when he conquers true freedom, which means he can live according to his ideas, according to his religious feelings, with his beliefs, without anyone bothering him and without anyone bothering him. It's a long dream. People may be dreaming about this millennium now, but this is the goal of freedom, and it is not the lack of a junta, because I felt very free in the junta. Why? Because I had decided that since I am committed to democracy and freedom, I will fight. And I fought for it. That fills you with freedom. Freedom is a much greater demand of the weather. Also, the University showed something else that some do not understand today nor then: the uprisings, the movements, the simplest ones do not own. Anyone who is called the owner of the expression of the truth, who anoints himself to the owner of revolutionary and rebellious processes, is probably out of them, probably wants to control them, probably wants to rid them and guide them. The game of the Polytechnic is unique, because it took place in a moment, it happened at a time when everything showed that we were going elsewhere. Fortunately, however, societies react and fight with their own sensors. And this race gave rise to the start of the junta's downfall process. Of course, he did not want to succeed in overthrowing the junta. Because if we had gone to the overthrow of the junta, we would have had a better and more democratic and more forward-looking transformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Nico Manio. I call to Stepma Kostas Scandalidis, my colleague from the Democratic Incorporation. And the one with his experiences.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in our troubled times, returning to the past has no meaning to do with obsolete anniversarys and short-term reasons. Much more, it makes no sense for any attempt to peculiarize large and such events of a nationwide calibre. Anniversary such as the one we are honouring today requires historical openness and a measure. It is true that the time distance from events of those days helps us. In the past, we come back to draw strength. Memory is only power when it fertilizes and validates our act of today and tomorrow. The Polytechnic, forty-two years later, remains an unsurpassed symbol of struggle and resistance to authoritarianism and tyranny. The children who were closed down those days in his place had no weapons, they weren't terrorists, they didn't kill, they didn't even endanger human lives. They didn't feel the need to fire themselves for their ideas. They resisted the amphitheaters with their word, butts and concerts with their songs, torture and persecution with their heartbeat. And they finally paid with their blood that resistance. They didn't just want to tear down a junta. They wanted something much bigger and taller: to build a different Greece with democracy, justice and independence. Thus, the Polytechnic School added a link to the chain of struggles for constitutional patriotism, for urban modernisation, for national resistance matches and for 1-1-4 and 15% for education. This chain marks all along the way of the modern Greek state the eternal struggle of progress against maintenance, regression, authoritarianism. Some people compare it to May of '68. The two facts are indeed linked by questioning and resistance to authoritarian power, the need to break down the old. The Polytechnics Institute, however, radically differentiates the wording of a national profession. The motto "Psomi - Childhood - Freedom" condenses a pan-democratic and national demand, a universal requirement, in which I am surrounded is the request for national independence, so that Greece will finally belong to the Greeks. That is why it was inextricably linked to the post-political political scene. And it was connected far deeper than what the previous speakers meant. Literally, the post-cultural political scene and the creation of the parties was built on the generation of the Polytechnic, as well as the evolution and evolution of the parties. Ladies and gentlemen, today from a time-consuming distance, which is now half-century, we can be more objective judges of the epic who wrote children with imprisoned dreams but with free mind and high ideals. What's left of that generation? Some, it is true, have been kept on the margin modest and anonymous to maintain their memory with respect. Some chose their personal and professional career and emerged through it, keeping it well within them all that they lived. And some, many, many, continued from new places to take flesh and bone visions and goals. The latter are accused of being "harmed", of redeeming their struggle, of taking advantage of the legacy of resistance, of taking advantage of the philosopher of their glory. I can assure you with all its strength that without this generation Greece of Greeks and of Europe could not be built later. But at the same time, I can recognize the natural time of things. They won office, headlines in the parties, tasted ministerial positions, dominated representative institutions and - yes - product integrated in many of them in power and management structures. This is how it happens every time with the generation that resists. That's what happened in May of '68. That's the way it happened with the Polytechnic. Of course, I am not talking about the jury, the smugglers, the exotics, all the opportunistic opportunities that are hatched in the courtyards and in the centers of power. However, these are not a prestigious reason to cancel the epidemic counterfeiters of history, pounding and dictatorial remnants, the one-generation struggle, to unleash the epic they have created and to erase their brave act, their dynamic and hopeful resistance to tyranny from the deltas of history. What happened to the targets? I am not ashamed of Greece of post-population, which is now finally closing its historical cycle. I am not ashamed of the struggles of a people, of a party, of a movement, which in the decades afterward firmly established democracy, attributed Greece to the Greeks, more rightly shared wealth and brought the country to the center of European developments. I am sure that the historian, as well as the present, but above all the future, will positively appreciate this historical cycle. Of course, I must apologise for what has not been done, for what we have left half-finished, for what we have not dared, for what has been established in the struggles for progress and collective prosperity, for what still allows controversy and biasing logic of returning to the past. That's all I have to apologize for. I will not, however, give the altar of the economic crisis and the current tolerance of four decades, which the country likewise has never lived in, the very cynical course of the creation of the modern Greek state. Above all, I refuse to submit to the sirens of new divisions now coming from far behind, far behind, from an outdated definitive past. Today the objectives remain the same and incomprehensible. "Bread" means justice and prosperity. "Education" means knowledge and modern productive power of wealth. "Freedom" means a new boom of democracy, a new era of humanism and regeneration, starting with our natural cultural and historical space, Europe. However, before we get there to start with. Greece of the memorials and the debt crisis can only be a break on our historic route. It cannot be our vision that the depressive and fatalist acceptance of the country's tertiary worldization is either made in the name of the Right or made in the name of any Left, the first or the next Left. That is what our children, our children, who have grown up, must think about in the hurdle of post-political stability and prosperity, perhaps even of our paradox and awkward blissful bliss, the children who have been armed with knowledge, who have become the most valuable national capital, which are today looking for their fate where land and for which we owe the main responsibility. And, of course, to recognise the dominant problem of our times manifested in the most acute way in our region, focusing on the refugee and the mass movement of populations, which is the biggest and most acute global problem. There's an unspeakable war. The Greeks must protect our country. They must never see us again unarmed and unorganized, as in the Polytechnic era, when the criminal betrayal of the junta led to the Cyprus tragedy. Separate this problem in the most unequivocal way with the resurgence of terrorism, which requires a much more modern and cost-effective security policy, and which is certainly linked to the resolution of the problems in our neighbourhood. You know, Athens is far closer to Damascus than in Paris. The strategic arrangements that are being attempted and the geostrategic interests that are currently conflicting must be subject to the need for a definitive and fair settlement and our country must be brought into the forefront of this effort without obsessed, illusions and bumpers, above all, to eliminate in every way any risk that is lagging behind for a new national adventure, for a new amputation. That is why brave internal reconversion of the country is required, and a new stirring speech, which, unfortunately, is not carried out by the parties of post-multipleism and their development. A new national strategy, articulated in time and place, which will build the popular unity on a new promise and set up the processes, should open the cycle of the new era. It is to be the dawn of the fourth Greek democracy, if we all admit that the cycle of post-multi-population, as we say, has finally been closed since 1994. Unfortunately, the reason we use is always the same and unchangeable. At first, when the junta fell, and that great effort began, he was so alive and innovative, that he would become corrupt and outdated today. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of what he writes does not erase. He does not accept limitations and concessions. It's times when you're forced to choose the sound silence when everyone around you calls inseparable verbs. It's times when you choose a cry when despair and impasse wrap you. Neither silence nor outcry are today enough. They overcome events, the voyage of the upcoming ones goes beyond them. It is time to choose a way, to choose the idea that moves things forward, yes, the utopia that inspires a modern vision of Hellenism, which consolidates a faith, which gives rise to a hope and to transform it into a common national strategy. Let us trace this path to today's darkness and follow it, with the new generation again ahead of the needs and expectations of a people, a nation with a three-year journey, with the new generation that will build the new historical cycle and without it the new historical cycle cannot be built. It's our highest debt to our homeland and, if you want something, it's my generation's last debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much Mr Costas Scandalidis. Mr Yiannis Giokas, my colleague from the JRC, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, forty-two years will be completed this year by the heroic rise of the people and youth in November 1973. Today's anniversary undeniably brings to mind all and all who died in the difficult years of the seven-year-old dictatorship, people who were tortured, exiled, imprisoned, imprisoned, and persecuted by a thousand ways by the junta and state repression. We honor the thousands of fight fighters against the dictatorship, especially as many as in the coming years have continued and continue the struggle from the same time. As a Communist Party of Greece, we are proud of the members and members of the party, of the Knites and of the Knits, of the members of the ANTA - U.S.A. - who took part in the anti-digital struggle, of the hard struggle, of the resistance of the people and of the youth, of the international solidarity in the anti-digital struggle, to break fear, compromise and fatalism, anti-communism, which was the official ideology of the military dictatorship, the state and the urban parties and before the dictatorship. The uprising of November, the occupation of the law that preceded it, in total the anti-dictatorial struggle against the military dictatorship imposed together by pluralism and NATO, is an insurmountable source of inspiration for the value of the organized struggle of the people and youth. This struggle faced the positions of compromise with the dictatorship, which were then cultivating various powers, on the basis of the liberal mask attempted by the junta. The heroic uprising of youth and workers, although it did not succeed in overthrowing the junction, gave an important internal and international blow to the forces that supported the dictatorship. Today, forty - two years later, the messages, the lessons of this uprising remain timely and useful. Not because this is commonly said in such anniversaries as a cliché, but because life itself, reality itself makes them timely and useful. When we talk about the messages of the uproar, we mean the real messages and slogans, those written at the gate of the Polytechnic and the illegal announcements, not those that distortion, silence and historical counterfeiting appear every time to justify the subsequent anti-population policy of parties and governments. Today, forty-two years later, the struggle for 'Psalm - Freedom' - on workers' rights, namely - is at the forefront of the line and means the dislocation, overthrowing of the attack on workers, who, in the form of memoranda, have unleashed the capital, the European Union, governments and parties that serve the rotting capitalist system. This attack is intended to load the people with the capitalist crisis, the management of the state debt, for which workers are not responsible, in order to recover the economy of capital, to get out of capital and profits from the crisis as much as possible. Today, forty-two years later, the slogan 'Outside the United States and NATO', which was forgotten by the other speeches we have heard today, the Prime Minister and the Minister - because there was this slogan in those days of November - remains as alive as ever, because the country remains committed to the same agencies that are responsible for both the imposition of the dictatorship and the Turkish invasion and occupation of Cyprus and the constant questioning and undermining of the country's sovereign rights throughout this period. Because today our people are at risk of being involved in new imperialist wars and interventions in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East, in the context of competition for the control of rich production sources and roads. This risk is growing even further after the latest developments, following the murderous criminal attacks in Paris. In addition to the specific condemnation of attacks and solidarity with the French people, there is the crucial issue, namely that such attacks are exploited on the one hand for the intensity of the repression of police empire, racism and xenophobia and, on the other, for the escalation of imperialist wars and interventions in the name of terrorism, but with the real aim of raw materials and the roads to the transport of oil and gas. It is also a huge illusion to believe that those who created the problem can also solve it. Let us finally finish with the hypocrisy of some who today break their clothes on the occasion of the "Islamic State", when they are the main responsible for its creation. The "Islamic State", this monstrosity, is a creation of the United States, NATO, the European Union, their governments. They supported all these years, financed and equipped various groups in the framework of the so-called Syrian opposition that was then baptized "Arab Spring" with the assistance of political forces from our country. They are the same governments that have supported or tolerated citizens of their countries to go to fight against the Syrian Government and today they are taking advantage of the attacks in Paris, the blood of the French people, which was spilled by their own creation, to launch their deepest involvement in the developments in the Middle East, not because the pain caught them, but to ensure that the profits of the great competition that exists in the region are shared by them. The people of Europe, the Greek people, must be alert and vigilant, not to legalise new military interventions, which will not solve, but will giggle the problem, as the interventions in Afghanistan, Iraq, which have been made with the same pretexts, and today the situation has deteriorated. As far as the Greek people are concerned, it should not make it possible to legalise our country's involvement in such dangerous planning that the government is prepared to assist. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC described the change in July 1974 as a result of the compromise between the junta and the civil political forces. The dictatorship collapsed at the expense of the general outcry that caused a series of events topped by the Polytechnic and its dead, and then by the fury coup against President Makarios, followed by the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. The compromise, with the direct involvement of American and American forces, was made to avoid difficult controlled reactions of the folk factor and to address developments in Greek-Turkish relations due to the Cyprus issue. The transition from the military dictatorship to the Urban Parliamentary Republic in July '74 did not give a substantial and definitive solution to the popular problems of poverty, unemployment, the continuing undermining of popular rights and freedoms. What our people have been living in the last seven years of the economic crisis, taken back rights and conquests for decades, is not a bad management of the years of post-multipleism, a maliciousness of the political system, as all other parties claim. Of course the JRC since its establishment always, today, is struggling every day for conquests, rights, freedoms as far as possible within the capitalist system. And after the dictatorship, in 1974, he sought and succeeded in legitimising it after twenty-seven years of continuous illegality, exploiting the retreat of anti-communism which the then-government Karamanlis could not ignore. At the same time, however, we cannot ignore and much more we cannot hide from the people that any concessions from the workforce are being seconded into the capitalist system are temporary. It is always under constant question and undermining. Much more so that today the system itself cannot make the concessions it made in the past and in post-government times through a different management and a different global association of power that was then in existence in the Soviet Union and other socialist countries. It turns out that those governments who choose to manage this rotten system and its laws will inevitably follow anti-popular policies. As long as the real power has it in capital and urban order, there will be crises, unemployment, austerity, poverty, wars, refugee, the monster of fascism. Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC, on the occasion of today and today, invites the mass organizations, teachers, artists, any progressive man, to take the lead in learning the young and young, above all, above all, students, young workers, the truth about the uprising of November '73. Learn about the role played by the military dictatorship in defending the interests of US and NATO pluralism, the Turkish invasion and occupation in Cyprus. To condemn and isolate even more decisively the Nazi Golden Dawn, praising the military dictatorship and slandering at every opportunity the anti-dictatorial struggle of the people and youth. Today the racing celebration of the Polytechnic insurrection, after the recent totalitarian strike on November 12th, can mark the further restoration of the working people and youth, the escalation of the labour struggle against the political government and the European Union, which continues to bleed the people. The experience of the last forty-two years, from the revolt of the Polytechnic and the fall of the junta a year later, shows that the real issue of the working class, the other popular strata, at every historical turning point, is the concentration of forces in the struggle against monopolies, imperialist associations, capitalism, with the aim of working people's power, socialism. So only the struggle that is now developing in the territory of the more prosperous problems will be made more effective, will be able to counter measures, to divert conquests, in other words, when it targets capitalist power and property itself, without being caught in the support of management governments, whatever the sign they have. Our people now have the experience and the right to fight in such a direction, and above all they have the power to impose such a prospect, which will really be for their benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. I would ask those of my fellow Members who have written and will then speak, after the end of the cycle, to prepare themselves for five minutes and not seven minutes, because there is a Conference of Presidents after other functions of this House. We're going to take it by about 13:30, but we're gonna set time together. I would ask Mr Mavrota, on behalf of the river, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Unlike most of the previous colleagues, my speech will not have an experiential character - I could not have been six years in November of '73 - but it will be an attempt on a bridge with today and see how the '73' messages are translated into these days. This year, then, we close forty-two years since November 1973, when the motto "Bread, Childhood, Freedom" sounded on the streets around the Polytechnic, from students, workers and students. The participants in these events are now approaching the retirement age, they have children and many grandchildren. In the years that followed, some came to the fore by careering politics, others - most of them - humbly stayed outside the paths of politics, keeping these moments for themselves. I had some teachers and now colleagues and I have been told stories. They had courage, they had boldness, it was a fight at a price for the participants, which is why we are honouring them today. We hear every year that the motto "Bread, Childhood, Freedom" is now more timely than ever. Three words that marked the entire Migration. But today, what exactly do they symbolize? Do they maintain their strength? Bread: In a poor Greece it was then symbolized by decent living, something that has begun to be called upon again today for a number of our fellow citizens. Education: Requested then, now and again. Today, however, the problem is not quantitative, as at the time, but qualitative. Freedom: Maximum request then, basic acquis today. As long as some of the previous years spoke about junkers and so on, the truth is that freedom and democracy in Greece have gained strong roots in the last forty years, but roots which are undermined by the economic crisis. But if we wanted to find a similar new slogan today that would express with three words the agony of a new man, I would only change the last word. Instead of 'freedom', I would put 'justice'. In the last forty years freedom has been established in society, but justice has not. However, let us take them from the outset, because these three elements are timely. The "bread", the first synthetic of the slogan, is now translated into work, which is the number one question nowadays. With unemployment rates in young people touching 50%, it is natural that it is their permanent nightmare even of the students. Public positions are dry, large businesses gather and small ones close after the other. Previously, things were lined up: I study, I finish, I find a job. Now, things aren't like that. Our environment is less static. It's not enough to do things right anymore, but you have to do the right things. It is not enough, that is, to repeat, but also to innovate, and that inevitably involves testing and error, it contains boldness, it contains a risk. The second synthetic, the 'education'. Education is always a question, especially in the days of the crisis. And if we need jobs to get out of the crisis, so we don't have to get into school again. Really schools, however, that will form responsible citizens with supplies and crisis, who will learn you how to learn and not how to know all and real universities open to the world and society and not organised minority chips and homes of transaction. We must slowly pass through the surface of the substance, or else pass through the papers on the letters, focus not on what the diplomas and degrees write, but on what knowledge they hide from the back. 'justice' is the third synthetic of the new slogan in the place of 'freedom'. When I say 'justice', I do not mean the courts, but justice in society, equal opportunities, dignity, transparency, accountability, equality and everything we have put under the carpet for the last 40 years. Why? Because there is a client system that is not easily rooted, which has made citizens customers, which has hampered society in the minds that there is a way and not any effort, which has convinced you to move forward according to your acquaintance and not depending on your value. We are honouring today the role of the Polytechnic in '73. Let's see what his role is in 2015, as I see him from within. Our universities must stop fighting backs: if they have electronic elections, how much the student's vote will count, get another degree examination period, how we do the self-declared, unintentional and so on. In particular, the Polytechnics School must play a leading role, as it had done in '73, it must become part of the solution rather than of the crisis. Today, it is a question of re-production in Greece. Today's Polytechnic must be one of the horses that will pull the car. It is what has to play its role again in the country's productive reconstruction and whenever the word 'production' is heard, behind it is a engineer. The Polytechnics, then, gathers every year an important part of the fringe, one of the best Greek minds. What for? Not only to send them out, but also to exploit their potential in our country. Unfortunately, if you talk to our young people today, their vision includes only abroad. The intellectual capital we lose has a greater impact than any money. Who's staying in Greece to change it? The memorials and the troika will once leave. It should begin to produce something in this country at last. We are not, of course, going to become an industrial superpower, but neither can we be a single country of services. We can use our comparative advantages. The value is not only created by quantity, but also by quality, and we already have examples of such Greek businesses. Innovation and entrepreneurship must enter the vocabulary of the new engineers at the University in order to create jobs. In a knowledge-based economy, these will now be the stars. The student of the University of Polytechnic 2015 differs from that of 1973. Other seasons, other performances, other needs. But what they certainly have in common is the abilities and thirst for evolution. I see the longing for kids who enter as first-years turning into boredom with the prevalent conditions. Hospitable buildings, poorly preserved and dirty, crowded in amphitheaters, some indifferent teachers, occupations, lost hours, lost opportunities. After a while, all they care about is how they get the paper or leave, in fact, several without the paper box. What do we do about them? The University played its important role in 1973. If we want to play its important role, and in 2023, 50 years later, that is, we need to set a target. Being within a hundred better universities in the world. Maybe. There's no money in the state at least. But they do exist. Take out all the bureaucratic wires that keep evolution from happening. Give incentives to interconnect with production, the economy. Develop innovation and entrepreneurship. Do not keep research on shelf and papers, but make products and services useful to society. We've made suggestions on the river. We are waiting for the famous dialogue to which the Prime Minister referred a moment ago to testify. 'Psalm - Education - Freedom', then. And speaking of freedom, I cannot stand up to what tragically they played in Paris a few days ago, but also to what is being done. In the past, freedom was at risk from the funky tanks, now from the kalashnikovs of fanatics throwing in the search, as well as from the intolerance that it prescribes. The fundamentalism, which we saw a few days ago in Paris, threatens open societies, threatens democracy, threatens freedom, for which they were raised at the Polytechnic University. This year's message must also be a message of solidarity with the French people, who in the dark years of the junta showed their own solidarity with the Greeks. To give the message of commitment to a free, open society that such events must not fragment it. To give the message that the principles of European culture may be injured by the bullets of the kalashnikovs, but do not die. For these reasons, we suggested that some of the polytechnics' courses this year be different, have a distinctive character, be against intolerance, against fear, against extremes. Finally, I should like to address some of the issues of topical and urgent subjects of major importance. The deal's off. There will be new bills in the House, they will be voted on, evaluated and the green light will be given to start the recapitalisation of the banks and open up the capital of debt write-off. It is a chain reaction from which, however, there is an important stage. Who will implement the transformation that is necessary? This is where a decision is needed. Changing and not washing. The government must believe that changes are necessary and do not promise to return to the past. Bridges are cut. We've got to get out of the way. We can't take off on foot in the brake. We're wasting time, we're losing opportunities, we're losing strength. The government gives the impression that it leads by looking at mirrors permanently, as if it were ready to do the reversal, thus intensifying the destructive uncertainty. What I see to be most interested in is the communication management and manipulation of emotion. But I rule, it doesn't mean I'm moved, but I move, I move things. Here we have a dangerous immorality. I do not mean appointing, but I define what needs to be done, and I do, with the right people, objectives, timetables, results, evaluation. I rule means action, not attitude. I rule, it means sometimes, and I break eggs. History, however, shows that, in order to make the major reforms, great consensus is needed. He's looking for them? Oh, no. Does he want them? At least that's not what it looks like for now. Why? Because alone she can remain still, pretending to be coming back. We must understand that the sustainable solution to Greece's problem cannot come from outsiders. He won't be exogenous, as many people think. The sustainable solution will, above all, be endogenous. He's coming from us. We must decide that we must make the reforms needed for the many, not the ones that suit the few. We in Potami are in the interests of the unattractive, young, unemployed, the heroic private sector, the civil servant who sees him pass, because he does not have a party tooth, the businessman who does not want to lick party aprons to do his job. So these invisible people are our big bet because that is where we will be judged, that is, how we will achieve economic recovery, ensuring social cohesion. This can only be done with merit, equality, transparency and equal opportunities, the great, that is, enemies of a client state. I'm going back to the subject, the Polytechnic, and a slogan written in a wall of our school, the Chemical Engineering, the Polytechnic Painting School, and I remember it since I entered as a first-year student. It expresses with only four words all the anxiety of our student and not just youth. The motto says: “The Polytechnic is alive. We're the ones.' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u23	I am very grateful to my colleague Mr Mavrotas for having made his own struggles and much younger and representing him as the leader of the National Pole in the Olympic Games many times in the country, but also as an international scientist at the Polytechnic in recent years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u25	Mr Thanasis Papachristopoulos has the floor on the part of the ANELs for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Forgive me for a different reference at that time and those days. I would like to remind you that about ten months ago, in February 1973, a truly massive - the first mass - reaction to the dictatorship in the law building had taken precedence. Very briefly and quickly I would like to remind you that Kenich and Sheriff were two R.A.s who were killing anti-resistance students at the time. One of them was the Mavrogen Dionysus - the old will remember him - who was a trade unionist of physics. They even dived Ioanna Karystiani at that time and heard she was tortured. Liapis mingled, the prosecutor of military justice, and disobediently gave sentences to the military courts at that time. The great fighter Panagulis and Mustaklis were tortured in detentions or security or military justice. And a large portion of students, Makis Balaouras, Andreas Nefeloudis, Nikos Manios, Nadia Valavani will remember them, they would go "their assumption" to the security where they met either Carapaggiotis or Mallios or Babalis or Kalyvas. We spent a period of nine months then, I think, shocking about the student movement and it's an honor for those who took part, no matter what course they followed. I would like to remind you that at the time the tank broke into the Polytechnic, the Lieutenant General, Gounelas, and others who don't remember them say: "Who is your leader?" There's a young man then, Costas Laliotis, who could well be fucked then. No one knew. We remember that Franco lasted thirty-five years and Salazar forty. We did not know then what happened, namely that Ioannides has taken over and that this story will end with the events of Cyprus. I would also like to remind you that Mitsos Papachristos with cries of agony that night, begged the ghosts not to hurt us, that we were brothers and other truly united. None of us had guns, they had anything. I would also like to remind you of the missing heroes that no one has ever mentioned to them who have never gone to cash that action. One of them was Eleni Anastasios, who kept the main entrance at that time and went to change it with Noda Katsouula, a student of Laliotis, and banned us in a very acute way, even though it was always noble and which we met forty years later without knowing who she is. I would also like to remind Dimitris Kotulas, the founder of the 2nd Panelladikos, who accidentally crashed him six to seven years ago to do on-calls to complete his income, a great fighter at that time or Fotis Karnasopoulos and other children. It was a time of shock, in my opinion. Many of the fighters at that time followed a course that I respect and I do not criticise today. I share Kostas Scandalidis' view that some have taken office - I believe we are all - but some have never gone to cash these cards. They went to work, worked in their jobs, and they went out and said. This is where a big question arises. For me and for a large part it is an honor that we participated in these events. It's a great honor. Some followed his messages, others changed. Their right. But I mean, he got a little bit of a clean for a generation. I remember Manos Sotiriadis, the King's first secretary to whom we secretly went home many times - what do we say, what do we do? - Alekos Gioroglou, who was fiercely tortured in Gentie Koule, Alekos Sakellaris, Nikos Sophos who left immediately after the legal events, because they were at stake at the time of the dictatorship, as many of us after the Polytechnic events of the Polytechnic school left and we went to fanatics to escape from the fall of the dictatorship. I'm telling you, I'm the last person to make an emotional approach to these events. To me it's a great honor, I still carry it within me, and I think Nikos Manios also carries it, and Makis Balaouras and other children. But I want to raise a point about the events that took place three days ago in Paris. Let me take another approach. A large part, I believe, of the problem of responsibility that has been made in Syria and not only in Syria, has been done before in Afghanistan, beforehand, by the Western societies. I'm sorry to say that. Creation is this whole history of Western societies and poor choices. A large part of these kids are marginalized. Most of them have knowledge of the internet unbelievable. The organisations, Al-Qaeda and this one, ISIS, may be different, but I think they too had an incredible specialization in the media, communication, etc., as we saw in the Twin Towers - some badly rejoiced at the time, because "when winds sow you will reap storms" - as they now see in the ISIS, where the cut heads are cut and go by saying. I think it has a great social dimension and it needs to be resolved quickly, very quickly. I think nothing bad is good. I would be happy to see both China and Russia and the United States and France and Great Britain homogeneously. We know how ISIS is strengthened, how it moves illegal oil that leaves him and gets, how it's funded and how some companies sell guns. When you're easily accessible, when you have ten degrees, when you live in the margin of Paris, I can easily fix your mind with "Islam", with whatever you want. I agree with the representative of the JRC, who is now missing, that the most is the misery and the economic reasons why these children are militant and we see what we see. As far as our country is concerned - and I will not have much time, Mr President - I am sorry to say this, but we are currently living in a country that is on its verge of not having a good result. I want to remind you that OXFAM has said that eighty-six tycoons on the planet have assets as much as three and a half poorer billion on the planet. This is no longer injustice, this is a distortion of reality. I would like to remind you that offshores are faded, one way of legalized stealing, and no one controls them. I would like to remind you that the economy is considered a causal economy with some derivatives, some strange things. So we used to know that someone has a factory, exploits the workers, but in any case we saw them. Here with a move, one might be rich. Incredible things that have made richer and less richer and poorer and impoverished. Can we as a small country reverse this path? Of course not. But what can we do? In our house, we'll put order. I am sorry to say, a small elite then took advantage of the facts of the Polytechnic. I'm not leveling, it's getting good. There was a democracy to a large extent, but unfortunately a large part of it was carved up by a small company, an elite, I would call it a very polite way. So it's a sacred obligation for all of us in here. And I don't stand out for anyone. I would even like to remind Paul Bakoyannis, who was so helpful to us at that time by the German 'DEUTSCHE WELLE'. He was a lighthouse for us at the time. So I want to say that it is up to us to do some things, with whatever differences we have. It's not a bad thing to be different. I believe - I will say something very often - about the election of the President of the New Democracy, that the better this institution will be, the better the government will have to do. That's what I should see, and that's what I think. And I hope the best guy gets out to force us to get better. It is therefore a sacred obligation for the Parliamentary Republic to function in our country. I don't want to blame responsibility. Three million uninsured are now, one and a half million unemployed are now, over two million below the poverty line now, three hundred thousands of children have left abroad without prospects now. But it's not the time for them. It's a special day today. We have a sacred obligation to have proper speeches, political speeches, with differences, with disagreements, but proper political speeches, which will not multiply and will not be exploited. Let's say the refugee that burns us right now, we know it's a global issue now. He overrun our country. You're not allowed to play with this right now for voting reasons. We know there's been seven hundred thousand people. What is the possibility of little Elladitsa with its geographical location? To conclude, I would like to say that it is up to us to lay the foundations for a genuine Parliamentary Republic, to get away from the partisanism and the old diseases that have been afflicted us, to fight for transparency with nails and teeth, to fight the morality and course of every politician here. Because we're really not all the same. We were shocked when we were comrades with Nikos Manios, when we found out he was putting bombs in the dictatorship and diving him and putting him in. We're not all the same. This does not mean, however, that we cannot improve. Thank you so much for listening. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. I call on Mr Mario Georgiadis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to step in. It's the last of the speakers' circles, and then we'll have a few speeches. Half were today those who had lived the facts and those who are younger and were born then, shortly before or shortly thereafter, by the Prime Minister. This is important. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u28	Good morning, too. Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, that's true. I hadn't been born at the time for two years. Nevertheless, I have been aware of stories my father has told me all these years and it is a very touching moment for me today. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the events of the Polytechnic are a timeless symbol of values deep rooted in the Greek soul. "It wants virtue and courage," Andreas Calvos will tell us, and that is exactly what will find his practical event in the events of November 17th. All historical testimonies refer to an spontaneous event, something that evolved without strategic and diligent decision-makers. He spoke of the spontaneous reflex of the Greek soul, the Greek youth, which instinctively echoes every totalitarian pursuit, every militaristic mentality. In the early 1960s, the political space of the centre stood the last obstacle to the total pursuits of the old and rotten system of the time. The age of violence and innocence, the great paratrooper and the disabled democracy of the decade before, created a strong will of resistance in Greek society. A comprehensive political demand has now been the real democratisation of Greece. These democratic demands led George Papandreou to overwhelming electoral victories with 42% in 1963 and 53% in 1964. The Union of Centres was finally in power. Citizens were asking for breaths of freedom from police rule, surveillance and intimidation. The straightforward break of George Papandreou with the palace and the huge resonance rates of the Union of Centres in society prescribed a bright future for Greece. The rotten roots of totalitarianism, however, had not broken and the ghosts of the past relived. The kings and the colonists had not said their last words and the seven years of decline had to mark indelibly the newest Greek history. In 1969 our president, Vassilis Leventis, entered the fourth at the National Technical University of Civil Engineering. During the struggle against the regime of dictatorship from 1970 to 1974, in his students years, that is, he held polygraphs and a group of his fellow students, distributed anti-digit notices, calling on the Athenians to uprising. With this action, both Vassilis Leventis himself and other struggling students did not just envision the junta falling. They sought to create a free and fair society, a state with social cohesion, equal opportunities for all, a state which did not account for the origin, origin or order of citizens in order to give it education, health, employment and rights. These visions were then in a large part of the youth and were not distant, controversial utopia. It was a pragmatic pursuit that could soon be carried out. The dictatorship has gone and the historical events are what we all know. We paid it not only with the seven-year plaster of social dismantling, but also with the tragedy of Cyprus. The invasion of Turkish forces in Cyprus was the last dramatic event that practically sealed the political crimes under the Zurich and London Treaties of the Government of Constantine Karamanlis. This terrible military event of the invasion of Cyprus has one thing to remind us: totalitarianism, militarism, dictatorship, nationalism have always led our country, not only in the interior, but also in the loss of land. The so-called 'unlucky' Greek-Turkish war of 1897, the collapse of the Asia Minor front and the subsequent destruction of 1922 were never taught us. We maintained nationalist and populist rhetorics that have always led to the destruction, as if reason and pragmatism were leaving Greece at the time it had to recover and land. So today, what does the Polytechnic anniversary have to say to us in practice and creatively? You will tell me 'to resist'. Deal. Against who? The enemy, you see, is not visible anymore. We have no one against us to threaten us with any weapon. They haven't banned us from traffic on the streets. They haven't exiled us to the Macronese. So who's the enemy? Is it a united Europe? Is it NATO? Is it America, Russia, China? Is the Islamic State with the jihadists or is it Iran and North Korea with their nuclear weapons? Is that afflicted capitalism? Is it the pursuit of the bourgeois society or the anarchist ranks of the collective? Is it the parliamentary presence of nationalism? Who is it, anyway, the enemy in modern democracy? Ladies and gentlemen, one is the enemy: he is our own evil self. We've always fought against him throughout the modern Greek history. We were never destroyed or raised by factors outside of us. Every evil finds us because we leave the door wide open. The Greeks have never been unwittingly the victims of history. Historical disasters came because at specific historical times Greeks chose to play the role of the victim, when they thought they were all lost, that they were tired of struggling above, that nothing is worthy anymore, when they tried to deceive and banish responsibility from above, when they were once blamed by the Americans, once the Russians, once the markets, once the European lenders. But when we get the blame off of us, another well-intentioned man always finds himself on our behalf. And that's when the game is lost for all of us. The Polytechnic was an event of responsibility. It was not the responsibility of someone else to prosecute the dictatorship. It became a personal issue of the middle Greek and in particular of the middle representative of youth. A personal question must be made today about the recovery of our country and about us. No one's saving us. Even the loan contracts that we are currently signing are nothing more than an extension of time. They have never brought a country to prosperity and substantial development by themselves. Prosperity will come when we build a central liberal rule of law, free of paternalistic and arbitrary state interventions. Prosperity will come when the country's genuine productive forces are released, when they acquire space and time to cross the border and conquer the world or better, to be founded in the world. This is not the responsibility of someone else. Each citizen has to take his share of responsibility, choose his representation beyond self-interest, and above all not to be out of his democratic responsibilities, not to become charitable in the hands of others, and let them choose on his behalf. This has to teach us at the University of Polytechnic. To take responsibility for us, to bear its burden and to build our country modern, productive and fair. Those who transfer their responsibilities to others, whether domestic or foreign, are not with us. They won't hold the gates of the modern Polytechnic. At that time, the Polytechnic was done to leave the military junta. Now we need a new Polytechnic, a Polytechnic to gain values that have been lost - democracy in its true sense, justice, iso-state - and to have confidence in the state that today, in our day, is struggling. We are with those responsible, those who will not let the tank pass undisturbed. We love responsibility and the good news is that we find others with us, we become more. The date with the story has already been booked, and we'll all be there! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much Mr. Georgiadis. Mr Theocharis has the floor. I would ask that the next five minutes be observed, and I say that for the next one. I will read which colleagues are left to speak. It is Mr. Theonas, Mr. Theocharopoulos, Mr. Diaras, Mrs. Vageias, Mr. Cavadellas, Mr. Tsironis and Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, at least I did not hear you say that you said about speakers who will be posted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u31	It was not heard, but I said that there would be a card listing of speakers until the end of the speech of the first two representatives of the parties. But now, in other words, if Mr Balauras or Mr Dousinas want to be added. It is such an event that is taking place today and the agenda that we can leave a little bit of the narrow press. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try. Otherwise we prepared, as you can see. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day of mourning and remembrance. We remember the dead heroes of the Polytechnic, but they are also a day of grief of French, European and global. Young victims then, mostly young victims today. But the seasons are not the same. Today we are faced with a blind violence against our culture. We are called upon to address the effects of the instability caused by the major forces at the beginning of 2000 in Iraq. We are called upon to look at the failure of the most important and most interesting political project of our time. The European Union is a project of peace and prosperity, peace and prosperity within its borders, as well as extending them to our neighbourhood. Europe has failed to display the peace, which it has conquered internally, and in neighbouring areas. She even failed inside to bring prosperity. The divisions, xenophobia and now the terror has risen and the war has come to the heart of Europe. Double loser, then. We must go back to our roots, find the internal momentum, élan, which has led so many decades to progress. Many, seeing these failures, reject the European project as a whole. They're wrong. As long as there is a need for solidarity, as long as peace is an end in itself, as long as the protection of the weak becomes an urgent necessity, as long as excellence and effort must be recognised and rewarded, Europe as an idea, as a force, as a lighthouse that shows the way is important. We want this Europe and so many other peoples. The vision of this Europe was also sought by the young people of the Polytechnic. They were looking for it in a country that actually belonged to another continent, which then lived under the yoke of the colonel junta. They were looking for bread, education, freedom. Didn't the Transmigration give it away? Do these slogans make sense? And yet, post-population chokes the slippers by closing their cycle painfully and however critical one wants to be, he cannot recognize progress. Bread and prosperity were provided by the Migration. Now it's only taking us back some of the progress. Other indicators return to us in 2005, others return to us in 2000, but in 1974 it seems very distant. For this bread, however, we question everything, because adaptation and austerity have many victims, which we did not manage to protect, as we had to do as we had to. Freedom is certainly founded on it. Recognition of the JRC, the dematerialisation of the Armed Forces, the Constitution, the freedom of the press and the media are undeniable conquests of post-government Greece. However, we have a lack of institutions and, above all, an independent hand-held justice, an independent manipulated public administration. We miss bases for a qualitative step forward. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In education we have the most controversial results, especially in higher education. We have more universities, yes. But better? A few will support the view that everything is going well on in this front. Unfortunately, education is the crucial investment in our future. Our failure there largely explains our rebellion today. So it closes the cycle of post-multiple law-abiding. The false promises, the lies, the excesses, the secret arrangements, the client state, the ruffles, everything that brought us here and still sinking us must be finished. It's coming now! We all have to call it. Only then will we lay the foundations for a new advancement. We will again give the creative forces, the housewives, the followers of common sense. Our country needs a deep reconstruction plan, which I can only describe here. This is a plan that will begin with the self-criticism of the political system, assuming that only through its regeneration can the real change come. Not in the communal tactics about old and new. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Everyone's being evaluated. The experience of governance is a great advantage, but it is secondary to the corruption of power. Everyone needs to be properly evaluated to start with honesty, skill and seriousness. Only then can the reconstruction and progress plan be started, firstly, with a radical constitutional reform without bumping, secondly, with the deep strengthening of the institutions in our country starting with justice, thirdly, with the absolute commitment to emancipation and professionalism of public administration, fourthly, with the strengthening of actions against the dispute, fifthly, with the reduction of bureaucracy, sixthly, with the attraction of productive investment that will bring jobs, seventhly, with the rationalisation of public finances and the reform of the tax system, eighth, with the establishment of a fair system of insurance with three pillars, ninth, with a social state aimed at specific and tangible results and supports the poor, tenth, with the real investment in education. Finally, there must be the insight that the law applies to everyone, however high it may be. If the law is cruel and unfair, parliamentary democracy has ways of correcting it. It is not up to the civil servant or the State official to formulate social policy through the interpretation of the law. The reason is simple: Degeneration comes quickly. The first time we do it for the man who deserves it, the second time for our friend and the third time for the man who pays us. For example, it cannot be in Italy or Turkey that the smoking law operates and here nothing happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Theochari, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President, in ten seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, the days when the political system represented the drones, the lazy ones, the unpaid ones and the enslaved ones must end. Workers who are hurting the operation in which they work, entrepreneurs who do not want to steal the state or the insurance funds, farmers who export and who want to export to the end of the earth, small and medium-sized enterprises who want to adapt and grow, the unemployed who need to find jobs to avoid losing their dignity, pensioners who cannot look at the bank every month and see a different pension amount, the young people who must have hopes to find jobs before 30 are closed, all of them urgently want their voice to be heard. Finally, what was the request behind the 'Psalm - Freedom'? The request was: Respect for personal choices, dignity to living, right to creation and the promotion. The existing political system has not succeeded in giving this to the Greek people and the curse will not stop unless the political system that will give it is found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Theochari. Until Mr. Theonas comes to Stepma, allow me, Mr. Theocharis, to remind you, because I am sure he has not escaped you, that at least one painful indicator, that of unemployment, in 2015, is four times what was in '74. So, as far as indicators are concerned, there is a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u36	Just one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Theonas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first of all like to express the satisfaction that all of us must feel - and congratulate the Bureau and everyone else who has had the initiative to organise this debate - because, apart from the honour it places on the fighters of the Polytechnic and on the fact of the Polytechnic, which is an important historic station in the course of our country and of our people, I believe that the debate that has taken place today also honors the House, because although I have very little experience of the debates in this House, I think it was the best time that I have been a member of the Greek Parliament. In the very short time that I will be dealing with you, I will be following a suggestion by Mr. Javarra, to approach the Polytechnic and his messages based on the truth, and then a suggestion by Prime Minister, comrade Alexis Tsipras. The truth tells us, Mr Javarra, that the political and social forces which emerged after the post-Maciliation were able to follow a course that was initially marked by the personality of the then Minister of Labour, the late Costas Laskaris, who had set himself to abolish the struggle with v. 330. Whoever remembers him is well. Anyone who doesn't remember him, go to read him to see what that law on the labour union movement meant. But that law was overturned very soon. Why? It was reversed because the forces that took part in the Polytechnic uprising, i.e. builders, industrial workers, but also workers from all branches of industry, as well as from the services and bodies of the public sector of the economy, the ILOs, created wrestling bodies, because at the time neither the GFCM leadership nor the ADED leadership could respond to the demands that were made at the time by the Ministry of Labour and the law that it had promoted in order to control effectively or to mobilise, undermine the development of the labour union. So we have created - the older ones will remember them - then the SADEE for the private sector of the economy and the SADO for the public sector itself, which took over the struggle, the struggle, with experience and from the messages that the recent Polytechnics escrowded, and overthrowed the v. 330 and the prospect of abolishing the war of classes and developing struggles across Greece which highlighted both the demands and demands of workers in all specialities and in all areas of action, so that they have beneficial effects on the rights of the working class and the people. The second suggestion, comrade Alexis Tsipras, says to interpret polytechnic's messages and a reference to today. So, can these messages coming from the Polytechnic uprising help the people today and the place to tackle successfully and with satisfaction the people's rights and conquests the problems of today's juncture? I think so, we can see today the messages of the then agonists, who, apart from overthrowing the n. 330, were able with the historic 23rd Conference of the General Confederation of Workers of Greece in 1983 to literally undo the workers who had settled with a representative sent by the Americans to ideologically break the Hellenic Trade Union Movement. However, they were unable to break it down, as happened in Italy, Belgium and Spain, because there were powers here which were fighting this prospect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only say one more word, Comrade President. So as far as today is concerned - I say this in relation to the suggestion made by comrade Alexis - the message is that the struggle of our people's movement must be added to the effort made by the government to reverse the most barbaric measures imposed on the country. Only with the struggle and negotiation of the government can they be dealt with if there is no mass popular movement capable of fighting and fighting to overthrow these barbaric measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u39	Thanks to Yannis Theonas. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor on behalf of the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to honour the Greek Parliament on the anniversary of the student uprising of the Polytechnic in November 1973. I would also like to say that this is an initiative that the Greek Parliament is currently honouring, given that we are discussing the issue openly and of course see what has happened in the past few years. It is a debate that really shows how we can discuss, see things and get together, because today, above all the problems in the Greek society and economy, which are so difficult, we need to be able to discuss and consult. The revolt of the Polytechnic School is always a great democracy for the struggles of the people and youth, as well as an excellent opportunity to strengthen our collective self-awareness, but also for reflection in order to create new struggles. In the particularly difficult times that Greek society experiences, the memories and messages that have evoked the real events of anti-digit resistance remain alive and keep up-to-date. Today the profound economic and social crisis in our country needs another uprising, a new uprising initially for self-evident, and then for young people to be able to create jobs, but also for people of all ages who have been working for years in a stable job and are currently not only in the range of unemployment, but also with poverty ahead of them. We are in a poorer part of the population. These are issues that we must address directly, with social sensitivity and social cohesion. The message of the anti-Declaratory struggle, therefore, must signal the people's widest unity for a direct change of policies in Europe and Greece, for the country's exit from the crisis, for the defence of the weak social strata and for strengthening the institutions of democracy. We will not succeed if we do not have collective action. Forty-two years after the Polytechnic uprising is always a milestone for the struggles of the people and youth. The memories and messages of the uprising show up at the forefront and translate into uninterrupted battle against phenomena of fascism and terrorism. Now that the ghosts of blind fanaticism and terrorism are taking back flesh and bones to safeguard the democratic acquis and the incompatibility of the fight against racism and xenophobia are practical recognition of the polytechnic's contribution to the democratic history of the country, much more these days, after the terrorist attacks at the heart of Europe. And make something clear here. It takes two levels of action: firstly, a ruthless fight against terrorism - and this cannot be done by each country separately, it must be done in the European Union and by the international organisations - but also vigilance, so that we do not have any more phenomena of nationalism, intolerance, xenophobia, and Europe remains a Europe of humanism and enlightenment. Now, then, the struggle for freedom, democracy, social justice and solidarity is more timely than ever. This struggle can only have and will always be based on young people who experience the consequences of deep unemployment and recession. The slogan 'Psamis - Education - Freedom' also has its own meaning today and, unfortunately, not only transport. And we all need to realize that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Poverty has led to the lack of basic needs for many of our fellow humans. In education, there must be a radical change, a reform of the Union as a whole, in consultation and not those fragments and reforms which are coming. There must be a reform of education so as to link it to the labour market, to create new jobs and, of course, to be able to regain its meaning. The young people who rose up, then, heroically against the dictatorship of the colonists and the authoritarianism of the junta fought with all its powers for the demands of an entire people for freedom, democracy, dignity and social justice, social cohesion. This must be the guide for today's new generation and for an optimistic tomorrow. This new generation, therefore, my generation - because I had not been born in 1973-1974, we really pay tribute to those people at the time - and fortunately there are too many in here - had participated in this process and who tried and put collective from the individual. Because that is the message of those years for this new generation that is plagued by the crisis and unemployment, for the generation that must not kneel before the denial of its dreams and the shrinking of its prospects. For this generation, which must not be proved to be a lost generation, but must be inspired by the ideals we are discussing today, the ideals of the polytechnic generation, and a better future. So we remember all those who fought against the seven-year-old military dictatorship, who experienced torture, imprisonment and exile and whose example will block the visions of the new generation. We remove all fascist, racist, xenophobic trait, which appears again in Greek society and see again all those that unite us, those forces, and we actually get power from what had been done in those days, which we remember today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr Georgios Diaras, Member of SYRIZA and spokesman for the Greens in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are forty-two years later, forty-two years after that great rise of youth and then of the people. "Psalm - Childhood - Freedom", what a strong slogan for that time! And behind this slogan there was a general demand for social justice and democracy. I still hear some people say "What changed now?", "And now that we have no junta what happened?", "What was the junta wrong?" and others on this. What was junta best known for those who lived in those years, the years of leaps. We know that those who lived through the deprivation of freedom, those who felt next to us the mole that followed us, those who took the note from the Security that wrote “Your own affairs”, and then Cravaritis, Babalis, Karapanagiotis and the other torturers of the junta. What was our crime? The mole. He'd nailed you because you were talking to your classmates about democracy, about internationalism, about fairness, about peace. A lot of our friends were in jail. A lot of people were tortured. Several people died, like Nikiforos Mandiras. Others remained paralyzed by the tortures in EBA - ESDP. We remember my fighter and compatriot, Spyros Mustaklis. There is some mistake that the junta destroyed corruption. They are the ones who did not know about the "flat", about Ladha and the great corruption and strife that existed in the junta. It is simply in those circumstances that corruption is not revealed, as it is revealed in conditions of democracy. Because then the horror tore them up, and slavery tore them up! And where to remind you of Pattacos' spatial planning and town planning. He gave a slogan: "We increase the rates of structure to get the economy ahead and build wherever you want. Desert and maintainer and historical buildings". And that's what happened then. This is how buildings began to be dismantled. And it gave Greece a structure factor of 30% and 40% increase in the existing one. At that time, complexes were built on beaches and cayalous. I lived in those years of the militant rise of the people, which was a spiritual uprising: Theodorakis, Markopoulos, Leontis, Xylouris, Seferis, Elytis. We read Sicilyan and Richo. We used to go overnight discussing how to get rid of that barbaric junta we had in our head. The people at first were scared. Then he stirred up with the youth. We were associated with the racing traditions of our people, the revolution of '21, the national resistance. We sang "the children of Samarina", who didn't know many, "then the "when he's gonna do barbecue", thieved and rebellious songs. I happened to live in close proximity to events outside the University of Polytechnic those nights. Next to us were wounded fighters and in Egypt's square the machine guns were harvesting. It was a real war. The tanks came down from Wade through Alexandra Avenue. And the inspiration of the Polytechnic station, that voice of Dimitris Papachristos and Maria Damanakis. Then torture, general security, EBA - ESSA. And for EBA, I'll tell you the most shocking thing. At the time women were being tortured, around - around in a yard were the cells. They were tortured at night and the drama of those who were tortured lived in it. And women were tortured and singing songs Theodorakis. How awesome! And they sweared to the torturers and said, "You don't know what you're doing!" These are the most shocking moments: Where does man rise to such a racing outbreak? So we now have a great responsibility, not to compromise, not to settle, not to rejoice in. Continue the fight for social justice, more democracy, real and essential education, against the forces of destruction and societies and the planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Dimitras. Anna Vaguea, a colleague from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Because many colleagues have referred to anonymous people that night, I would like to mention Andreas Chekura, our musician. That night, young lad, standing on an ambulance was constantly coming out of the polytechnic and could be dead. I mention it the name of Andreas Chekura, so for the record. I'll be very brief. I would like to address the young people, the young children of our country, and tell them, to ask them, to ask them to question us. We are here because we questioned some others at that time, the elders. Our only hope is for young people to question us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. The President of the Union of Central Banks, Mr Vassilis Leventis, has the floor. In this series was Mr. Dimitrios Kavaleslas. Mr. Cavadela, you will take the floor and you will take the floor after the Minister, Mr. Tsironi. Mr. Leventis, you have the floor for ten minutes. I would ask that we save time, because we also have the Conference of Presidents afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you and everyone you're here for your kindness to listen to me. We are celebrating today the anniversary of the old Polytechnic of 1973, which has become a routine now. Today I went to testify a wreath I saw there dominating some leftists, and the loudspeaking sounded slogans of the left and especially extremist left. What respect this is for pluralism is another matter. Others, of course, have kicked them out, some of the ministers have yanked them off from what I learned. In any case, young people may not be wrong because today there is a great shortage of bread, education and freedom. There's a great shortage of all three. So a new Polytechnic is in front of us. It's just now it's not the junta and some paranoid colonists. It is now the responsibility of the political system and the establishment, as it works. Then they were all united against the junta. Now, if you go to the cafeterias, they all curse the political parties, the MPs all together and tell me "if you weren't new in the House, the others would take them with the helmet". That's what I'm told at all the cafes all over Greece, and I don't suppose you haven't met. You want a lot of guards to come to the cafes, unless you come to a totally friendly environment. If I lie, disprove me. In any case, you may not know what the Polytechnic was at that time. Five days the Polytechnic School was closed and the junta wouldn't allow food to come in to eat the students. George Black, with two - three policemen known, put food in the Polytechnic, to have children eat at noon. You may not know that. You may not know, too, that when the junta dropped the door, there were two thousand children inside, of whom over five hundred were arrested, and the others fled to neighboring buildings, including me. When I entered the building, where there was a dermatologist I knew, I saw another hundred and fifty with two hundred people inside. Doctors, lawyers and ordinary residents of homes offered shelter. They offered it at risk of their lives, because the junta did a lot of disgrace. If he found out you're hosting students, he could have retaliation. The junta had earlier removed military delays due to study and those who were the most active had sent them to the border in isolated units. It was the first case he had at that time, about seventy people of the Polytechnic, primitive. There were some people inside the Polytechnic. Then others came in, of course. Jumacas came in - we didn't know Jumaca. They were other schools. The people we knew at the time were Vassilis Pentaris, who was a member of the Association of Centres in Chania - now there is no politics - Androylakis, Damanakis. There were four five people who immediately entered the parties, usually the Left, and they came out as MPs. Then in '74 there were new combinations and they could easily go out to MPs. It was not like now that some people have been tampered with in every region and to get out to Chios, you have to defeat a last name MP. Then, immediately after the junta, the House was renewed by a huge percentage, so these people were able to get out of parliamentarians. Also, what the House may not know is that that night there were deaths twice as much as usual. In other words, if, due to normal causes, they died in Athens, sixty to eighty a day, on that day, double and triple were killed in number and doctors with the gun on the head signed advices of death that they came from the heart while describing normal deaths. The junta imposed these fake death certificates while it was death with a bullet. In fact, many brothers and sisters of such deceased, so that families don't talk, the junta put them in public service. I don't know if you know that, but that night there were almost three times the number of victims in Athens, for some people who say there were no victims. However, the biggest victim, ladies and gentlemen, at that time was the people, who, while he thought, defeated the dictatorship, defeated the bonds, that democracy was reborn, found again with planes carrying Karamanlis, with a Andreas Papandreou who returned, found again with some people, who were the old ones who had caused that dystocia, which the junta found as an argument to come. In other words, the tragic situation in this country is that something is being done and then the political system remains as it was, irreparable, irreparable. It's the same now. They are called upon to take us out of the crisis by those who put us in the crisis. But you'll tell me, "SYRIZA, Mr. Leventis, what is it? SYRIZA is a new party." It's not a new party, ladies and gentlemen. It's another outfit of the old PASOK. Don't get any delusional. When all the ministers are from PASOK, when the administrations are from PASOK, SYRIZA is not a new party. So, at the moment, he's trying to get us out of the crisis, a party, which is disguised, the old PASOK, which led us to the crisis with the appointments. Secondly, in other words, dishonesty is happening at the moment in the country: the junta was done and they came before the junta and were imposed on the political system. The bankruptcy is done and they are invited to take us out of the crisis. These are the 'go's' of the political system! I believe that a second Polytechnic is under way. That's what the Centroon Association thinks. A Polytechnic that this time will not accept disguises or the same people returning and giving society the image of renewal. This time youth is asking for solutions, responsibility, seriousness, transparency. I have often spoken in this Chamber about the Members' advisers. I haven't received a reply. I have asked all the elected representatives to go 50% down, as well as the President of the Republic and all the metropolitan people. I haven't received a reply. I'm here talking without text, and the last guy takes them off and reads them, and the next one reads them. So my speech in this Chamber so far, in the two months, is not taken into account, ladies and gentlemen. So my only hope is the people, if they listen. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. The Minister has the floor for five minutes, as a normal speaker. He is also a spokesman for the Greens in the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I can only say that, first of all, the people have honoured me to be here and I am not a representative of the old system. I do not want to list the overwhelming minority of the ministers and Members who have absolutely nothing to do with the old political system. But we didn't come here to talk about it. I take this opportunity to express my warmest sympathy to the relatives of the dead in Lefkada and a support wholeheartedly that we are with them, I imagine, in Parliament. Let me start by saying I'm French these days. As a few weeks ago I was a Turk, as when the twin towers fell, I was American and it's my brothers, the people who are killed in these countries. Every day, unfortunately, I am a Palestinian. Every day, because this horror is old. Why did the Polytechnic finally win a place in history? Because it was a leading moment when the Europe of democracy conflicted with the dark Europe. Because dark Europe is not something foreign, it is nothing that has come from a distance. It is easy for us all to say that democracy has been born in Europe, but we forget that here also the dark Europe has been born, and live proof of the absence here, on the right chairs, of those in the dark Europe, which, of course, prove in their absence to what is different from the rest of Parliament. One point worth mentioning, to be taught - someone had said that the ministers should be taught history and testing - is that the Left prevailed in this movement. It may not have been one-stop shop, but we can only recognise, all the wings of Parliament, that the Left has dominated both the EAW and the resistance against the dark Europe, against Nazism, but also the resistance against the junta. Historical reasons are many. It does not mean that all the fighters were left or that the battle against the dark Europe is a battle that is an exclusive case on the left. I would remind you, however, not to euphoricly mention its fighters, but to emphasise that this is due to the historic fact that major economic interests in the Middle War have fed the dark Europe to cope with the popular movement. It is a reality that we must not forget. It is a reality that should teach today, because the position of the Polytechnic and today is alive. Many people say 'all right, what happened, the junta did not end in '73'. They really say it, 'cause maybe they haven't lived what fear means. What does it mean to fall in love with a girl and don't dare open up, talk to her, because you might say the wrong word that can send your mother to prison. What does it mean to get used to not talking openly. Those who have not lived and who have not grown up - because I was young at the time, but it was all my teenage in the junta - cannot imagine or understand what the children's right today at the Polytechnic school mean, yes, to be juvenile ministers, who did not have it at the time, and many paid for it with their blood. But what concerns us directly today, in the dark Europe, which, unfortunately, is alive and is not only alive in the few forces of Nazism. She's alive when they built a democracy for a few, for few, for few, class and national. We have not given democracy to peoples, such as Afghanistan. We here, in this Europe, have made the ethnic cleansing of our Jewish brothers who have been forced and relocated, hearing, in this nationalist motif, the Zionist one of Israel, which continues to be a greedy wound. We in Europe have given birth to the concept of minorities. With our weapons today, our children, our brothers and sisters died in France. With our own weapons. It's almost a civil war. This fundamentalism doesn't come from somewhere else. Here it is born, here it is the snake's egg, and this is where it was exported to the countries of the Middle East. So it is Nemesis that continues and threatens. And Europe is at a critical crossroads right now. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Unfortunately, even today, there are economic interests, as are then, which continue to play these games that were played and then, before the great war of the '40s. It is the economic interests that are currently playing with democracy in Europe. Let me remind you, therefore, that the European idea, the European Union, was born of illiterate politicians, after a very - very great hemorrhaging. I wish the dead in Paris were entitled to European integration. Relaunch the battle for European integration for a democratic Europe, for a Europe that respects human and the environment. And let me close with a reference. In a few days, we'll all be there in Paris for the climate. It is again a battle against the dark forces that at the moment they do not want to see that hundreds of millions of refugees - not two and three million - will come and die again at the door of this "star" that some dream, who are outside and the few are inside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr Tsironi. Mr. Dimitrios Cavalellas from the Centron Association has the floor. Then Mr. Balaouras, then Mr. Saridis and Mr. Dousinas at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like from the Step of the House to praise the undemocratic Greek soul, the mere Greek citizen who has come against an anti-democratic regime. I want from this sacred Stepma, to honor the dead of the anti-dictatorial struggle. I would particularly like to honor my classmate at the time, Diomedes Konninos, who fell next to me that night, smashed from a rooftop on Epirus Street. The shock for me was great. But I didn't become a bomber, I didn't break windows. I prospered and fought honestly. I - for the record - was arrested next Friday noon, because in the past few days I was reassigned to short radio waves, the voice of the Polytechnic throughout Europe. I remember - I was a kid - hiding under the bed and watching the boots, two españas and one of the officers, whose last name I remember, but I don't want to mention it. At some point I remembered my dead friend. Then I reacted and I was ashamed to hide and went out. I handed them over the transmitter I had in a suitcase hidden. They were arrested and fortunately because the situation was quite unreasonable, I did not have many consequences. The cops were noisy there in the department, and things for me, fortunately, were a little relaxed. In any case, they were not relaxed for others. So Diomedes Konninos, my classmate, the seventeen - year - old child, was not then either Right or Left. It was the voice and resistance of the ordinary Greek. Some have redeemed the sacrifice of Diomedes and so many other honest, unbearable, independent fighters. Some have robbed the spontaneous, greedy, heroic reaction. Polytechnic November 17, forty-two years ago. There, at the side gate, my first few minutes of acquaintance with our President, Vassilis Leventis, who was holding the gate with other fighters. There, because they didn’t police so well, we would go for a few foods, a few medicines, all they could. I had gone there to deliver a show lamp and later fate, me and President Vassilis Leventis and other centralist fighters, brought us back to twenty-five years' struggles for the revival of the Centre. So these fighters have given us a democracy with their sacrifice and their struggles. So we received a democracy in the spasms. Our responsibility therefore is enormous to maintain and improve the democracy that we manage. My impression - and many others too - is that the sacrifice of the Greek fighters has not been successful. There's too much to do. I call upon you all to be responsible, consistently, to bring back to the consciousness of the ordinary Greek citizen - who begins and looks - democratic consciousness. Before I close, I would like to send my regards to the French people who are being tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. I give the floor to Maki Balaura, a SYRIZA MEP and to friends and - I would not say protagonists - present of those events.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, thank you for your words, as I thank other colleagues. Today is a race day, it's neither black nor dark. It's a day of rise. I didn't know I was going to talk, so I wrote some thoughts on paper to talk more and to think, because this day and these messages are coming, it's a lesson for the present and for the future. To start with how we got to the Polytechnics, because many - especially young people - think there was a momentary uprising. It's not like that. They were the big influences since May of '68, they were the influences on the imperialisms of the tortured, they were the retaliatory acts, they were the apologies of trial-seekers who looked like an uproot. It is important in the next phase, perhaps next year, to identify some points that are of interest to either art or other issues and to be able to talk about them. In any case, then, slowly tormenting and difficult to create a movement that it took was an autonomous movement, it was an spontaneous movement. This does not mean, however, that it had no influence on the parties and, above all, on the parties on the left. It was a movement, however, at the same time collective, that was a strong political movement, a fellow movement. There was a knitting - perhaps many times we're looking for her - comradeness. It was - finally - a unified movement but with a clear radical and anti-capitalist mark. It was not a loving unified approach. In the dictatorship, just remembering headlines again, pain, blood prevailed. I would remind you that I had had a few months ago a conversation with some others on 21 April at the initiative of the Ministry of National Defence, at the School of Hope, with a thousand two hundred students of the schools, where we put things down, namely how the military junta was treating not only the ordinary citizen, the worker, the student, who was resisting, but especially how he tortured, preyed, raved, tried to offend Greek officers and some of them, as was immortal Mustaklis, made them "natures" by torture. The authoritarianism of the junta, censorship at all levels, freedom, scandals. A speaker said so. Mr. Leventis thinks we're not watching the speakers. Today, Mr President, I did not like your speech at all. You did not speak on the occasion of his lessons about today, you spoke very popular. You said people don't listen, they don't watch. You have criticised the absence of Members when you do the same. It's a different story, though. So there's the junta scandal. It has led us to the first economic crisis at the time, and at the end of the day it has created Cyprus with the invasion of Attila and with the initiative it has taken to murder - let us not forget this - the elected government and, above all, President Akarios. With the Reformation, unfortunately, the Left assigned its hegemony to other powers, underestimated the class demands that were then formed, entered another new remodeling of the time. So we led to a postpopulation where it gave its mark - sharply indeed - and its mark on the Left, but it had not gone any further. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a moment more, Mr President. And here there's a treacherous undermining of the conquests of post-population. It reminds me of what Sarkozy said as soon as he became President of France: 'Finally, we must end with the May generation of '68'. This is not what our political opponents say, it is not the undermining of democracy. They want to undermine the then generation of the Polytechnic. They want to undermine, to end with timeless. It was not the Polytechnic, the motto "Bread, Education, Freedom". They didn't get it in the Polytechnic or earlier in law or ASA or elsewhere. This message is time-consuming, it came out of long ago, from the first uprisings and remains time-consuming. These are issues that talk about bread and about education, and what all this means and about freedom that is the basis of democracy. Today, we refer to the day before this event in Paris, which some in an imperialist way have caused great problems in the Middle East with results that are painful for these people, so for the whole world. Therefore, the motto "Bread, Childhood, Freedom" is timeless, it is for Greece, it is for Europe, it is for the whole world. Feeders are today these demands he puts and demands are a great uprising that will come and I look forward to coming, as Elytis was calling out, from the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Leventis wants the floor for a minute, to make it clear. We're not confronting today. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u56	Mr SYRIZA's colleague is confused, because populism means saying things, promising benefits, promises to please crowds. The Central Association of thirty years was out of Parliament because it said unpleasant things, said to cut the second, third pensions, cut the disparities, cut the ruffles, cut the benefits of the MPs. The honourable Member is confused about what populism means. I hope that, after my intervention, he will be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u57	Thank you for your intervention. Mr. Saridis has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the city of Thessaloniki, when we want to honor the dead, we weigh very carefully the few words that we finally choose to say. So I asked to speak and express from this Step the respect of Thessaloniki for the dead of the Polytechnic, as well as the solidarity of its inhabitants with the courageous French nation. From the lips of the Minister and Prime Minister, many aggressive determinations have been heard today. But the slogans, you know, are essential. 'Bread - Education - Freedom', Mr Balaura. As far as bread is concerned, the "first time left" will celebrate the first anniversary of the Polytechnic, bringing the bill on auctioning and prerequisites to urgency. In forty-eight hours we will have to vote on the bread, survival and homes of some of our fellow people. As far as education is concerned, I will agree with the honourable Member, Mr Maniot. And addressing the Minister of Education, whose first speech as Minister of Education, by this Step, of the "first time left" were hollow, with journalistic words, I will read him a passage from a school book in 1989. He refers to a speech by an English MP, Gindi, in 1830, please: "As far as it seems paradoxical, the modest provision of free education to the poor who work, would be disastrous both for their moral status and for their happiness. In fact, education would teach the poor to hate their social situation, so that they do not become good servants, farmers and workers, occupations that their place in society has been predetermined. Instead of teaching them subjection, education would despair them and make them fighters, often observed in industrial cities. The lawsuit would allow them to read subversive booklets and booklets dangerous and unreligious. He would also make them disobedient to their superiors. It follows that, in a few years' time, Parliament will be forced to use force against them and to adopt laws concerning them, much stricter than those currently in force.' In 1964, George Papandreou and the Association of the Centre give the Greek people public education. Finally, a talk of freedom. I've said it from this step before, you know. Soon we will have to explain to the Greek people what we are voting on here. Freedom without liability does not exist. My highest right is to take responsibility. That's how I understand the polytechnic ideal. As a free man, free will, I take the responsibility of being free. Honestly honor the dead of the Polytechnic! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr Dousina, fellow SYRIZA Member, has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a great honour and thrill to close this excellent debate that has taken place today. I have heard a great deal, with which I agree, by Mr Javara, by Mr Manios, by Mr Scandalidis, by Maki Balaura lately and by many others. I'd like to speak a little bit more generally. I'd like to talk about the philosophy of resistance. Humanity is born in resistance. In the religious tradition, Adam and Eve disobey God and thus end up in the "gall of tears" that we live. In our mythology Prometheus steals the fire so civilization begins. And all great cultures and all great traditions have similar birth stories at the beginning. If we turn back to our political history, however, all those rights which we consider to be data and do not care very much when we retreat both political and individual rights and social and economic rights and what we call human rights, have been born and have been brought into practice with struggles, at sacrifices. Freedom was born through the great struggles for the liberation of slaves, the great national liberation struggles, to make the people free. Labour rights, through the major struggles of the 19th century which were the struggles between liberalism and democracy. Of course, the rights that we consider to be in here, such as the right to vote, a hundred and fifty years have been fought by workers in England at first, and then women and sufrazats, to gain the right to vote. And if we go back to Greece, we are looking at our own history, the modern related history of the last eighty years, from the resistance of EAM to the resistance of the Polytechnic which we are celebrating today, until the resistance of the last five years expressed so loudly across the square of the indignant, to the "no" of the referendum, all these acts, the incidents. When they asked me in England, "Why is the Greek people resisting so much more than the others who were in similar conditions?" I replied to them, probably a little romantic, that we are the children of Antigen. And because we are the children of Antigen, because we were born and our mythology has been born in this resistance, we can't do any different. To conclude, therefore, such an important debate that we have today, I would like to offer four positions on the philosophy of resistance, which will help us understand when a resistance arises, and possibly succeeds and we can possibly understand what is happening in the future. Firstly, resistance is the law of existence, it is an obscene power to all power. Whenever power relations are formed and stabilised, there are also resistances, and these resistances are therefore, first of all, an event, not an obligation, a being, not a proper one. Secondly, resistance is always local and multiformal, emerging in specific circumstances. As Makis Balaouras said, the Polytechnic was not suddenly done, but there were those conditions and resistance and oppression which, in a long period of time, led to what happened. These resistances are diverse, the diversity, the ones that always enter into a specific context, these are positive and negative. Negatives are the resistances they're trying to keep something they're going to get us. Positive, degrading the opponent and rebuild new institutions, new opportunities. When there is unemployment, when power leads to unemployment, resistance creates new forms of work, self-government businesses, cooperatives and corporations. When authorityal knowledge promotes educated agratiny, resistance creates alternative focal points and forms of knowledge. Thirdly, the resistance does not just apply values and principles or have a predictable concentration point. In resistance, it is not just the idea of justice or freedom but, above all, the sense, the physical experience of injustice, the 'hunger', 'no work', 'no freedom'. It's like, like I say, being and being. But, although it's being, that's something that happens at the time of the explosion, when I physically understand that I can't take any more at the same time, at the same time, exercise the oldest, probably the only natural right we have in our own history, but I think in the history of all peoples, the right to resistance. This right - powers and governments and regimes - have tried to delete it and that always returns. So this is what we are celebrating today, namely the right to resistance as expressed by the Greek people, my generation, in 1973, and which always returns and returns. It is this return of the oppressed, in the psychoanalytical sense of the term, which allows systems, powers, regimes not to die but to renew and keep our communities alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Doussina. Ladies and gentlemen, this agenda, the special political debate, was the first time after four years and may have had the greatest duration and quality, which was recognised by everyone, compared with several years ago. This is a reserve of the Greek Parliament and for today but now every year there is a planned performance of honour, with an essential political debate on the current problems. I would ask that we keep a minute of silence in memory of the fighters and the victims of the Polytechnic and Democracy. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Immortals! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now the Conference of Presidents will be held, where we will take for Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, the new provision of the bills in order. On the substance of the matter, I say that there will be a plenary tomorrow and Thursday and Friday on different legislations, at the same time there will be committees. This weekend, there will be no legislative work. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-17-S1-commons.u62	With the consent of the House at no time of 13.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 18 November 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed.
