ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Thursday, 25 June 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 357/16-6-2015 by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the General Panarcadian Hospital Tripolis. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 349/15-6-2015 by Congressman Laconia of the New Republic Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health about the shortcomings in the Lakonia Artificial Necrosis Units. 3. The Question No 343/12-6-2015 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the delay in the issue of disability pensions. 4. The 337/10-6-2015 topical question by Congressman Larisa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the Multi-purpose Psychodiagnostic Centres of the KETHA. 5. The Question No 362/16-6-2015 by MP Athina of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the reintegration of OAU contractors. 6. The Question No 342-12-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the possibility of appointing qualified multitudes as teachers in secondary education. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 350/15-6-2015 by the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the end of the Meteoria. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 338/11-6-2015 topical question by the Deputy Drama of the River Mr. Kyriakos Charakides to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the operation of the Centre for Environmental Education of Parenestio. 3. The Question No 360/16-6-2015 by MP MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning measures to resolve the problems of workers in the mines of Kassandra. 4. The 240/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Simorelis, Minister for Health and Finance, on the planned payments for drug expenditure. 5. The question asked by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the delay in the regulation on ‘red loans’ for farmers in the former Agricultural Bank. 6. The Question No 309/2-2015 by MP Kastoria of the New Democracy Ms Maria Antonios to the Minister of Health on the problems of the operation of the General Hospital of Kastoria. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 348/15-6-2015 by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitaraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, on the adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision (CYA) on the settlement of outstanding issues of the Municipal Wastewater Reinsurance Operation of the island of Chios (JHA). 8. The Question No 218/14-5-2015 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of National Defence, on the degradation and devaluation of the institution of the National Guard. 9. The 320/8-6-2015 topical question by the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Artemios Mathaiopoulos to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Health, on "with regard to the problems created by the release of illegal immigrants from detention centres". 10. Under number 318/8-6-2015, a topical question by MP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance on the remuneration and commitment of a liquidator from the Bank of Greece for the COOPERATION of the BANK. 11. The Question No 317/8-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Health on the Contribution Agreement of EUR 9,890,500, which consists of 10 pillars, concerns the preparation of studies on the implementation of the ‘Reform Support for the Health Sector’ programme. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece by Athanasios Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the problems of workers in the plastic tubes and fittings industry "KARINA S.A." in New Santa of the Regional Unit Kilkis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering its agenda...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u3	What do you want, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u4	I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, the President of Parliament, who is so in favour of the Rules of Procedure of the House and of the letter of laws, wonder how in the bill on citizenship that SYRIZA colleagues consider to be so important and so important, he has completely violated all the regulations. Firstly, while the Conference of Presidents has decided to be discussed last Wednesday and Thursday, suddenly the President, by her own decision, postpones it because she wants - she says - to present the committee which was set up with some of her friends. Second, let's go to today's. I read to you, Mr President, Rule 50 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, paragraph 4: 'The agenda shall be distributed to Members and published in the list at least two days before the date of the first sitting laid down therein'. At least two days! As we all know, this agenda was posted yesterday morning, Mr President. At 10.00 a.m. yesterday we learned that today is to be discussed in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u7	He was posted on Monday night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u8	I would ask you: was there any reason, Mr President, for Members to know, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, half the time allowed for this debate to take place? But that's not enough. He's got a lot of it all the time. On the agenda which has been distributed to us, Mr President, something is happening that I have never seen before in this House. The President does not simply state that there will be a debate, but that the sitting will also be closed. I imagine that all Members are aware that the duration of a sitting is to be decided by our House, given the listing of speakers and the time spent by Members. But until now the President of Parliament has said that 'you will speak from then on', another President has not thought about it! It's typical of her character. Of course, the most important thing, Mr President, is that we do not know here whether the debate will continue. I sincerely and very much ask you whether you can give me an example where we have entered this Chamber and we do not know whether the debate will continue, an example of whether there has been any other bill that starts the debate and we say that 'we are now starting and seeing'. Indeed, 'and we see' will be done, not as the House wants, but as it says, Mr Voutsi, the co-legislative ministers will decide. Mr President, what this House decides is the Parliament's sovereign right, it is not the ministers'. The Conference of Presidents decides on the agenda and invites the ministers to come and tell us. So here, we have a bill that you advertise as very important...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u9	It is, it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u10	...which you have been postponing for a week for the Committee of Lady Presidents, because of course it is not a committee of the House, as we all know, it is a committee of Mrs Zoe's personal life. You will not give it to us at the right time to know, so that we can meet, collect our Members, because you are in breach of the Rules of Procedure. It defines us and how we talk and it doesn't tell us and when we're going to continue. Mr President, I beg your pardon, do you want to abolish plenary, decide on its own? Don't ruin her, guys! Let Mrs. Constantopoulos decide on her own, let's all go home, do our jobs. Mr President, we request the postponement of the sitting. The Rules of Procedure have been broken. To go for next week, to have voted for the memorandum, to know what government we have, to go further and to vote for the law. Otherwise, you understand that we may also have developments this weekend, not to cross the memorial, to fight with each other. So there's no reason for the bill. Since the Rules of Procedure have been broken, we shall be going for the next week to finish the sitting properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u11	Today I saw you mildly when you entered Parliament. You have welcomed me. You're extremely strict with my president. The Rules of Procedure have not been broken. I don't know if you guys were here. The Conference of Presidents was posted on Monday night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u12	No, Mr. President. My associates were on the website of the Parliament every hour and saw that it was posted yesterday at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u13	Don't be unfair now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, on Monday night with Wednesday morning it is not forty-eight hours. And Monday night if it were, the Rules of Procedure are still being violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u15	Yeah, but it's not a day, like you said. I also have it on the agenda, and you have it. Don't give up on me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u16	It's June 22.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, on Monday night with Wednesday morning it is not two days!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u18	You must admit that you are too strict with my president. Within the day we'll tell you. You've heard. I heard you earlier, you had another kind of conversation. That's a good fight. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on the single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 19 June 2015, to discuss the draft law in two to three meetings, one on the principle and one to two on the articles. The report was announced and posted on 15-6-2015 by the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning by 16:00. The establishment of the debate on the articles will take place in consultation with the Ministers responsible and take account of the other meetings of the committees, the Conference of Presidents and our plenary. I would remind the House that at the outset the debate of the bills refers exclusively to the purpose and content of the bills, pursuant to Rule 95(1) of our Rules of Procedure. The first discussion of the draft law begins with its oral development by the Minister responsible. The rapporteurs, the special speakers and, finally, the Members, who have been on the list of speakers for the first time, are speaking, without prejudice to Rule 64(2), of our Rules of Procedure. The rapporteurs are on the list from the start of the debate and until the end of the speech by the rapporteurs, Rule 96(1) of our Rules of Procedure. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. The submissions in the debate on the draft law in principle are based on Articles 64, 97, 98 of the Rules of Procedure. As Parliamentary Representatives, Ms.Olga Gerovasilis from SYRIZA, Mr. Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis from New Democracy, Mr. Christos Papapas from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Panagiotis Karkatsoulis from Potamis, Mr. Athanasios Pafilis from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis from ANEL and Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos from PASOK have been appointed as the party representatives. Mr Anastasia Christododoulopoulos has the floor. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u20	For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u21	For eighteen minutes, with the usual tolerance of the Bureau. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will try in these eighteen minutes to say what I can and so I will concentrate, because of the limited time, mainly on the provisions on citizenship. First of all, I would like to state that, as you will know, it is the first bill submitted by our Ministry and we are very pleased with it, since the legislation on citizenship was a legal standstill for the state, a promise to a large social majority, who lives in our country, was declared a central objective in the Prime Minister's programme statements. And today, with this bill, this promise is being implemented, since, as you all know, since 2013, there has been no law regulating the issues of the nationality of second generation children, because according to No. 463/2013 Decision of the Council of State was declared unconstitutional the relevant provisions, which had been included for the second generation children of n. 3838/2010 and since then there has been this legal gap, with the result that some children who have been ahead of time have taken citizenship, some other applications have been left pending until now and some other children have not even been able to apply. Thus, there was a vain social expectation and they were all waiting for this regulation, so that they could be settled and proved both as government and as a state and as a state that we are interested in this great social group. I want to say something about an account. In the committees we have met - those who attended them - I think that there was a very fruitful dialogue, there was a rich controversy over all the provisions of the bill and even disagreements were left at a level which - I think - helped to understand the provisions and positions of all the parties on the issues regulated by the Legislation on citizenship. First of all, I would like to say what we have taken into account, starting to draw up this bill. We have first taken into account the decision of the Council of State, not because we consider that we should be subject to the judiciary either as government, as executive authority or as a proposal to the legislative authority, but because we wanted to create a law that withstands time. We wanted the law to be passed by the Greek Parliament on a new judicial adventure. We wanted the provisions of this law to apply for years and to allow these children to acquire citizenship, to become Greek citizens and to be able to shape their future in our country. In this sense, therefore, we have only calculated all the arrangements relating to unconstitutionalism, as defined in the decision No. Date of birth: 460/2013. The second point we have taken into account was the views expressed by the parties in public. We did not want to create a law that is and will capture the ideological stigma of SYRIZA, but we wanted to create a law reflecting the various views that exist around this issue, from all the parties in the Greek Parliament. So we have also taken into account the views expressed by the parties. We have taken note of a bill prepared by the previous government to vote, and we have taken some of the same provisions from it. We have naturally taken note of the independent authorities that have spoken since 2010, as well as recently, of the need to regulate these issues for the second generation of children. And finally, we have taken into account the Civil Society, human rights organisations, immigration organisations, the people who are anxious to regulate their lives. This, obviously, took time. And not only that, but we also met before we tabled the bill with all the parties' representatives, precisely to take their own view into account. In other words, we have decided to proceed with a procedure so that this bill receives a large majority, because we believe that the bill is not about the SYRIZA, it is not just about the children of the second generation, but about democracy itself, social cohesion itself, and we wanted there to be a great political consensus within this House, as we also want there to be a great social consensus in society. I thought that I was obliged to tell you so that you could take it into account and take it into account in the positions you will be voting on, but above all in the vote you will be voting on. Then I would like to confess that the provisions of the bill, as they have been tabled, do not reflect the ideological view of SYRIZA, as you will understand. We have been very critical of the arrangements we have made, because they are not considered to be radical or to satisfy all the people, the children who live in our country. However, we insist on this line - the balanced, as we call it - because we consider it realistic, we consider it sustainable and we consider it humane. In that sense, we also made that choice. We believe that according to the needs of a state should legislate and the needs of children are the ones that guide us to be able to regulate their nationality. All the legal classes in Europe, long before us and regardless of ideology, have passed provisions on the citizenship of children much more open than our own, without any ideological affinity with the governments that have proposed them. On the other hand, I would say that the governments which adopted these provisions have an ideological affinity with other sides of the House, which may be against the provisions of our bill today. Why is that so? Because, finally, after the great migratory flow that began in 1990, all the world’s legal classes had to regulate the issue of child nationality. When a social issue is formed, when groups seeking regulation become majority, then the legislator decides to regulate these issues. So countries, which were very fanatical of the theory of origin and of the nationality of blood, were forced to enter into arrangements that altered this original character and which saw the law of the ground as a premise. We, as you will see in the provisions, do not take a stand on these issues. We believe that this dialogue that took place in 2010 was barren, because it actually divided into camps on ideological issues, who is with the right of blood and who is with the law of the ground, what we mean by the word "national" and what we mean by the word "people". Here too, there have been seminars on seminars, without taking into account the social need that arises in regulating the life, survival and future of the children of the first generation migrants who come to our country and look for their own life, how they will regulate it in the future. I would therefore like to begin by saying that for us, citizenship is not a gift or a privilege or a prize that we give to some, because something is, they are immigrant children, but it is a need and obligation of the state to children who have grown up here, who have studied here, who have been born here and who are obliged to pay off citizenship, since from all the grid of laws, the provisions of the Code of Nationality, we are obliged to do so. So I say to you in particular: according to the Code of Greek citizenship, in seven years' time an immigrant, i.e. the first generation immigrant, may ask for his naturalisation and become a Greek citizen. It, of course, has strict conditions, such as staying legally in Greece, to have these well-known "heavy" permits, as we say, the time-limit, etc., not to have committed any offences, to have joined society, to know Greek history, etc. In any case, however, it has the right to apply for naturalisation. So, to him to whom the Greek state gives the right in seven years to become Greek, the Greek state cannot grant the same right to its children or to other children who were either born here or who came here and studied in Greek schools. Second provision in the Code of Nationality is the one that stipulates that the first generation grandchildren automatically acquire Greek citizenship. In other words, the legislator considers that after two generations there is no need for any precondition to become children Greek citizens. This is the second provision. Third order, connected to the previous one. He who is naturalized by Greek, in the seven years that he has a right, his children, if they are minor, automatically acquire Greek citizenship either have studied in Greek schools or have not studied, whether they have made six classes of school, or have made nine of the entire high school, whether they have gone to university or anything. It is not possible, therefore, when these provisions are in the Code of Nationality, which did not consider them to be unconstitutional, which apply all these years and which various immigrants have made use of these provisions, to say these today, after so many years when the realities have been differentiated, that those immigrants who have finally left our country and who have not stood up to leave in the crisis that we are all living in, we have seen that they have proved to be a presumption that they want to stay in Greece. And they want to stay in Greece, mostly, because they want their children to stay. Because their children have no home to come back. Their children were born here or they came here little. Their children studied in Greek schools, they only know Greek, they don't know another homeland, they don't know another language. Children build their lives on the standards their peers have and not on the standards their parents have. Therefore, these children cannot be taken by an immigrant to take them back to his country, because these children will be unhappy there, they will be foreign. So even when they don't have a job, even when they were in danger with the previous government, without a renewed license, they insisted that they stay here for the sake of their children. What do we say to these immigrants, who despite all the obstacles, despite all the adversities, insist that they stay in Greece and not only stay in Greece, but to express as long as their children are minor, their will to become Greek, to have Greek citizenship? So when this is the mesh of laws, it is that of the Code of Nationality, that is to say that it provides for citizenship to be acquired either by birth or by naturalisation, it must be a legislative body, taking account of Article 4(3) of the Constitution, which says that the law defines who is Greek, that we see this great possibility of the Constitution and that we - and this should be exclusively dialogue - who we think we can include within the meaning of the people and popular sovereignty. Are these children part of our people? They live as our kids live? Do they have the same struggles? Do they have the same, maybe, a few joys? Do they have the same future? Are they planning their lives, as are our children planning, to finish school, go to college, find a job, do postgraduate in these very difficult circumstances? It's their whole life, they're nothing different. Are those immigrant children, immigrants? They're not immigrants. Their parents are immigrants. The kids were either born here or they came here very small and didn't meet another country. They don't even remember where those little things came from. So, the only home is this, Greece. Where they lived, where they met themselves, where they met the world. We can deprive these children of citizenship. And what's citizenship, huh? Because, as we have said in committee, because there were many comments made during the public consultation, there are people who are not legally aware or are not obliged to know them, who are confusing the concept of citizenship with citizenship. In our legal system, therefore, citizenship and citizenship are the same thing. Nationality is a word coming from the past, when there was kingdom and subjects, who were always beneath the king and ruler, and obeyed him. Our code is Greek Nationality Code. It's not a code of citizenship. What etymology is, we don't care. We are now legally regulating how and on what terms a Greek can be made. So, citizenship, what is it? It is the legal bond linking a man to the state of whose people he wishes to belong. This is dry, based on legal science, but also on the whole historical route and the case-law of decisions, which have been adopted, the term citizenship. That's all. And while so far we have people who have only obligations toward the state - fiscal, obedience, regulation in the laws, to go to renew their licenses, to do this or that - with citizenship they have rights, as do other Greeks. That means citizenship. Therefore, I think we need to clear up and memorize some things, because we have mythicalized them and indeed with an ideological mark, and that is the danger to social cohesion. I understand that we all have ideological differences between ourselves. And that is why we are not coming here to make an ideological confrontation. What we need to answer is: Is there a social need to regulate the issue of child citizenship? Yes or no? One of the prisoners. In this I am very pleased, because there is not one party, except Golden Dawn, which says that we should not regulate the nationality of children. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Congratulations. You're admiring yourself. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Well, what separates us is which conditions they'll get it, what age and terms. In my opinion, therefore, all the arguments need to be developed. Because if we agree on the major, it is a great deal of progress, in our view. It is a great step forward that all parties now accept that children must acquire citizenship. I think this is a step forward in both politics and society, and we must keep this as an important fact, all of us and all of us. Because this shows both our progress and the new culture that is being shaped and how we integrate new data into our policy, our conscience, our programme and our future. So that's where the second big question is being opened. When do children have to take citizenship? This is where I have to open the second part of our debate, and I've been in 20 minutes. But I will say it very soon, so that I can leave time, since we have a sitting time, so that all of our Members and parliamentarians can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u23	We don't have time for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u24	Oh, we don't. Good. The Council of State, in its decision - which if you read carefully, you will see - has never decided that these children born in Greece are not a separate category for which there is a need for regulation. On the contrary, he said that for children born in Greece who acquire Greek citizenship we should set more conditions than the conditions laid down by the n. 38382010. So, on the basis of this decision, since it was considered unconstitutional, and a child born in Greece by a parent who has five years of legal residence in the country is not considered to have a sufficient criterion to obtain citizenship, we have now led to a regulation: to say that a parent must have five years - at least one - legal residence in Greece and the child have arrived six years old to be registered in the first grade and at the time of the declaration, to obtain Greek citizenship, at least one parent has an indefinite leave, for a long time, refugee etc. I'm calling the first permits. What does that mean? So we say that for a child, if everything goes well, his parents should live in Greece for at least eleven years to get his child citizenship. If these conditions are not met, then the right is automatically transferred after ten years. That is, if anyone has not given birth to his child five years ago, then his right will not be exercised in five, but in ten years. I think that this provision is particularly strict. We have been very critical because, in the opinion of the independent authorities, we will rule out many people from having their children citizenship and, at the same time, as I have explained to you before, and it can be naturalized in seven years and the child can automatically get Greek citizenship, we will transfer it by this provision to eleven years. Why, then, should we, firstly, regulate children born in Greece as a special category? Because we believe that children born in Greece are, in fact, a charge that is necessarily represented by the parents, because it is minor, as is all the other minors, except those who end the university and the TEIs, but the parent is rooted in the Greek society and expresses genuine will so that his child can stay and root the Greek society. What are the first answers? We have the CENE report. This is important, because you need to remember and what happened in 2010. The CEN report says that the provisions we propose are compatible with the Constitution and Decision No. Date of birth: 460/2013. Yesterday the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament came out, which also says the same thing. Therefore, because there were various colleagues in the committee who said that this law will also be declared unconstitutional, I would like, in addition to calling on them to read the previous decision of the Council of State, to refer them to the CSE report and the Scientific Committee report carefully. We welcome both these reports, because our aim is to pass a law that can withstand time - we do not want to put children into adventure again, we do not want new vaporized social expectations to be created - and that gives us pleasure, although we do indeed believe that we have not legislated on the basis of what we would like to see. So why does a child need early, i.e. from the age of six - at best - to acquire citizenship? Because a child becomes conscious of himself and the world at a very early age. There's no scientist...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u25	It can be written in primary school and in a month to leave Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u26	I'll see you, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Athanasios, please do not interrupt the patronage minister. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u28	I was interrupted by Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u29	I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u30	Okay, that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u31	You do not interrupt, you are a noble man, Mr. Athanasius.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u32	I'm used to your president.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u33	Come on, Minister, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u34	To finish, Mr President - I am going to thirty minutes and I am nervous - I tell you that there is no scientist who claims that children have a conscience of themselves and others at an older age. The national conscience, the social consciousness, that is, the identities we acquire as humans - that I am Greek, I am Bulgarian or I am French - is acquired from the first steps of a person's life. Then, then, it takes the child who enters the first group life to realize that he is Greek. Then it must have this nationality, so that it is not different from the other children - because it is not different from the other children - and that it can join this community, without accepting differences, divisions, alienation or other types of more extreme behaviour. So, scientifically, we consider that this age is appropriate for a child to take Greek citizenship. He also said Mr Athanasios - and others say so - who guarantees us that a child who will be written in the first grade will not take citizenship and will rise to leave with this privilege of Greek citizenship and then his children and his grandchildren will be Greek and will have laughed at us. Firstly, I would like to say a general principle that we do not legislate on the basis of an exception that may exist. And I can't tell you that there can't be any such case. The legislator regulates general categories of people, general needs and is directed to regulate these issues. I do not understand that there may be an immigrant who has come to our country, has suffered so much suffering - obviously he has come before having five years of legal residence, at least seven or ten years ago - he has lived in Greece illegally - with what this means - seven to ten years in our country, he has finally taken legality, he has lived in five years of lawfulness - he has also had a child who has grown up until six years - fifteen plus six, twenty-one years - and after twenty-one years, after having suffered the greatest suffering, after his child has become a Greek girl, he has suddenly gone crazy and said "now I have taken this great citizenship, with which I will become a European" - or I don't know what to think - "I will get out of school, I will take my child out of school, I don't know where I'm going to go, I don't know where I'm going to go and I'm going to ruin the law." I think we are talking about amazing cases, which the legislator cannot control. But, in any case, I am open, and if you can find me auditing mechanisms that will provide for, control and watch that a child can finish the whole primary school, and once he has taken citizenship, he will not abuse this right, I am very willing to include them in the provisions, provided that it is legally applicable to who controls it, on what criteria, every year and to resolve all these issues necessary for a legal arrangement and an administration that we will be burdening with even something else. Finally, because I have reached thirty-two minutes and I feel bad, I would like to say that, after arguing why there is a need, the minor children born in Greece are a special charge - I said the argument, there are many other things to say to you, but now it does not matter - I will not talk about the other two categories, that is, about the children who have finished nine-year-old education and high school in our country, or about the children who have finished high school and IHI or TEI in our country, because all the wings of this House, other than Golden Dawn, agree to these arrangements. On the other hand, I will make it easier, by means of some legislative provision, to vote on these provisions, separating them from the provision providing for citizenship with birth, so that those who comply with the other two provisions may be able to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u35	Madam Minister, I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Please, can you repeat?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u36	You didn't hear. I say that, because all Parliament's wings are in agreement with citizenship after nine years of education and high school, and after the university or the TEI, I will separate these provisions so as to make it easier for Parliament's wings to vote, at least two provisions and to vote 'no' if they do not, in the first order. To conclude, I would like, however, to force you, as far as I can, that we must allow these little children born in our country to become very early Greek citizens. Do not confuse - perhaps some arguments - the first generation immigrants, who are in our country from 1990 to 2000, with the new wave of refugees and immigrants entering our country. You should know that the characteristics of the new refugee current are completely different. From those who enter, no one wants to stay in Greece, not only because it is Greece of the crisis, not only because they do not see their lives here improving, but because in any case there is no support for the reception, hospitality, asylum etc. And everyone is rushing to leave Western European countries. Therefore, and this helps us to understand the perseverance of the first generation migrants in relation to the new refugee current coming from war areas, seeks a way out in Western Europe and does not want to root in our country. And just, with this, we should give this citizenship to these people, who, with such perseverance and after so much suffering, chose to stay in the country and declare their will to become their children Greeks. Now, some arguments that there is no autonomy of the will of children etc. I think they can't stand any legal criticism, and I'm going over it. I reserve to intervene at any point I consider I will help with my intervention in a more fruitful debate. I compel myself to omit the instructions, the changes to the Migration Code, so that I can give you space and time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. The floor has just been asked by the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy. Minister, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Metropoulou, excuse me, until Mr. Lafazanis comes to Stepma, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u39	Sure. You have the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u40	There is one important issue, but it is a matter of the Services to deal with it and not to have any problem. In the draft law which has been shared, and at the end, which is attached to the report under Article 75 of the Constitution, there is the signature of Mr Brutsi instead of Mr Voutsi. I would therefore ask the Services to deal with this, so that we do not have any formal issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u41	Ladies have immediately been taken over and solved, from what they have told me. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I take the floor why Article 13 exists in this bill, which concerns the establishment of a new public company, a public energy investment company. This company is 100% public and is involved in this bill, because it must be passed by the House, in order to make use of this company to form a consortium that will build and then operate a pipeline that will pass through the Greek soil with Russian gas. As you know, the Greek Government accepted the invitation to build a gas pipeline that will start from Russia, will continue underwater in the Black Sea, move to European Turkey and from the Turkish border through the Greek territory to Europe. We accepted this invitation to support such a pipeline, because we consider it beneficial for our country and for the Greek people. We consider this work to be useful and beneficial for the whole region and for Europe. You know that recently in Petroupolis - not to say the divorcing and I raise comments - the Greek Government signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Russian Government to support this pipeline. This memorandum was signed by the Greek and Russian Energy Ministers. At the same time as this memorandum, I signed as Energy Minister, together with Russia's Governor of the Development Bank and International Economic Relations, Vladimir Dimidriev, a joint statement setting up a new company that will build and operate this pipeline. This new company will have the participation of TENE, this company that we set up under Article 13, by 50%. It will also participate by 50% in this company a subsidiary of Russia's Development Bank and International Economic Relations, one of the largest - perhaps the largest - banks in Russia. So, with a prototype, but very substantial and national interests, Greece will, through the Greek public, proceed to an entirely equal partnership, 50% -50%, something unprecedented if we see the previous ones that exist in our country, to which I do not want to expand, because they are not at present. It will be an absolutely equal partnership, therefore, on equal terms and on equal terms. This is very important, because Greece is becoming a partner with substantial rights to a large country, a producer of energy goods and especially a main feeder of Europe in natural gas. PPC will play an important role in our country's development effort with this project. This project will cost about EUR 2 billion. Some twenty thousand workers will be employed during its construction, which is important to our country during the period in which we are going, at a time when, because of the crisis, there is considerable unemployment. I should also like to point out that from the participation of the TENE in this project, Greece will receive special benefits, benefits in terms of favourable gas prices and therefore energy, benefits financially from the revenues that this pipeline will have every year, which will be significant and will probably amount to hundreds of millions of euros, since this pipeline will spend 40 billion cubic metres of gas annually. We are talking about one of the largest pipelines in Europe and, of course, because of this position, also in the world. You see that in this way, Greece is at the same time becoming a pluralist, I would say, an energy hub for the whole of our region and expanded politically and geostrategically. Greece passes through the TAP, with gas-fired gas, that is to say it is built to pass through, which we support. We will now have a new pipeline - we hope from 2019 to start operation - with Russian gas. It is obvious that Greece is becoming a country of diversification of natural gas sources and routes for Europe and a country that ensures energy adequacy, security and stability throughout the European area. I think that this is something very important that we need to contain, because it is of great importance to our prospects. Of course, you will tell me that these projects meet with reactions from some third parties. But here and from this step, we want to make sure that this pipeline does not turn against a third country, does not turn against a third country. This pipeline benefits cooperation, peace and stability in the region. It ensures, as I have said, energy adequacy and stability. These pipelines do not require consumers to take the gas that passes through them. Consumers choose gas and must have multiple sources and options. Therefore, this pipeline, to the extent it covers adequate needs and is preferred by consumers, ensures major goods for the operation of Europe's economies. It is therefore a pipeline, as I have said, of peace, stability and security, which is not directed against any third party and is not justified, in any way, by the reactions of third parties for decisions that can be taken by any sovereign country, and it must take, on the basis of its national interests, in the interests of the Greek people and, of course, without infringing or defending the interests of other countries, particularly neighbouring and European countries. That's what we do, and that's why we're opening streets. And we can achieve this, and we can do this, because our Greece and government, despite the reactions and any pressures, are determined to pursue and pursue an independent and multi-dimensional energy policy, and I therefore have an independent and multi-dimensional external economic policy, international economic relations policy. This is the way, so that Greece can open up positive prospects for itself, for both our country and our region. I would like to point out, by closing that Greece with this move is linked to the entire European and Balkan area with links of cooperation and friendship. At the same time, Greece, with this type of investment, adds something positive to the energy investment that is currently taking place in our country. Greece is a country that, with a lever for energy investments, which are notable in our country despite the difficulties of the period, and through a new development and independent energy policy it can obtain a lever from the crisis. And it is very important that this is because energy is constantly upgraded and its role is increased in modern economies. Our central objective is to reduce the cost of energy for households and businesses, in particular for energy-intensive businesses, and we think that, with this step taken by Article 13, we are opening up a positive path of this kind, which is difficult, but which is necessary in order to be able to take a major step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u45	Here you go, Mr. Georgiadis, what do you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u46	To answer the minister's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u47	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u48	First of all, Minister, we are extremely pleased that you signed the memorandum...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u49	Minister, he wants to speak a minute on what you said. Please don't leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u50	We are extremely pleased that you signed the memorandum of cooperation with the Russian Federation. It is good to slowly enter the memorials and this weekend sign the good, the great one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u51	Mr. President, is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u52	Is that for the conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u53	Don't bother. I want to ask you a question about what you said. Don't be so disturbed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u54	I'm not disturbing, but it's not the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u55	I would like to ask you, in order to clarify a few things, this: the daily press, during the negotiations on the pipeline to which you referred, has provided information that the Russians are going to give us an advance of EUR 5 billion. In fact, the journalists have provided this information, Mr President, about Mr Lafazani himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u57	I would like to ask whether we are going to get an advance of EUR 5 billion, and if so, when or if all this was an incorrect information, with which the Minister had absolutely nothing to do with it. It's good to be cleared up. [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't yell, ladies and gentlemen. This was written in the press and moved your MPs to the channels. We were together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u59	If you don't get upset that we didn't get $5 billion, get upset with the people who said we'd take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Georgiadis, we're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u61	As to the New Democracy amendment and attitude,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Metropoulou, it's embarrassing what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u63	I don't want any comments from anyone. Please. I gave him the floor, it'll be over, and Mr. Petrakos will take the floor, and if you want, you will answer. Keep going and get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u64	Why is it a disgrace, Minister? I'm sorry, why is what the President is doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u65	Because you're making a suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u66	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u67	This is a House, sir. Did you, as a parliamentarian underneath every bill call to take the floor and now say "shock" to Mr. Metropoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u68	You will be involved in the process of submissions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u70	I can see you. As close as the Memorandum is, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u71	We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u72	Let me not open the conversation about the PPA now and the Lafazanne signature underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u73	It's the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u74	No theater!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u75	I will only make one observation. Let the Minister make it clear to us whether or not we get the EUR 5 billion advance - as you moved to the journalists who wrote it and some of them had to apologize for having written it - if, in any case, there is some kind of advance in the next few days from the Russians for all that you do or if the Russians do not give us an advance or give us, when the pipeline procedure is completed. This is very critical, Mr President, beyond the good speeches we have heard here, in order to understand what is actually happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u76	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u77	Finally, I congratulate Mr Lafazani. St. Petersburg may have called it half, that is, "Petrupolis", but it is a step forward from "Leningrad", which was called it until yesterday. As the Memorandum approaches, it will leave Leningrad. It is today at "Petroupolis" and will end on Sunday at "Saint Petersburg" and the regular memorandum! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u79	Gentlemen, be quiet! Mr. Petrakos, have you asked for the floor or quit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u80	First the Minister will speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, this is not a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u82	Please don't tell me if that's a process. Please answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u83	We have some sort of parliamentary experience, and we must maintain a parliamentary order of things in substance. Parliamentary representatives are entitled to speak and ask questions and intervene, but when the process of discussion of the bills begins, the Minister is recommended, the rapporteurs of the parties are following up, this is the end of the procedure and Members' interventions are beginning and, if there is anything special, the parliamentary representatives are intervening. Now, as you can see, we are entering another procedure, because you are giving the floor to the parliamentary representative on the substance. We will begin to respond and the parliamentary representatives are lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u84	You have introduced an article and perhaps the parliament for a minute would like...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u85	I'm not leaving. Alas! Why should I leave? "Possibly" what does it say? Mr President, I am sorry, but I too am entitled to make my remarks on the procedure, because I think they are useful for the constructive debate in this Chamber. I am not at all disturbed by the speeches, but that is another thing. But I see, while I am not disturbed by the interventions, some are disturbed by the efforts made by the Greek Government and have a very positive effect...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u86	We congratulated you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u87	...which I would expect to salute in a simple and good way from all the wings...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u88	We have congratulated you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u89	...and from all sides, because this effort by the Greek Government - which was persistent and has reacted and has a cost, and yet, the government is constantly moving to it and consistently - is to the benefit of the country and to the benefit of the Greek people. If the pipeline is built, Lafazanis or the government will not win, but our country and the Greek citizens will win and the benefit will be very important. You're telling us about the five billion. Well, is it possible to make these objections right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u90	Questions he's asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u91	Is it possible to make these objections? Because he says...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u92	Questions he poses.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u93	Do not interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u94	I'm sorry, but I see these reports look like a bunch of press reports that say we're doing the pipeline, but we don't get any money. Ladies and gentlemen, mercy! We need to see the truth and the reality: a Greece that cannot finance such a project at the moment. By financing third parties entirely it will be found to hold 50% of a huge pipeline disproportionate to our country's measures, through which a huge amount of gas will be transferred, forty-seven billion cubic metres a year. 50% of this pipeline will therefore own the country, without even a euro being able to pay, and will have major financial benefits from this pipeline, and will benefit from growth and employment during the construction process, and will also benefit from gas prices. You're saying we're going to take five billion dollars?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u95	All four billion is good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u96	I mean, excuse me, but did you find a cow that we can milk and offer us billions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u97	It's all the same again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u98	Gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u99	You were talking about an advance on the profits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u100	What you say has been written, but they have not been received from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u101	Now you've said it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u102	Of course, beyond these benefits, I would like to say here that we may be talking, as soon as we are done, about the most beneficial work for the economy and the Greek people. It will be one of the largest works of Postpopulation and as long as it works normally, it will be one of the most beneficial and profitable for the Greek state. We are also talking - and we are talking - about a clean project, that is to say, a project which does not involve private interests. There are no massages. There are no 'gifts'. There are no transactions under the table. This is a project involving the Greek State 100% net and 100% a Russian state bank. From there on - to underline this and compare it - the PPCENE, which we set up with this bill and which by 50% will be involved in the company for the pipeline, will, of course, be able to apply to consortia of Russian banks, even to the Bank for Development and International Economic Relations itself, in order to obtain funding for the profits that this PPC will have from the operation of the project. This can be achieved in the next period. In other words, immediately after the company, which will build the pipeline, TSE can submit such a request to Russian banks and especially to the Russian Development Bank. It is possible for this request to be answered and indeed for the benefits and profits, TSE may be able to fund in the next few months in order to meet its objectives, which are developmental investments, first of all in the field of energy. That's the situation. I think it is a positive prospect for Greece and the Greek people and opens up many paths for multilateral economic relations, which will extend to all the lengths and backs of the planet. Greece will not see economic relations from the point of view of international economic relations only to the north and west. It will look in all directions and develop relations in all directions. This is the way for a sovereign and independent country that wants to stand on its feet and get out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. Here, you have been provoked and clarified creative issues of this very interesting project that you are doing. Please call Mrs Vassilis Katrivanou, SYRIZA rapporteur. Here, Mrs Catrivanu, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Mr President-in-Office, first of all I must say that the position of the Minister was an excellent position - I really mean it - which covered everything in every way and at all levels. I also want to say that I am very pleased that we are currently bringing the citizenship bill. It is a very critical moment for the negotiations and someone could say that it is not timely or that it is timely. However, I think it is particularly timely for the legislation on citizenship to come at the moment, because rights, dignity and equality are not luxury. They are unnecessarily negotiable goods and especially at such times they do not enter second degrees, but they still gain more value and make us even more proud and proud to be brought to it. We opened the ERT. We bring the cohabitation pact next time. They are all digits of the same image, because we do not want there to be two categories of people, two categories of children, ours and the others. There are no people on the margin, when there are particular conditions for them to be legal, to be wealth for the country and the Greek society. Have you probably met black children talking to you unfamiliarly Greek, telling you about the Parthenon, Kolokotronis and the neighborhoods that grew up? I've met. When we heard institutions, we were all impressed by the reason and their presence. They made us feel proud and proud, because these children are the classmates and classmates of our own children, they are their friends and friends, they are our children. At the hearing of bodies, Mr. Alizante had come from the Republic of Afghan Immigrants and Refugees and we heard him say: "When I tell my own child that I am an Afghan, he tells me that you are an Afghan, I am a Greek" and "when he plays a ball in Afghanistan, he does not care as much as when Greece plays, because it is our team." In the past I was a psychologist, working with second generation children, and I have experienced bitterness, distress, feeling of marginalization, feeling of injustice, anger that this exclusion creates, which is not only unfair, but does not need. We can change that. These kids are rich. That is why this bill is necessary, urgent and realistic. For these reasons, he has a wider consensus. It is necessary, because it regulates this reality that we are experiencing in a legal way, which should already have been regulated. Also, in a homologous sense of integration and social cohesion, improvements in the Migration Code are progressing. It is urgent - and I do not mean it formally, I mean it in fact - because since 2012, when the decision of the CoR's plenary ruling which held the provisions unconstitutional in its provisions has leaked to the press has been unconstitutional. 3838/2010, the previous government irregularly frozen all the relevant procedures before even the decision was published, and for two years avoided legislating. Thus, thousands of children have remained vacant, without any citizenship process. We're coming to heal this thing. It is realistic, because we take into account the decision of the Council of State, with which we disagree, but we consider that we should respect it and shield the new draft law from it. This bill has a great deal of consensus - except the Golden Dawn of course - on its trunk, that is to say that the children of the second generation must take the Greek citizenship. There are also differences in when, but no one, beyond the Golden Dawn, says 'no' in this event. At some point they'll take the Greek citizenship. We welcome this consensus, because it is a maturation product. It is a product of maturation that there are no screams about 'leaving immigrants', 'project-magnet', as has been said before by the New Democracy. Mr. Samaras going to photograph Evros and say that SYRIZA will share nationalities, etc. It is a time of general consensus, but the SYRIZA government also needed to come to the point, to make this drafting reality. And we do not call it permissiveness, we call it fair and a part of political evaluation. Because things are overripe at the moment, there is consensus, but they are not carried out on their own, the political will is needed. As the political will for the overtime demand is needed, there is an enlarged cohabitation pact for both homogeneous couples. We will implement it. There have now been serious criticisms - I will not go to the propaganda of illegal immigration - on the right and on the left. And I'll say a few words about each side. Well, an important point of criticism is that citizenship should not be awarded by birth, but either by the sixth grade, as Potami, the ANEL and the New Democracy supports - which even says for nine years of education - or by adulthood, which, with our surprise, supports the JRC. Let's see why we insist on the first grade. We believe that citizenship is not a prize and a gift, as the Minister said. It's not the end of a long journey and a long walk, but the right to the children who grow up like our children. In particular, when the Greek state at seven years gives the right to an immigrant with legal residence to be able to naturalise as a Greek, it cannot be for children to spend twelve and eighteen years in order to do so. We want them to take citizenship at the beginning, when they are in school, in the years, that is, they are very critical of the formation of their social and national conscience and must feel children equal, children who do not differ, children who do not feel that they are foreigners, that they are not on the sidelines. Also, I think the perception of the F grade is gypsy and fearful, deep down. We want children from the first time they are conscious - and around the six who enter school is a moment of consciousness - to feel that they are part of the Greek society and the Greek nation. So I return to the institutions, and I refer again to the same Afghan, Mr. Alizante, from the community of Afghan immigrants and refugees who say that when a child is at an early age and tell him that you are an immigrant and not a Greek, it's like killing it in a way. We don't want to do that. On the left there is a criticism, which I consider to be ideological and worthwhile. Personally, I would like a more bold bill. For example, I do not agree with the requirement of successful students, because I think there are other conditions on which you can define integration, as is, for example, the social skills that man has, regardless of how good a student he is. I am also concerned about the dependency on giving children citizenship to the legality of parents. Because, since a child lives and grows here, he owes nothing to pay for the sins of his parents - that is whether they are legal or not - and essentially the sins of the Greek state, which has not made it possible to have legal proceedings or that parents have been expelled from legality because of the situation and the crisis. I would like a bill - as I believe, and most of SYRIZA and probably the Minister, as far as I know, that citizenship should start at the birth of the child. However, this is a specific political choice at the moment, which is to have the necessary coexistence, namely not to ignore the decisions of the Supreme Courts, even though we disagree with them, so that they cannot in future be cancelled by the Council of State. This would have a traumatic effect on children themselves, but it would also be a cancellation of all our work. We wouldn't make a law of endurance, which we'd like to do. The CEN report and the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament shows that this law is currently in the framework of constitutional immunity and stands for the future. Before I finish, I would like to say that this bill does not only regulate the issue of citizenship, but also introduce two important Community directives, as well as changes to the Migrant Code, such as the reduction from ten to seven years of proven residence to apply for a residence permit, for exceptional reasons and the granting of humanitarian permits to victims of trafficking, labour exploitation, racist crimes, domestic violence, serious suffering, etc. This is the provision which, if you remember, Mr Baltaku's intervention had been withdrawn from the Migration Code and had been adopted as a joint ministerial decision. So we reincorporate it into the code body. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill should have been passed yesterday. And yet, it's a bill that doesn't look at yesterday, but tomorrow, because it envisions a nation made up of people living together who want to live together, regardless of their origin. It does not see the nation as a community based solely on common origin and the past. It's not just the past, it's the present and the future. We believe that only from such an open concept have we all won a total gain in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. Georgios Georgios Georgios, rapporteur of the New Democracy, is called at Step. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Today, however boring it may sound, I have to say that this is a historic meeting for plenary. It is a meeting in which the legislation that comes for approval is not a simple piece of legislation which has to do with regulating some aspect of economic or social or other activity within our country. Today, what we are called to judge and assess has to do with the highest debt each Greek Member of Parliament: through the debt, through the jurisdiction given to him by the law, to judge what elements he must have, which will be awarded to him by Greek citizenship, the one to be called "Greek" and treated as Greek. This piece of legislation is very important, precisely because our crisis right now is irreversible. Perhaps it will not be our choice today for an unfortunate legislative result, which we can improve tomorrow or tomorrow to withdraw. Today our crisis is irreversible! What does that mean? It means that on the basis of what we are going to vote today, the potential beneficiaries, under the provisions of this legislation, will be able tomorrow to ask for Greek citizenship. Even if the Council of State decides, as we believe, at least the provision of citizenship to those who were born in the country of unconstitutionality, that will take time. And that means that many may take citizenship, while we do not think that the differences posed by this draft law are the ones that are in line with both our Constitution and our moral and responsible political attitude, which we all have to show here today. The New Democracy has never been hidden from expressing a straight position, a clear position on this matter. With realism, with a balanced attitude between the need for those who have been integrated into Greek society, those who want and can function as Greeks, they are indeed given citizenship. But, at the same time, to preserve the fact that those to whom Greek citizenship will be awarded will have acquired this essential bond with the Greek people, with the Greek reality, so that we do not just become a people in which the coherent links between those who make it disappear. So this responsible attitude was also demonstrated in the bill, which, at the initiative of Mr Haralambos Athanasiou, had been made public during the previous government period and in which the main torso was one: Apart from any formal conditions to be met, it must prove to be a substantial link to the naturalisation of a foreign child with the Greek society. A secure criterion, a test which has a high security guarantee in this respect, is education. Nine-year compulsory education, what is in place for every Greek girl, is an element that can actually give the applicant a foreigner - at an age of conscience and his application - those elements we want to convince us that he has indeed attempted and succeeded in integrating into the Greek society. Simple registration in the first grade is essentially a standard criterion, a criterion by which the essential bond, which was the main reason why the Council of State considered the previous law to be unconstitutional, cannot be easily overcome. The New Democracy is not against giving Greek citizenship to those who have either completed secondary education or received a university degree, a higher education degree in Greece has indeed learned the Greek language, to those who have actually been integrated into Greek society and have been born in Greece. Yes, they should be given Greek citizenship. We cannot, however, - and this is the mistake we are making - link this maximum possibility with criteria, which are essentially not evaluated in the person of the minor but in the person of his parents. I have heard the Minister say that for eleven years, according to the draft law, it is essential that they be legally in the country one of the two parents. That's right. We, however, do not examine the evidence on the parent’s face but on the child’s face. If we really want to see the evidence on the parent's face, if he is capable of naturalisation, then, on the basis of the possibility that the law gives, that is, after the seven years have elapsed, let the father go through the process of naturalisation. In other words, it passes by a committee, which assesses its desire to reside in the country and the knowledge of the Greek reality and the knowledge of the historical data about the country and then gives it Greek citizenship. And if she delivers her by naturalization to the father, she gets the child automatically. We either evaluate the criteria based on the child or evaluate them based on the parents. In this respect, the judge shall assess them on the basis of the child. And what are those important elements, which it puts as prerequisites? Two, which are - both - and random and typical: one is birth in the country and the other is simple registration in the first grade. Is that enough, so that we can say that this child has the desire, intention and ultimately the possibility of joining the Greek society, in order to give him Greek citizenship? Will the Greek nationality be awarded the instrument for its integration, or will it be the escalation, peaking in the effort to integrate it? Reference has been made to other legal regimes in other European countries, where, at far smaller ages and perhaps with fewer elements, citizenship is being given. We compare different things. Many of these countries had colonies. They have a different status for foreigners. Many of these countries have international languages and it is much easier to integrate someone who remains on their territory as a foreigner, because he comes in knowing the language of the country in which he goes. In Greece, if anyone stops the first grade and gets ghettoised, will they ever learn the Greek language and the Greek reality? To say things with their name. Muslims in the country avoid going to Greek schools, consciously. They're consciously avoiding it. By not giving us the opportunity and the obligation to end nine years of compulsory education, we are essentially helping to get them into ghettos, which is a conscious choice of their parents. They oppose the Western European way of life, contrary to Western European culture and its achievements, and are a conscious choice in many of these cases. I think right now I'm breaking doors open. It's a choice not to go to Greek schools. It does not happen with foreigners from other countries. I am referring to these foreigners. How are we going to help this foreign child whose father does not want to finish the Greek school? It does not, in fact, want to integrate into Greek society. Should we not force the father to send it to an end to nine years of compulsory education? Also, how will we rule out the case in which someone actually, taking the Greek nationality of their children over seven years, then leaving the country to go to other countries of the European Union? The argument was made: ‘Where does it go? He has no home anymore, this foreigner, who is eleven years in the country and has given birth to his child here." Up to a point, I'll agree. But he has another possibility. To go to other countries where he is given the right and the opportunity - and perhaps he will do so - to acquire citizenship from the child. Because it can now, as a Greek-speaking child, go to Germany, England, France, Belgium and stay there, marry a child, who will be Greek-speaking and pressed, but have nothing to do with Greece and not even know where the country is. The decision of the Council of State did not randomly set the criterion of the essential, genuine link to a foreign child's nationality with the Greek society. Of course, it is the legislature's sovereign right to award it, but the framework within which the legislature moves is specific, and that is also provided by our general principles and by the principles of the Constitution. You will allow me here, on the basis of this argument, to read you out of the proposal for a law - which all the Greek MEPs of the Independent Greeks made to the Greek Parliament in the previous parliamentary term for the abolition of the Ragosi Act - their justification. In the explanatory statement, therefore, they refer to some articles in the Constitution, saying: "The two main national pillars of guidance of any plans to amend nationality law must be the following: First, the continuity of the nation over the centuries, while cultivating the national conscience and, second, the maintenance of the social cohesion of our nation, while maintaining the basic institution of our family, which is the foundation of our nation and our society, which is a society of Greeks with national conscience and respect for human rights and not a simple civil society." Who sign this explanatory statement? Kammenos Panos, Macroe Rachel, Koudoura Elena, Xoulidou Stavrouula, Quik Terence - Nikolaos, Kollia - Tsarouha Maria. It is not enough for the Greek Independent Party today not simply to vote in favour of this draft law, which the government brings. When on the same draft law, there was disagreement between the New Democracy and the PASOK, the New Democracy never brought this bill for a vote in Parliament. He didn't bring it. We must do something similar and similar when we talk about such an important draft law, the parliamentary power of the Independent Greeks must do so. You cannot support the government and such an important bill, which has to do with the very functioning of the Constitution - in their own view, in their explanatory statement - omission and simply say 'I do not vote for it'. Take care and take care, if he can, that he doesn't come for a vote in the House. You cannot, on the one hand, say "I support the government" and, on the other, overlook such a bill and actually leave it in its luck. Because in this article, in this argument, the Independent Greeks invested during the previous period. I must also mention two issues, concerning what we mentioned earlier, namely that many foreigners will make use of this provision, and there is the possibility, whether intentionally or not, that they will leave the country. Based on the evidence of the Ministry of Education, while in 2010-2011 they were registered in the six grades of primary education ninety thousand foreign students are currently seventy-five thousand, that is, twenty thousand fewer, while in all previous years there was a stabilization of this number. These twenty thousand fewer are twenty thousand missing from the Greek schools for two reasons: either because, because of the crisis, their families left the country, or because they stopped going to school, having only gone to 1st or 2nd grade, because there is really a decline in the number of students from 1st to 4th grade. So these ten or twenty thousand in six years, could have acquired Greek citizenship and today were not in the country. Does anyone from us want to give Greek citizenship to someone who can at any time, before they can actually be incorporated, before they can learn the Greek society, before they can experience through this history, our culture, our customs, move away from the country with the Greek identity in their pocket? Anybody want it from us? Of course, migrant organisations, claiming, as they think, their interests, demand and demand to acquire Greek citizenship essentially automatically. However, as Greek MPs, we are obliged to balance between human rights, between the need to give Greek citizenship and those who wish to integrate and demonstrate that they have been integrated, but at the same time to ensure that our people do not just become a mass of people without coherent links between us. It is historic, because our crisis, as I said at the outset, is irrevocable. We must be responsible for standing and insisting. The New Democracy has so far insisted that at least nine years of compulsory education should be the main prerequisite, so that there is a real and genuine link between the foreign child and the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr Georgioda. Mr Michael Arvanitis - Avramis, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. In committee, we heard the Minister for Migration with a large style, with a narrative style - almost over one hour - telling us something natural about it, that the children of the second generation should definitely take Greek citizenship. The conditions will be analysed in the secondary, parents', one, and the other. The Minister reminded me today of the thirty-six minutes that she spoke on the show of Aunt Lena - the older ones will remember it - in which the Aunt Lena relates with a great style of beautiful fairy tales, with moral lessons. Here came the Minister with a large style and a narrative to tell us what? He's probably reading the preservative act of the death of Greece, the Greek genus. There is also a bill of intent today, of course, of great value, but I do not think there should be a bill of emblem now in this bill, which will judge the fate of its survival as such by the existence of the Greek race. This is an attempt and a systematic operation of genocide of the Greeks. He spoke to us for thirty-six minutes and said: “All you understand the necessity of voting for this law. People are anxiously waiting", he means the strangers who have invaded our homeland - "to regulate their lives here", in this afflicted, tortured country with the tortured Greeks. Instead of introducing a bill regulating the demographic problem, which is plagued by us, a bill is introduced with pretexts and whining - we will see these in the articles - on pity, charity, democracy and social cohesion. What do we need? Is it possible for there to be social cohesion with this invasion of people who have nothing to do with us in terms of self-sufficientness, idiosyncrasy? Proof of civilization, any civilization, have created their fathers and who are in their genes. They're coming here to do what? Will they be able to assimilate Greek culture, customs, traditions? That's unthinkable. But the Minister and anyone who preached this slow death, this slow genocide of the Greek tribe, took a walk in the region, in the cities, in our villages, to ask the cafes: “Do you want strangers to come? How do you feel, the islanders, that you are excluded from the invasion of the strangers? Do you want a population change?’ In fact, when we refer to Israel and especially to the Zionists, there is a reaction, there is a taboo. I shall refer to Israel today, which you have dared to accuse of a racist policy. Netanyahu himself, when he was controlled by his opponents or foreign journalists for why he created that wire of kilometres in the Negev desert, said: "I cannot allow a population change of my people and disrupt social cohesion." Aunt Lena's gone. She doesn't want to hear. Is that racism? Oh, no! I congratulate him on that. Protect his tribe, as sacred as there is! The tribe bears civilization. We're bringing who here? Those who are slaughtered and proud display the slaughter in the birthplace? The ones who stone their wives when they dare to fly across from home to the grocery store to get something for their children? Those who give mother a meal a piece of their child, which they themselves have executed? Those who carry, invade here, have this attitude, which is produced by their very nature. They've shown that for centuries. Suddenly we will incorporate them here and become good Greeks and preachers of Greek culture! Who can believe this nonsense? I do not understand what will contribute to democracy. What will contribute to democracy? Do they have to be indigenous too to contribute to democracy? I mean something else, more special. Do you know any of the lawmakers and the Minister, what citizenship means? It is produced from the words ‘species’ and ‘gene’. What does it mean? It means 'continuation'. In addition to the genus: 'continuation, passage of the genus'. That means citizenship. And citizenship is a mandatory legal consequence of nationality. That's citizenship. If a French native left to work here for a few years, automatically becoming a national as long as he sits, because he is obliged to observe and respect the laws of the Greek state. That's the big difference. And here comes Aunt Lena telling us it's one and that. Balance of everything! It's a plan! From this, Stepma, I call on the Prime Minister of Greece and not the leader of SYRIZA to immediately withdraw this shameful, unethical and ethnic bill. We regret that the House is empty at the moment. I also appeal and call for your patriotism, Greek MPs, to vote against this native bill. We don't need strangers here. Only the fewer men have, for the portions of terror they are given. We have no business here to give our children. More than two hundred thousand foreign Greek scientists have left abroad. And what's the difference? Do we have many Afghans to decorate research centres in the United States, Germany, Sweden, Australia? Do we have many Pakistanis? Do we have many Africans? But we have Greeks. And they're brains. And that's the natural difference that he himself made and didn't make it to spend his time. And now some forces want Europe to be populated. Europe has no leaders. It has only one fear, the Germans, who have done nothing but implement and carry out their plans. They'll hit their heads in a minute. But that's pretty little what I care about me, the Greek. I care about my homeland the tormented, these lands are bloody by real men to keep this country free. I'm looking at the time. I shall refer briefly to the decision taken by the Council of State. It is a very legitimate decision. It does not, of course, take account of this bill, nor of the precedent - because it is reciprocated, if I am not deceived, by the Supreme Court in full-collection - nor by the Constitution. The people are one of the elements of the state. And the main institution and the definition of the persons who join it is the sovereign competence of the national legislator. You are not, Minister, a national legislator. You are a common legislator and you must respect the Constitution and not make selective interpretations and misinterpretations of certain provisions with the smokescreen, this horrible smokescreen, allegedly humanitarian feelings. "Help me, poor man, not to be like you." Our country is suffering. The smokescreen of democracy supposedly and the smokescreen, hear, hear, be merciful. What kind of mercy? For the Greeks, who are suffering at the moment, you have no graciousness. Instead of the insurance funds being strengthened by young workers, the grandparents amplify them, and young people are being strengthened by the vulnerability they will get to live. We have this fracture and we burn and hurt our soul for children from Africa, from Asia, from anywhere else. The Greeks? No, we don't care about Greeks. Hey, no! You know, we won't allow that. The ordinary legislator doesn't mean he's uncontrollable. That's what your legislators should know, who advised you to draw up this abortion. Restrictions apply with particular importance. Constitutional provisions are in force which link the legal concept of the citizen with most of the consequences. I'll tell you some of them. The right to vote and stand for election. This is of course of interest to you first of all. The duty of military intervention and the duty of national solidarity. I ask this House: at times of national crisis or attack by the East barbarians, who a few, a few of them pushing us here - I mean Turk - will they show national solidarity? Do you know what national solidarity means? It means solidarity between the homosexuals. That's what it means. What kind of national? They will take out the knives and do the work they did and their forefathers, because they are their genes and no education makes them civilized. No education. And we have no obligation to accept it here. They have invaded your own actions, which are nothing but obedience to the orders you have taken from the Jewish-sionist bankers, who now have the world government and are looking to dismantle Europe. And I said that I am a little interested in Europe. I care about my country. That is why I call and call on the patriotism of this House - which I cannot doubt, of course, to vote against. The joint legislature cannot ignore the fact that the Greek State was founded and exists as a national state with a specific history and that that character is guaranteed at least by the definitions of Article 1(2) and (3) of the Constitution. The question is: Why is it true or not, or are you arbitrarily misinterpreting or abolishing by simple law as a common legislator? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] There must be a genuine link between the alien and the Greeks, with the Greek society and the Greek state, in order to give him citizenship, which, at the bottom of the scripture, is not necessary for Greece. Maybe it's for some ol' rulers, I said it before. Well, it must have a certain cultural background, a community with constant customs and traditions, a common language, a long tradition, elements transferred from generation to generation, from gender to Greeks. The constitutional legislator, the national legislator, takes into account the Greek. That is why Article 16(2) states that "State mission of the State is, in addition, to strengthen the national and religious conscience of the Greeks." In English, the Constitution is written. And since I said religious, all of them will become Orthodox? Oh, no. It's over two million and now, slowly, according to Turgut Ozal's plan, which, if he were alive now, would hug you -- they would understand Greece without war. That's what's happening now! We can't stand it by the Greeks! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask for your tolerance for one or two minutes. It is so much for anyone to say, or so much not to say. I, too, wonder how I'm talking about self-evident things right now. Our paw dies. We have a gradual genocide right now. We will not allow it at all! I invoke Rule 120. Ladies and gentlemen, what does Rule 120(4) say? He says every Greek citizen has a patriotic duty. What patriotic duty? If he finds that someone is trying to destroy the Constitution by any means. That is what Article 120(4) says. Of the minor, without declaring the provisions of the Constitution to be of minor importance, we have to say to the major. If, then, a Greek patriot sees a attempt to make genocide progressively in his people, he must, according to the wording of this provision, by any means attempting to turn against the attempted or attempted. I shall end with just one reading - I will supplement my second language, Mr President - for one reason, which, please, is of great importance. It's very important. "Sometime, this corner of the earth that we step on and call it Greece was glorified and happy and has had a culture where for two and a half thousand years it continues to remain and be admired by the whole world. No wise or unwise to date can write a single word unless it refers to the works left by the creators of this culture called ancient Greek culture. Once, then, our country was glorified, but later they enslaved it and lost its old glory and now our country is gradually enslaved. But after a number of years, our country stood up on the leg and after hard struggles against slavery, it was again released. In the days of slavery it has been dark and many "smart" and among them a Falmerayer claimed that the Greek race has faded and that what you are going to do now will not succeed. Now she crossed all races that the public had nothing with the ancient Greek race. But whatever they say, that has no value. We proved our Greekity. The fact is that our country has risen up, reborn and is free." Mars Velochiotis spoke in October 1944, at the People's Square in Lamia, from outside. If any of you believe in these words by Mars Velouchiotis, then vote against this disgraceful bill. If you don't believe it, download his portraits, which you have posted in your offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u109	Mrs Marcus from Potami has the floor as a special buyer for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the occasion of this bill, many were raped, with a intensity that actually gives the alpine impression, to slander the Potami. They rushed to discount our attitude, because the first day we discussed the bill in the committees we put our views and our concerns, not only on the issue of citizenship, but also on the other arrangements of the bill. Finally, within just two days it seemed who is really trying to contribute with sincerely and constructively and who returns to his extreme right -wings. Of course, the communication attack on the River continues by the same people who have no problem coexisting with the government and with MPs who signed a law proposal in 2012 to prevent foreign children from going to school, if they don't fit, and now they are asking for an amendment that does not give preferential benefits to immigrants if they don't get the money to the Greeks. Nevertheless, SYRIZA's problem is the river. So let me reassure you by making it clear that the river voted in favour of the bill at first. All the parafiscality that has developed over the last few days is ultimately unjustified by all children and young migrants. They are anxiously waiting for a solution. Following the decision of the Council of State, which proclaimed the President of the Council of State. 3838/2010 unconstitutional, any realistic attempt to regulate the issue had to move in a specific context. For example, the criteria chosen at the time, the legality and duration of parental residence and schooling were considered precarious by the court, because they do not substantiate - in the view of the majority, but contrary to the strong minority - the substantial integration into the Greek society. The bill we are debating today is very similar to what the previous government has prepared for, which has not touched on the issue of minors at all. So by extending the arrangements of the previous government, the bill is trying to overcome the objections of the Council of State, mainly by increasing the number of years of residence, requiring a specific type of residence permit for parents, increasing the years of education, criteria which, according to the explanatory statement, are considered to substantiate the effective integration of parents and children into the Greek society. The procedure laid down in Article 1A shall be correctly placed between the automatic acquisition of citizenship and the birth, based on the law of blood and the naturalisation process, of adults of older age, on the presumption that they are experientially linked to another country. This is also the practice that is being practiced throughout Europe. Of course, each country's citizenship policy is shaped on the basis of particular social, historical and economic conditions and also migratory pressures. However, for example, Italy, France, Germany and Sweden all have a semi-automaticly simplified procedure for the acquisition of citizenship for children and young people born or living there, but without any country following the absolute law of the territory. At the same time, of course, any change in the law of citizenship also needs a substantial integration policy. We also need to see the work that the state does to ensure the opportunities for integration, such as the full functioning of the Integration Councils in the municipalities, the existence of public units for learning Greek language and history, etc. But how does accession finally become a reality? With questions about national festivities and tests of Greek writing and reading, or with something found through everyday life, life relationships, friendship, neighbourhood and work? This essential inclusion, above all, must be achieved in our schools, the very place where there is no discrimination. Children and young immigrants came to committee and talked to us about their love for the country. Children who have participated in Greek education, have grown here, have built their life cycle in Greece since the early age, whether they were born here or not. What they told us is that taking the citizenship of the country where they live, grew and loved, without passing the process of an individualized Greekity test, is primarily a matter of morality. Apart from the moral dimension, however, a lack of citizenship has some other practical consequences. A Member State with a residence permit, instead of citizenship, cannot work in the public sector, does not have full access to the labour market, does not have political rights. Still, there are scattered other settings. For example, a foreign doctor is required to register with the medical association, but he has no right to elect and be elected to the organs of the club. A Greek university graduate cannot be enrolled as a lawyer in the judiciary. Even by naturalisation, a young man cannot, for example, work in the public sector, if he does not spend a year after having acquired citizenship, and he still has to prove that he knows the Greek language. Here I have the recent A.S.S.A.S.A. proclamation to see it. We cannot demand that the children who have entered the university give tests to determine, supposedly, if they know how to write. If anything, our society must be open to children. Guys who were born here and haven't met any other homeland. Kids attending Greek schools. Children who will be strengthening the Greek society and economy tomorrow with their work and skills. We therefore believe that the draft law is in a positive direction. On the issue of citizenship for minors born here, however, we have a different approach, which we believe is more fair and more effective. With our proposal, many more children will receive citizenship, which are already in Greek schools and learn the Greek language. Very simply, what does SYRIZA say? He says it takes the parent for five years before birth to be constantly legally in the country. When an application is made, after the child is entered in the first grade, he must have one of the licenses mentioned in the bill. If he does not have five years before birth, he must have ten years of continuous and legal residence again. What does the river say? He says the parent must be legal here at the time of birth. We are not asking for the five-year legal and continuous - I stress this - stay before. Our proposal covers the citizens of third countries who, for some reason, have lost legitimacy these years because of the crisis. It is hypocritical that SYRIZA's friends consider it easy for an immigrant today to have ten years of continuous work, so even a residence permit, to claim citizenship for his child. Already, because of the crisis, many have not been able to renew their permits. All of them, their children, are excluded from this process. The core of our proposal is the idea that a modern system for the performance of citizenship to minors should focus on the child and its essential integration. Not to depend on the nationality of the child from the choices made by his parents before he was born, but on the child's genuine involvement in society and the educational system. Why is education important and, indeed, the completion of primary education important? On the one hand, it means that the child through the follow-up of six years of Greek school has actually entered the educational system rather than opportunity. He has been able to contact Greek education, he has already built social ties with other children of his age and has already joined a first stage in the Greek school community, the society of children. In this way, the development of a link with the Greek society is much more substantial. On the other hand, the fact that parents wrote their child and allow him to go to school reflects their will after the birth of their child to create their family's living center. Simple entry in the first grade is not enough, for two reasons. First, why does the child make the first attempts to socialize outside his family environment by studying at school. Through the school process, contacts, joint activities, the child itself now develops a social conscience. And, secondly - let us not hide behind our finger - we know that in many schools in western Athens, in the suburbs of Piraeus there are immigrants who write their children in the first grade, but then, invoking their religious beliefs, remove them from education. We have to take into account reality and not just the theory. Our proposal also gives an incentive for parents to leave their child in school. Why is that bad? Why is it backwards? Should we not ensure access to basic education for all children, whether they are Greek or immigrant? The bill focuses exclusively on parental integration. That is what the explanatory statement says. Integration of the child is something that will come after citizenship - you say - and that is facilitated by it. Potami considers that the best documentation for parental integration is not legal and continuous residence before birth, but the parent's decision to integrate the child into the Greek school system. You consider the duration of legality. We examine the legality of the parent in two moments, the time of birth and the time when the child ends in elementary school. For these reasons, we believe that our proposal is more appropriate, fairer and more effective, it will cover more children and we invite you to accept it. In any case, this does not mean that we do not understand that there is a loose end to thousands of children who, at least one, will be covered by your own provision. It does not mean that we will vote against the article. I am not, of course, so sure of your co-government party. Potami incorporates this issue over time in its official proposals from the outset. We're not going to change now. The other side of the conversation we're having is migration. Potami has tabled concrete proposals, stressing the need for a national immigration policy, which will be the result of consultation, not only of the politicians and parties, but of those who face the phenomenon every day, the self-government institutions of the border, the port and others. The situation is good at European level. There is now a real awareness that the problem is not one of each country's own, but needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner. Greece must be ready to present its own policy, to forcefully claim the participation of the entire European family and to make use of the available resources, so that it can manage migration flows realistically and human beings. With regard to the other arrangements in the bill, we consider that they are generally in the right direction, but we have some reservations I will make in the debate on the articles. For example, with regard to the Seasonal Labour Directive, we are positive, but we are interested in discussing the existence and effectiveness of control mechanisms for the implementation of labour law in agricultural and rural activities. Unfortunately, following your predecessors' well-known practice, Article 13 enters completely irrelevant, regarding the establishment of a public limited company for the construction of natural gas projects. The Minister finally signed the memorandum, even without the company's existence. But he did not tell us why he wanted the new company to be set up. We understand the importance of the project, but you did not explain. I'm done with this, Minister. On citizenship you can question the correctness of our proposal. That is why we discussed it in committee and here. But you cannot question our intention to make this bill as comprehensive, fair and time-resistant as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mrs Marcus. On behalf of the JRC, the Special Rapporteur, George Lambroulis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, before I start putting our party on the table with regard to the bill we are discussing, to say this, of course, on the basis of the developments that are taking place on the background of the emerging government and lenders agreement, which leads to measures - for workers and pensioners - for the people's family in our country. We call on the people, and on this step forward, not on the agreement, to fight it on the road, at the workplace, to block the anti-grassroots measures, not to show any tolerance, no waiting, not to fear the break with the European Union, capital and power, but to enter into the fight to get the case in its hands. In this direction we call on him not to lose one day or an hour. With regard to the bill we are discussing today, we consider that it is not a separate section of this bill, but it is closely linked to the government's overall policy on immigration. Thus, while through the bill it grants - in the first part of it mentioned - Greek citizenship to a small part of the children of migrants, at the same time, with the active involvement of the country and by extension of the Greek Government, it contributes to the imperialist planning of large migratory and refugee sections. The SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, taking the decisions, directions and designs of the European Union and other imperialist organisations as sacred and inviolable, continues the political repression and caging of the refugee and immigration problem. That is why he voted for the European Union's decisions to create a new naval force, with the aim of suppressing immigration and even new interventions, to destroy supposedly slave trade circuits. That is why it is preparing to give NATO's new military base to the Aegean, contributing to the escalation of imperialist interventions with various pretexts, which will cause even greater refugee and migratory waves, even more dead refugees and migrants at the border, but in order to what? In order to serve monopolistic competitions for the control of rich production sources, in particular energy and their transport routes in our wider region. It is the government itself which is developing dangerous delusions about the European Union's alleged solidarity on the refugee - immigration issue, even calling on the European Asylum Services or Task Force via the European Asylum Service in Lesvos, waiting for the European funds to be provided to NGOs for the housing of a very small number of refugees and asylum seekers. It is the same government, with one hand empties the Almonds and the other it refills, because, he says, the European Union's funds allocated to the prisons of refugees and immigrants must not be lost. At the same time, does the demand for so-called solidarity between the partners in the European Union, which is furthering the deadlock, given that it is precisely the anti-immigration policy and the legal framework of the European Union that create, reproduce and recycle the refugee and immigration problem, as evidenced by the application of the Dublin III Regulations, EURODAC, Schengen, FRONTEX, the ‘TRIAT’ programme, the so-called ‘smart borders’ of the European Union, the notorious Directive 2008/115 which provides for eighteen-month imprisonment for those trying to escape from what? From poverty, hunger and death in their countries, which create who? The imperialist interventions of the European Union, the United States and NATO, where we as Greece, through the current governments and the current government, are broadly signing. The Communist Party has repeatedly said clearly to the working class and people in our country that the immigration issue cannot be dealt with outside the causes of this, without conflict with the European Union, that is, on the same road as capitalist development, especially when it comes to the capture of thousands of refugees and migrants in Greece, which have increased sharply in recent times. Of course, there can be neither a fundamental relief to the problem without a conflict with the Schengen Treaty, the DUBLIO Regulation, the operations of FRONTEX and so on. Especially for citizenship, our party has a completely different approach, and this is an answer and let Mrs Catrivanou listen very well, and she does not understand that from the Commission which was put forward by Mr Katsotis. In other words, as far as the party's position is concerned, you have raised your position earlier. So we have a completely different approach and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u113	We're happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u114	If you're happy, admit it and don't throw away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u115	Say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u116	So our different approach results from our position that there should be no discrimination in the rights of any child. That is why we have been proposing for many years and in this direction we are fighting for full rights for all children of migrants born or raised in Greece, without any separation, depending on the status of their parents. First of all, that. We're not connecting rights to citizenship. You propose citizenship to have rights. We call "rights" and citizenship...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u117	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u118	I'll tell you later. Secondly, registering in special polls of the municipalities inhabited by children. Self-evident acquisition of Greek citizenship after adulthood, if they so wish. All in all, our party is in place - and this was a common one, and I would say that, in this way, the New Democracy - with a view to defending the interests of migrant workers and their children, the need to tackle even some of the individual problems they face, while at the same time revealing, opposing and denouncing the charitable, anti-virtual arrangements of the draft we are debating today, in this case through the incorporation of the European Union's directives. So, in the part of the nationality of the bill, the possibility of having citizenship is abolished on the sole condition that Greece is born and the three cases which are reflected in the bill are also mentioned by the Minister. We are putting an issue - not only in terms of the first part, namely the acquisition of nationality on the grounds of birth and school - on parental leave, which is a precondition and which was certainly not in the previous law. Here we are tabling - and you know that very well - that these licences are difficult to obtain. There are many cases of immigrants who, although there are too many years left in Greece, even legally, cannot obtain the specific residence permits, either because of the very high violations or because of the strict conditions required for them to be granted. For example, for the long-term leave, an annual income of at least EUR 8,500 is needed, increased for each member of the family, five years of continuous legal residence and, in most cases, a certificate of knowledge of the Greek language is required, but for the acquisition of a tuition course, participation in an infringement exam. That is why only half of the so-called legal immigrants are licensed. So the children of tens of thousands of immigrants with paper stay out of the way, much more so the children of so many thousands without paper, even though their parents live and work for many years in Greece. Just for the same matter, not to repeat, we are placed on the second and third part of the conditions, namely the acquisition of citizenship on account of a student, but also on the acquisition of citizenship on account of a graduation from an HEI or TEI, which we consider to be a huge problem. It is also a negative element of the bill that it maintains the regulation of the Ragonisation Act to control the risk to public order and security, as well as the criminal obstacles to naturalisation, if the child's application for citizenship is made by the child itself after his age and it is characteristic that these criminal obstacles, between the real, serious - we agree - offences include offences such as resistance to principle and slandering. And now see: Slandering defamation is primarily a offense that the employer loads on the workers' backs the last two years, if you want, on the occasion of workers' mobilisations and not only in Larissa, when the workers organized their struggle and their claims and went and the employers denounced them and dragged them into the courts for a slandering defamation of the employer himself, etc. Such examples are too much on the ground. As is also a criminal offense, practical solidarity with immigrants without papers, such as housing, is viewed as even a criminal offence. We also have reservations about the new provision of the bill, whereby the immigrant is given the opportunity to ask for relapse in his name with a responsible statement after his adulthood. The bill makes no changes to the laws on naturalization contained in the Code of Nationality, which our party had denounced and voted against. In addition to the cheeky paradoxes, it actually required proof of economic restoration and integration and not just the integration of the migrant - many in the Chamber spoke earlier about the integration of the immigrant into social life - and, of course, up to the requirement that the immigrant who wants to be naturalised be Greek, his agreement with this socio-economic system, i.e. he works in the eyes of one - to say so - a certificate of social opinions. The bill only provides for the setting-up of a committee which draws up an integrated Code of Nationality, but without specific mention of what changes it will make or when it will be created. Finally, as far as the part of citizenship is concerned, we consider it negative that, in compliance with the Council of State's decision, the bill does not reintroduce the provisions for participation of immigrants in municipal elections, even with long and difficult procedures for obtaining residence permits, as provided for by the Treaty. 3838/2010. With regard to the incorporation of the two directives, which we will be further developing in the debate, we consider that both legislative texts are intended to complement and add to the body of anti-immigration policy, that is to say also to anti-immigration policy, which is adapted to the direction of ensuring cheap and controlled labour force for entrepreneurs and monopolies. And these plans are becoming even more important in these days, now that they are exploited with the pretext of the economic crisis, intensified by exploitation, but also by confusing the wages and rights of all workers. I would just like to refer to the part of the first directive, namely 2011/98, which reads as follows: The main change, which is mentioned in the explanatory statement, is equal treatment of workers with a single licence. In other words, it incorporates the corresponding provisions of the directive. This is how the holders of a single licence are treated equally with nationals, with workers in our country, in a number of areas such as, for example, employment conditions, age limits, working conditions, etc. - don't waste time. It also recognises them the right to strike, trade union action, education, training, social security, old age pensions and, of course, without prejudice to bilateral agreements, it also gives tax advantages if there is or has a residence in Greece. But in fact when we talk about equal treatment, what treatment are we talking about? What treatment does the Greek worker have today, so that the immigrant is treated equally with all that I have mentioned before? In other words, they will be treated equally in the same way as the rights of Greek workers - I should like to put it this way - and future emigrants in our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, you will give me some time. I think it is important that the draft law, in the sense that it has parts, parts, which are important in our view and are of a serious political nature. I think we have tabled a number of proposals in committee. I don't know if you've taken them into consideration. I am also referring to the Minister but also to Members present. As I said at the outset, regardless of our position on citizenship and on the other issues relating to the bill, we consider it necessary to make a series of proposals - and we do so and we will now - which propose changes to the bill so as to facilitate what is more in this direction in the bill. Firstly, on the issue of citizenship, rather than - as we have said - the different view that we have as a party with our logic, we believe that it is necessary to abolish the requirement of having specific residence permits from parents, which are very difficult to obtain and which even half of the so-called legal immigrants do not have. I would remind you of the example that I told you about terms, income, increases, etc. Secondly, it must be abolished both for the purposes of citizenship and for all permits to remain immigrant, which is unjust and especially in the current conditions of the poverty of Greek workers and migrants. Thirdly, on the issue of seasonal workers and on the incorporation of the directives, we believe that at least the provisions which particularly favour employers against the rights of migrant workers in the land and the insurance funds should be removed or altered, such as the provisions which substantially deny the employer's obligation to provide accommodation, the reduction of the minimum time to two months - I quote, in summary, the reduction in the payment of insurance contributions to one month - that is, we say, the advance payment of all the contributions for all the time of the withdrawal or in the worst case, the provision of direct and uncertain collection of contributions from subsidies, that is to say, grants via OPEKEPE. By the way, we would also like to raise an issue with regard to the insurance of all the workers of the land, of Greeks and of foreigners, in IKA instead of the OGA. There is no essential reason for this distinction, and we do not think there is any legal reason for it, since it provides work in any case. Just by pouring insurance into the OGA, employers save contributions because insurance in the OGA is cheaper at the expense of total social security. Finally, the bill refers to future seasonal workers who will come and ignore the migrant land workers already in Greece. What about them? Their rights must be guaranteed by a specific provision, because otherwise, Minister, we will also have 'Muslims' in the future. And fourthly, with the incorporation of the two European Union directives - which we say we disagree with their logic, because they link migrants' rights to the needs of the labour market - they are entering the bill with unacceptable exceptions to the equality of the rights of migrants who are not even compulsory, but who are potentially described. This is the government's initiative to put them in the bill. These exceptions must, in our view, be abolished. However, there must be no exception to the so-called 'equal treatment', i.e., to the principle of paid labour rights and social rights. Otherwise employers are demolished, as they have completely demolished, by violating every right, especially of immigrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Bright, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u120	I am presenting this for the Minutes, Mr President, and I am just being closed in half a minute. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, George Lambroulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Communist Party has also tabled an amendment on the regulation of OGA insurance contributions for a large part of small and medium-sized farmers, which is estimated at about two hundred and forty-five thousand, which, due to financial weakness, have debts to their insurers, but, in order to be incorporated into the law recently passed on the hundred instalments, they will have to pay in the second half of 2014 plus the current contributions of the quarter, quadruple, etc., which is impossible. So, with this amendment, we call for the above problem to be tackled, with the aim of enabling small and medium-sized farmers to be able to incorporate their insurance debts to the OGA in the regulation of 100 instalments. We are also calling on the government to accept the amendment in this direction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Before we proceed to the next special speaker, I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a special presence today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-eight students and students and four escorts from the School of Administrative Air Forces. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with Mr Nikolaos Mavragani on behalf of the Independent Greeks, a special speaker of the party. You have the floor for 15 minutes, Mr. Mavraani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Minister, as we have said in committee, this bill, in the view of humanity, is a bill, which was first necessary. Obviously the field of immigration or refugee fields also needs reform, it also needs adaptation, adaptation to geopolitical moments and geostrategic conditions, but also to the specificities of the economic reality of Greece and the social, immediately created. There is no doubt that the first article is crucial and gives the mark of this legislation. It is the central core, which will either give further value to the remaining legislation or reduce its value. Citizenship is an issue that all of us internally move and philosophically provokes each of us, who must marry his personal philosophy with social need and, of course, with the necessary humanism. However, the fact is that this latter, the pan-human value, cannot be adapted to conditions or people and their racial origins, but must in any case have a level playing field vis-à-vis all people. However, equal treatment is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, through vacant procedures, through procedures which, on the one hand, are vacant, on the other hand, create or may create potential problems at an already problematic time for Greece. Immigration to immigrant children is obviously a necessity, but the conditions under which it is given precisely the mark of the seriousness of dealing with this key issue and a key right of the Greek state to its assignment. Humanity is indeed the cause, but humanism must reach the end, because if it does not reach the end, it can be judged as hypocritical. So when we give it citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, to a child of six years, we give it some rights and make it easier for him to live. On the other hand, however, these rights or part of them, such as, let us say, registering in the polls, which is indeed a necessity and proving toward an advanced social and humanitarian society and which has not included it so far, may also occur outside citizenship. Why, then, do we not give these rights regardless of nationality while we can give them? Why should we accompany citizenship with these rights from the six years of a child, who has not even begun to realize his social forum? Will this child, will he enjoy any of the rights of citizenship in his six years, if at the same time - hypothetically speaking - will we give a 'bouquet' of rights to the child what will make his school and social life easier for him in these years? Will he enjoy anything more? On the other hand, one asks: "But why not give it, if you will perhaps give it a little later, if it stays in Greece and if it follows the whole course of compulsory education? Why don't you give it a little earlier?" Because citizenship should be accompanied by a national conscience. Citizenship is not a lever of pressure or'suppression' to shape national consciousness. The national conscience, ladies and gentlemen, must be created with freedom. Who told you that we should put the inner soul, the inner soul of man in the direction of brutal revolt, giving citizenship the legal culture that will accompany it and the legal arsenal? Who told you that we can in this way create a new humanitarian spirit in Greece, with which we will also love ourselves? Ladies and gentlemen, let us not pretend. When a child of a low social and economic grade - because of these classes - comes from these children - is allowed, without the obligation imposed on him by nationality at the end of compulsory education, to fulfil - if his parents so wish - this compulsory education is likely not to be fulfilled because of economic and social problems. Since the proposing Ministry has the feeling or certainty, as it appears, that the vast majority of these children and their families will stay in Greece until the end and will fulfil the school obligations, why does it go so far as to give it from six years and does not wait until the end? What will it do if - I repeat - at the same time the Greek state ensure, without blackmailing through the mandatory nationality, that the legal arsenal of the legal rights of the child is in order to feel human and socially equal to the rest until it fulfils the full education? What else is he going to get with citizenship? Why are we rushing to do this, as long as we are so sure there will be no school leak? My feeling is that through this study, which, in my opinion, is of great importance which will create many problems, will create another: the ghetto of untrained and uneducated people. These people most will, because of economic and social problems, leave their schools to work, may not naturally be at the age of six, seven or eight, but may be at their nine. Then what do we have? A ghettoizing of the uneducated and unscrupulous people whom we ourselves will have created on the grounds of humanism. That's why I've been talking about hypocrisy, about bias and curiosity. Citizenship, I repeat, cannot be linked to the legal arsenal, with which any of our fellowman can be equipped to feel equal and equal rights - but also obligations - within the school and social framework during childhood. We cannot under any circumstances blackmail the application for citizenship from the families of these children, when they are in such an unconscious age, in exchange for a legal arsenal. We can distinguish them. This is indeed a responsible attitude for the Greek state. However, in order not to monopolize the debate on Article 1A - although, as I have said, it is of great importance to us - I will tell you that in the same article there is another provision that gives us great reluctance, which we consider to be particularly dangerous. It is paragraph 1(g) and paragraph 1.9. It gives legislative authority to the Minister concerned, so that he can differentiate the documents required for all these procedures. You understand that this cannot be part of the power to be delegated by the House to the executive and the Minister concerned. It is extremely dangerous and very serious, and we need to see those who need to see it again. It is also set as a limit the twenty-third year of age for the remaining categories of children or young people who want to complete their studies in Greece, whether at the IOIs or in the middle of education, etc. The consultation was set as a limit in the twenty-fifth year and went down to the twenty-third. In order to avoid any contradiction with the past, we believe that, for the purposes of completing the formation of each individual's basic conscience, this limit should be reached by twenty-one years, as provided for in Article 108 of the Treaty. Date of birth: 4251/2014. With regard to Articles 7 and 8, they are of particular importance, which revolves around the rights of those workers either on a seasonal basis in Greece or on a permanent basis, that is to say, those who hold a work permit or those who have a seasonal work permit. The reasons for these Articles are, in particular, the adaptation by Directives 2011 and 2014, namely 2011/1998 and 2014/36. However, if we read these directives carefully in the 'Exemptions' chapter, it allows the Member State - and how not - to exclude those migrants from seasonal or permanent work. Obviously, because they consider that they are part of the mesh of the imperium of each state, depending on the economic potential it has to shape and its privileged policy, of course always its citizens, the Greek citizens in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to remind you who came and joined the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on 17-3-2014 that the UN took a decision, from which unfortunately Greece's representative was absent. It was the Human Rights Committee that said that all human rights in Greece, at least fundamental, have been violated during the budgetary adjustment that the previous governments have done brutally. He also said that violation of these human rights is prohibited, even if it is done for the purpose of serving budgetary objectives or serving external debt. But this very crucial decision for us, such a crucial decision for human culture and for legal culture, must also be taken into account in this bill. Because it is obvious that everyone in our souls is approaching our fellow people with feelings of love, especially those who ended up in Greece because the inhumane conditions in their nations have been banished from there. They didn't want it. They left because they had to leave, and we understand it. And they must be embraced with all the strong love. However, when it comes to the time of the act, unproven and indifferently you have to make a choice: if the financial resources are not enough - and here it appears that no one can argue against the contrary - and if it has indeed been certified by the highest international forum, such as the UN, that these economic resources are not enough, but have been minimised to this extent to the extent that the human rights of Greek citizens have been violated, then a choice arises: Prefer Greek citizens from migrants for pay policy. So both Articles 7 and 8 should, since there is absolutely no enforcement by Community law, by Union law, be changed in that direction. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, since these issues are of sovereign national, social and economic importance to us, the Independent Greeks say that they are voting against the bill in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. The reason for this is the special speaker from PASOK, George Arvanitides, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the position of the Independent Greeks I think they should answer whether or not on such an important issue, which has to do with the establishment of the Greek state, and who are Greeks and who take citizenship, they continue to support a government that brings this bill. I think it's useful to hear it from the Independent Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, I could not start my introduction without mentioning the current situation, which I find strange today that no one wants to touch. The country is following the last act of a five-month extension of performance with the main public the components of SYRIZA and ANEL, a performance which is close to turning from a real tragedy, as the account that will be borne by all Greeks is the stirring up of growth, market freeze, huge deposit outflow and the 8 billion-dollar package - which rather than the measures of previous restrictive policies imagine sweet - which are measures presented by the Prime Minister and on our own proposal. The Prime Minister, as director of the performance, has so far failed to coordinate his factors. The assistant director definitely wanted to turn her into a drama on the heroic pages written in Cugie. The main protagonist was degraded to a second role, when the publicity lights blinded him to lead the negotiations to a dead end, applying creative ambiguities, the theory of games, to which he has excellent studies. The first names of the marquis play their own institutional role in their own separate scenario and the rest of the triumph has been divided into groups that compete in ziglers with fire next to the pyridian shed of the rupture. If it has not been possible to coordinate the rates of this performance to date, I very much doubt that it will succeed in the next few days, which will all together be called upon to enforce the account to the Greek people, an account that proves to be the definition of the disgraceful and the rewarded one - and these are conditions that we hear every day on other committees - as it has been excessively burdened by the uncoordinated and timely settlements of the government. Because when you shake the political time, pre-negotiating the negotiation, you at the same time deplete the bank's deposits, the public's cash, the budgetary surplus, the country's development perspective and the political message of the elections, which was supposed to be added to the Greek patronage, the SYRIZA - ANEL government. So, with guns deported, the country was driven with the back against the wall and the extremely painful measures proposed by the government to our creditors on Monday, measures that allow the proposals of the previous government to fantasize as a distant oasis and on e-mail Hardouvelis as a "child wishes", with the friendly term that has been developed recently. We are therefore coming to a new, painful performance - an extension of the loan contract, when we could be closing this contract today. The sad thing is that, for the major national issue, which is public debt, we have learned nothing new. All this, ladies and gentlemen, gives us grief and disappointment. As PASOK, we reiterate our key position with great intensity, that the promised debt relief measures by our partners must finally be implemented. The Prime Minister should have taken the initiative to form a large negotiating group that would consistently set the negotiation on a new basis. But you have invested in the sterile antimony rhetoric, populism and witch hunt. We hope that it will no longer be too late for the necessary national consultation. Now, however, your self-criticism is also required. Ladies and gentlemen, the parties involved in the government have not been able to reach an agreement on citizenship. We were all aware of the ANLL's placement on the subject. We PASOK remember that in 2012 they proposed to exclude migrant children from education. Your cooperation also bears this stigma, Minister. We don't do political games. We're not negotiating if we're going to vote on Article 1. Our concern was and remains to find a solution for children that is sustainable. I also told the committee that our view is that Mr v. 3838/2010 had solid moral, political and legal bases. In this respect we insist on the first day that, strangely, the decision of the CSR, three - four months before it was officially published. It was a difficult decision for us to discuss with the then government partner and reach agreement in order to establish a joint proposal for the benefit of second generation immigrants. I would remind you that the first reactions of the New Democracy following the leaking of the decision and the Minister responsible did not prejudge the climate of consensus that would be followed. There was indeed enthusiasm in the ranks of the New Democracy Party. There was a feeling of joy and justice for the decision of the Council of State. There was also the logic of the rapid and festive abolition of the n. 3838/2010 as a whole and to tighten the provisions of previous legislation. None of this happened. PASOK stood firm and then against this political logic and launched an intra-government dialogue to find a common place. The truth is that the dialogue encountered obstacles, but its results were that we decided to take a step forward, reform migration legislation and then move on to the necessary amendments to the Code of Nationality. Ladies and gentlemen, any citizenship system cannot function effectively unless it is based on functional immigration legislation. It was therefore a prerequisite for any new legislation on citizenship to correct the imperfections of how administration treats immigrants. Because of the juncture, we should see how many immigrants will guarantee their legitimacy by living in a country in an economic crisis. So we did this today, and things are going better. We have been sensitive to the issue of second generation migrants and the migration family. Young children, what today is the subject of our debate, are much more effective and, in relation to the past, the risk of awarding them has been minimised. The previous government did not have time to submit its own draft law, which contained provisions on citizenship and immigration. Of course we all know for what reasons. The new government took advantage of the provisions it found on the nationality of the second generation and added the well-known provisions concerning children born in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great conquest that today we are not discussing whether the children and young people of the second generation must acquire Greek citizenship. We are essentially talking only about when they will acquire it. In society there has been no alarm. The extreme voices of 2010 are not heard. More and more do accept the reality of the second generation. PASOK has in the most official way taken over the responsibility. It supports the law on citizenship that the Ministry of Interior brings. There's a birth dispute. I don't know if it's pretextual. We are calling - and we are pleased today with the position of the Minister - on the part of the Minister to divide the arrangements into two articles - which he announced at the beginning of the debate, so that we can see in practice whether it is a pretext for the agreement on the provisions on student mobility. We'll discuss more thoroughly the articles of the law later. Today I would like to insist on a more general view of the issues you raise in our crisis. He said recently, Mr. Panousis said the country doesn't fit any more immigrants. He said so on the occasion of the entry of thousands of people basically from the Aegean islands. It is a great deal of pressure that our country is taking, but panic is not the best consultant. It leads to wrong decisions that do not solve problems. There is a confusion in Greek society. There is a populism and an convenience that levels different situations. The xenophobic logic of deporting everyone or the corresponding other, supposedly solidarity, which tells us to legitimise them all, ignores the fact that it is the immigrants who have a residence permit, but it is the refugees who come from war zones and others who are uncircumcisedly entering Greece today in search of work. We must not forget, too, that the vast majority that enters our country has another final destination, unfortunately for them. A few words about each charge. The six hundred thousands of immigrants currently holding a residence permit in the country are people who have lived for many years legally in the country. We also have the children of immigrants, which we are discussing today. We have women and men married to Greek and Greek women. The majority of them have been in the country for over ten years. It goes without saying that we are talking about fellow citizens in society and the labour market. We cannot enter into a discussion about our country's capacity. Refugees who enter European territory through our country seek security. We, but also the European Union, have a legal and moral obligation to protect them and to recognise them as beneficiaries of international protection. Given that we cannot set out in advance how many of these people are, we have to be vigilant so that we can effectively welcome them, but also share the burden of their hospitality and establishment in all the Member States of the European Union. Immigrants who enter our country, without having the right to protection, must return to their country of origin. Tough truth, but there is no other way to maintain social cohesion. That is, in short, the reality we live in. In any case, however, the government's responsibility is great. All this time we have heard different voices and approaches from members of the government who have made interventions on immigration. The establishment of a post as Deputy Minister for Immigration has so far not contributed to the government's coordination. We hear different approaches from the Minister of Civil Protection, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence. At the same time, the Minister was late to take office and so was the delegation of powers. You have wasted valuable time, while you had to organize the Services, to welcome the increased burden of refugee flows. We see the amendment you tabled to set up a special secretariat to manage European funds. You've already been too late. In the summer it will be over and you will have done nothing essential to deal with the emergency situation of refugees and the islands that are receiving them. You ask the local government to help resolve the problems, at the same time that you asked them and the last available euro from their funds. Another special secretariat will solve the problem? When did you realize the need to set up her? To date, and for many months, the government has only paid you wages and pensions. She is even being taken over for her achievement. Is that the order you took? You just wasted valuable time. You created a place of Deputy Secretary at the Ministry of Citizen Protection to coordinate immigration. Was it necessary for any particular reason, which we cannot understand, or should the opposing minister simply be awe-made by a party member of the Independent Greeks? All this, ladies and gentlemen, costs money. Should we wait for another secretary in the field of immigration policy, so as to clarify how we are going to deal with this top problem? You admit that the institutional framework you have found, Mr. 3907/2011, who voted for PASOK, but did not vote for SYRIZA, is a good law and you announce its full implementation. It is a good thing to get back to reality - a good start, then! - but at some point, it takes self-criticism for your previous attitude. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law restores a part of the wider immigration policy that has been brutally interrupted by the decision of the Council of State. So the canvass of the institutional framework promoted by the PASOK governments is being supplemented: a modern democratic framework, which needs a progressive, coordinated, effective and capable government. On whether you are effective you will be judged not by the big words. We will vote on the bill at first, calling on you to accept the changes and additions we have proposed to the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u125	Thank you. The cycle of special speakers has been completed. It would normally be advisable now, because there are many speakers, and at last they should also speak, to start the list of speakers. If Mr. Kolkalis wants to speak as a parliamentary representative to take him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u126	Let others take the lead, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u127	Wait a minute. My request is to start the list of speakers. Please, Mr. Red. I'll give you the floor soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u128	Yes, of course. Let some others take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u129	We always find solutions when there's good will.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u130	And a good president, right? It's not a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u131	So the first group of speakers to speak first, for seven minutes, is Mr Clinton Davis. Karayannis, Karaoglou, Lagos, Tahiaou, Kanelli, Haikalis, Gregorakos and I quote them according to the order of the parliamentary power of each party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u132	Once again, good President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u133	Mr Karayannis, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes. Please do not keep up with the time, because this will enable a greater number of colleagues to speak. I'm sure Mr. Karayannis will hear my call.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill we are debating today in this House does not only restore a great injustice, but shows the sincere intentions of this government, with the worthy burden on the Left, to make social claims and fair demands for many years, which shield and broaden democracy, because citizenship, above all, is a question of democracy and not a simple right. By voting for this law, the Greek Parliament sends a message of social acceptance and social integration to the children of second generation migrants born or raised in our country, acquired Greek education and form an integral part of our national collectiveity. This bill does the self-evidentness of a country, which is a member of modern multicultural Europe, setting the moral and political foundations for the effective expansion of democracy. After all, the legal bond of the state to the citizen, which is citizenship, is not a privilege, but a right to an intercultural society, an inalienable right to all children born by foreign parents and raised in a place, the only place they consciously recognise as their homeland. After all, people feel safer and more integrated into a framework in the country that grants them citizenship. We should not overlook these groups' contribution to dealing with the great problem of the infertility of our older Western societies. Of course, from European experience, we see that having citizenship is not a necessary and capable treaty for achieving social integration. In order to achieve social integration, I should like the host population to be receptive and positive about immigrants, as should migrants really want their full integration into the host society. Finding the ideal balance point of this relationship is a crucial question of social cohesion and integration. This bill takes a very important step in the above direction, which is significantly enhanced by the acquisition of citizenship before the adulthood of the child. At the same time, as a host country, we must do everything possible to restore this very delicate and sensitive relationship. I think that the long experience of the Greek dispersion can be very useful in shaping all those integration policies. Professor of Modern Greek Studies of the University of Birmingham, Dimitris Giovas, in the excellent English-language poem of the "Greek Diaspora and Migration since 1700", responds to the above considerations, using a series of bipolar and anti-positive terms, such as home - hostage, national identity and identity immigrant, creatively developing the relationship between experience and memory. With the reference to the Greek diaspora, let me note here that this bill is of greater value, because it comes at a time when it comes to indirectly restoring all injustices, pain, humiliation and humiliation suffered by Greek immigrants, our grandparents, from the very old years until today, at all the lengths and backs of the earth. As a people of migrants, we must never forget the signs "EKT OF HELLENS AND SKYLIS" outside the restaurants of America in 1920, the ghettos of the Greek gastarbiter in Germany in 1960 and the recent crisis, which led to thousands of our new children abroad. In conclusion, I would like to remind the dissidents of this bill of our Municipal Singing "My Extended, Bird" from Epirus, from the Continent of Poverty, Xenon, Racism and Immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Karagiannis. The Member of the New Republic, Mr Karaoglu, has the floor. Please keep in mind, as Mr Karayannis has done, the year of seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be ruthless to discuss this bill, a bill which, in my opinion, is secondary or three-fold, if you would like, a priority, ignoring the current political, social and economic environment and especially as it has been shaped in recent days. It is true that our country lives in an unprecedented climate of complete insecurity, intense uncertainty and appalling confusion. We are all experiencing a dramatic situation, a situation which has escalated for five months, which has been on the knees of the economy, which has affected society and, unfortunately, is in danger of breaking apart from Greece. All this because of your Government, the government of SYRIZA, which, promising rabbits with rocks, does not hesitate to lead us literally daily on the rocks, provided that the party of the audience, its own components, its own children, is satisfied. Since the first time the left-wing government has been in power, it has had one single objective to implement its left-wing ideas in practice. You promised the country's euro stay and today, our country is threatened with a return to the drachma. We hope, of course, today or tomorrow that the agreement will be finalised and that this visible danger will be removed. You promised hard negotiations, and today, five months after these - I put in introductory words - 'hard negotiations' e-mail Hardouvelis is literally a children's excursion in front of the measures that are expected to come. What happened these five months? Uncertainty has aggravated the recession, you have exhausted the primary surpluses, leading us again to deficits, you have cancelled all investments, you have committed all state-owned and non-governmental cash reserves - see local government - bring additional packages and additional unemployment, and now you are leading us to a much tougher than previous memorials. This is the cost of Tsipras policy: defrauding the people, additional austerity, new hard and painful measures, breaking with logic, with dramatic consequences for Greek citizens. In five months of the SYRIZA - ANEL government you have always been used to seeking accomplices. You are talking about development in the absence of the real economy, you maintain an alibi of failure, you invent excuses, you discover enemies and you are always in the role of the victim, as if you were not the one who has taken the country to the polls with the well-known constitutional diversion on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic, as if you are not the one that leads us to the current destructive deadlock. The worst is that your first-class ministers and officials, even now, at the very hour before the agreement - which we hope will become a reality - are again discussing referendums and elections in a suffocating economy and in a troubled by stress, insecurity and uncertainty of the Greek people. Due to your deadlocked policy, you were reinstated at the table of so-called negotiations that you might make Grexit, when, if we remember just five months ago, our government, the government of national cooperation of Anton Samaras had guaranteed and achieved the country's return on a development path - in 2014 it closed with growth after six years of continuous recession - and had restored the country's credibility internationally. He had guaranteed and achieved the country's stay in the euro. He had succeeded in returning to stability and normality in the daily life of Greek citizens. We have laid the foundations for the recovery of the economy. We established our presence in Europe. We restored the optimism to the Greek citizens and you succeeded in destroying all this in five months. Anything you promised, gentlemen of SYRIZA, five months ago, in the famous "Thessaloniki program", proved to be a very great lie. You deceived the Greek citizens by telling them everything they could not do at the time. You're setting up a client state, sending the account to the citizens. You have converted ERT into 'HUMAN CHANNEL'. You're provoking the state with blurred occupations of vegetarians. You work in government positions and in other positions of responsibility partners, cousins, nephews. Remove excellence. You're pulling out the top security prisons. You liberate dangerous criminals and political criminals. You cancel significant investments that will stimulate growth and the market. You are making a clear vineyard the country itself, allowing illegal immigrants to enter. Now, with this piece of legislation you are giving indigenous children of foreigners with little or no conditions, in fact, without understanding the needs of society and sending incorrect messages to these illegal immigrants, when in the first five months the percentage of illegally entering migrants reached 600%. In all this, the oxymobile is that you are actually doing what you have denounced the opposition. It is characteristic that within five months of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, within a hundred and fifty days, ten bills have been passed, of which two sanctions for legislative acts - remember what you have said in the past about legislative acts, namely 'parliamentary coups', 'anti-democratic actions', etc. - and seven in the form of an emergency. Of course, we must add thirty amendments which are irrelevant to the main legislation, which you have brought as a government. In other words, you are doing exactly the opposite of what you have been complaining about up to five months ago. New morals from the first left government! Now, with this piece of legislation, with the legislation we are discussing today, enter issues of particular sensitivity in a clipboard and fragmentary manner, only to satisfy once again your companions and your party audience. You prioritise the replacement of the Greek National Code, when there is an uproar of the immigration problem, thus attracting illegal immigrants, affecting the image of the country and creating a huge problem in our country's tourism. You give citizenship to some, without strict conditions, simply by registering their child in the first class of Greek primary school. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an open invitation to illegal immigrants to register their child in the first grade and automatically obtain a residence permit for themselves and for their family. In this way, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government affects social cohesion, dismantles the country's social fabric, when hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants are waiting to cross the Greek border. In conclusion, I would say that the priorities set by the government's gentlemen are secondary and triumphant - not to say more - with disastrous consequences for society and the citizens. We have said - and we repeat this - that we will support any initiative that will help in the development and progress of our country. But we will not be involved in breaking social cohesion and social fabric. Unfortunately, this bill is a major blow to the social fabric, and we are therefore voting against it at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u139	Just a minute, Minister. Before giving the floor to the Minister, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, ten students and teachers from the Hellenic American University. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] He has asked for a minute's speech by Mr. Voutsi. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u140	I'll need a minute. I shall refer to the speech by my dear colleague Mr Karaoglou. I would like to remind you - I cannot remain silent because we have been talking about it in the committees and in Ethiopia - that for some time now we are not allowed to speak about 'death immigrants', but about irregular immigrants, undocumented immigrants, who enter the country outside the law or anything. However, the expression of 'destructive immigrants' in international treaties and in discussions both in Europe and elsewhere has, in any case, been put to the forefront of the public debate. Obviously, everyone takes responsibility even to say what they want. For God's sake! But I wanted to remind him. And if Mr Karaoglu wants to make a correction on this, he can do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. Mr. Lafazanis has asked for the floor. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, allow me to table legislative improvements to Rule 13 and take them into account for the Members, in order to use them for their place. In paragraph 4, the words ‘an opinion of the Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency and Act of the Ministerial Council’ shall be replaced by the words ‘and the opinion of the Committee on Public Enterprises, Banking, Public Procurement and Social Security Institutions of the Parliament’. That is to say, from the Committee on Institutions, we are going to the Committee on Public Enterprises in order to express an opinion. In paragraph 5, the words ‘the Presidential Decree adopted by a proposal’ shall be replaced by ‘the joint Ministerial Decision’. In other words, instead of having a presidential decree approving the new company's statute, we will have a joint ministerial decision. After the word ‘Economic’ the words ‘published in the Official Journal of the Government’ shall be added. It's purely verbal. After the word ‘to be drawn up’ the words ‘and approved’ shall be added. And that's typical, completely legal, as an addition. We will now distribute it to your seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u143	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, for seven minutes please. Until the honourable Member is given the floor, I shall announce that with the nomination. 9103/749/22-6-2015 Parliamentary President's decision was established as provided for in Article 34(7) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure Subcommittee responsible for matters of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction of the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice. This decision has already been posted to Parliament's Transparency, will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u145	Thank you. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have previously heard from the Minister who was here saying that 'we have taken into account the previous bill, which had not been passed by the Council of State, from various organisations, from various illegal immigrants present here. In short, we've heard them all. We have heard their views, except for Greek society. Unless you all were here and you will vote in favour of this bill you are illusion that our Greek fellow citizens who are outside accept what is going to be done here today. I have heard some people say that the most important thing today is the negotiation that is taking place and it is not this bill. You're making a big mistake if it's not intentional what you said. The most important thing we are discussing today, the most important thing that we are discussing in this House in general to date is this bill, because, no matter how difficult Greece is to pass, it will not die, we will survive. But that is what is happening at the moment and at the moment, when all the eyes have fallen on the negotiation, precisely for that very reason, when the Greek people are levelled and every retired person looks - and rightly so on his side - how he will get a 50th more into his pension and not care if the illegal immigrants go in, but if the evil is done in our homeland. So, this juncture did you choose at random? I do not believe it at all - specifically in order to pass this smuggling plan, which, he says, will give Greek citizenship to the children of a second, third or any generation. But citizenship - to make it clear - is not a medal. It's not the chocolate that a student is about to get because he came here. And citizenship - well or badly for all of you - you cannot give it either with papers or documents, seals or prunings. citizenship is given by the almighty God and by the mother nature. No one else! So we cannot give citizenship to the child who came here and become a Greek citizen. I don't understand! Where's this thing going? Why would this thing happen? If you want, give him the necessary documents and the citizenship he needs. And because in Greece we are going through a humanitarian crisis - and you all know it very well - and we do not want people to get sad and to go through difficult, to do everything possible to get out an hour ago and go where they want to go. Germany, France, Sweden? Where do people want to go? We should make it easier for them too! But not keep them here. We're having a bad time like Greece! Don't you feel sorry for people, you who are so humanistic? Should we keep them here, too, trouble them with us? Let people go. I repeat that citizenship is no medal anyone can get. He can be a good student, he can respect, he can do anything he wants, but he can't get citizenship. I also heard it a moment ago - we heard it from the Minister - in the debate we have had, to discuss and say that it does not satisfy the immigrants and the government itself with the bill that we are voting on. A question that we do like Golden Dawn: why didn't you bring this bill otherwise? Why didn't you bring it another way that would cover you, but also the immigrants you want to satisfy? Why? Is it because you know that the drop that the glass is going to run out is too close? Why do you know that the Greek people will never accept this thing? So you are the left and you are so democrats, let us make a referendum, of what is so much afraid of the Greek Parliament. For the Greek Parliament is talking about democracy and all these democratic institutions, but when it comes to appealing to the Greek people to make decisions for the Greek people themselves, we do not listen to them. That is where the Greek people can't judge. As long as he brought us into the House and placed us, he's good. From that point on, we take care of everything for him. So do a referendum and we as Golden Dawn will respect it. If the majority of the Greek people want anyone from the Congo, from the Earth of Fire, from Zuaziland and I don't know where, to be Greek, if the Greek people have come to this mess, we will tolerate it. Well, you should know that as Golden Dawn, we won't tolerate it at all. We will do everything we can by any legal means, within and outside Parliament, to stop this unacceptable draft law. We also heard from SYRIZA's rapporteur a moment ago, but also from the minister, talking about national conscience and about children, who must enter Greek society, about the nation that must be better. Where and where? You leftists, the anti-borders, the anti-religion and the homeland, are you talking about a nation? Are you talking about national conscience? Who are you trying to fool here now? Are you trying to pet any ears of Greek citizens who listen to you and say all this? You don't believe in all this stuff. How, then, are you concerned about the national consciousness of illegal immigrants? That can't be. It's a form of oxymomile. We have also heard the rapporteur from the New Democracy saying that it is very important that the bill - which I agree with myself - is very important and that we cannot withdraw or correct it tomorrow by leaving here. Let us therefore stress to everyone that the Golden Dawn has the will and the strength, and also the determination, when it is given the opportunity of the Greek people, these things that are happening in the Greek Parliament to withdraw. We have the power and the mood, and we can do it, so long as the Greek people give us the power. Because you, too, have had the strength, so have you. You also said something earlier, in which I fully agree, that Muslims avoid going to Greek schools. Yeah, that's right. However, I would like to point out here that the governments of so many years, of yours, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, the Pomakus, who have Greek blood on the pomacochoria, prompted them and forced them to go to Turkish schools, to learn the Turkish language and not to learn the Greeks they seek. We ourselves have given this part of the Greek people to the Turks. Why is that? And that's random? I also have a great question I have - and here you are proving it quite clearly - that the left-wing governments and as an ideology are clearly in favour of globalisation. So not to sell that story that's been telling us all these years. I repeat again that when no one has a national conscience, does not believe in their homeland, does not believe in religions, then there is a pluralism and there is a massage, what globalisation does, what you are trying in any way to apply it to Greece as well. That is why the Golden Dawn will never endure and we accept all the consequences that have happened to us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I would like to. One last thing I would like to add. There are a lot of things I would like to say, but I can't make it. I would like to say that the Greek state, the Greek nation for us, is perhaps the only one in all of Europe and in the Balkans made up of a nationally solid population. All Greeks are conscious, happy that they are Greeks, there are no separatist tendencies in Greece and also, everyone in the vast majority we are Christian Orthodox. So what you're doing today is putting the tombstone on. Since you have not succeeded in other ways, other governments, to make us like other states that we see as being sown by victorious wars with separatist tendencies, you bring to Greece millions of illegal immigrants, who are randomly all Muslims, and all of them will create issues in our country. You know, I think, very well everyone, just some people don't want you to see it and admit it. I repeat that, of course, we are not going to vote for this bill and as a Golden Dawn, we will do what goes through our hand, at any cost again to stop this disastrous policy at the expense of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament on 10-06-2015, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. Commission Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force, criminal proceedings brought: (a) After the 28-3-2014 report - a complaint by the Panhellenic Association of Fotovoltaics and related to the former Minister of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change Ioannis Maniatis and the former Deputy Minister of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change Asimaki Papageorgiou on the allegedly committed offence of the breach of duty (259 PPC), on the method of calculating the system limit value allegedly leading to an increase in the accumulated deficit of the special management account of the RES; and (b) following the Association's 10-1-2015 petitions under the name ‘Pan-Hellenic Association of Fotovoltaic Steps and relating to the former Minister of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change George Papaconstantinou and the former Deputy Minister of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change Papageorgiou for the offences allegedly committed at the Service (256 PCC), the breach of duty (259 PCC), the infidelity (390 PCC), the blockade of the operation of other public utilities (259 PCC) and even distinguished from the result (295 PRC), on the alleged non-preservation of the proper functioning of the specific APRC account and on the electricity market, as they were due to their duties. Mrs Tachiau has the floor on behalf of the Potamio. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mrs. Tachiau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me not repeat what has already been said about our positions. Our rapporteur, Katerina Marcou, has mentioned them. Our positions are already known. I would, however, like, on the occasion of the draft law on citizenship, to seize the opportunity and focus my position on a more general issue, which concerns society as a whole and not just the legislator or legislator. And that is no more than the incorporation of migrants into our country's social fabric. It is necessary for the Greek citizen to form a cultural attitude distinguished by reciprocity, mutual recognition and respect for human rights. In other words, a new citizen's conscience, free from racist influence, must be created and cultivated, a conscience which does not see immigrants as individuals to economic exploitation - because, of course, this is also the case - let us not be fooled - nor as the different ones to be tolerated and endured, but which must be seen as an investment for the future. History and experience have shown that in some societies and countries this is becoming easier. Others get harder. I would like to mention the example of a Greek. I envied, once listening to the late sculptor, Philolao Tloupa, who went to Paris in 1955 and described how France at that time had the ability - probably still to integrate artists, spiritual people, anyone who wants to live, create, act on its territory. And I remember that he said he was able to get the best out of you. This is something that I have, and I would like very much at some point in my country to be able to make the best of the people who come to live here. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Obviously, too many factors need to be taken into account on these issues. They are numerous, including political, social and historical aspects. In any case, however, I believe that our aim should not be simply to safeguard rights, but to integrate widerly, so that anyone who takes Greek citizenship does not feel foreign to this place. Greece needs brilliant minds, it needs workers' hands, young people with vision, scientists, women and men who will lead the country forward, without prejudice and without fear. This awareness, of course, has to do with our education, with the educational system, with the values and standards we give our children. Greek history shows that when our nation incorporated elements from other civilizations, it grew. Instead, in times when xenophobia, racism and introverticity prevailed, the results were tragic. That must be our conscience and much more of the new generations. A country's multiculturality is not weak, but exactly the opposite. It is power and comparative advantage, if, of course, it can be exploited. There are states that were built and magnified thanks to immigrants. In fact, in some of these states they sought a better fate and many Greeks. In order to achieve these objectives, the following must be done: there must be a legislative framework, which will, of course, ensure equal treatment of immigrants, combat discrimination and racism, ensure access for legal immigrants to the labour market, reduce bureaucracy, ensure access for legal immigrants to education. As many research has shown, as a basic obstacle to the integration of migrants, the lack of a desire on the part of migrants to integrate themselves into the limits of national ghettos created in conjunction with the lack of knowledge of the language of the host country, on the one hand, the lack of linguistic skills, cultural and religious differences, stereotypes, negative attitude and lack of understanding on the part of the native population, on the other. For this reason in the Potami, we believe that the emphasis on the conditions for the acquisition of citizenship should be on children themselves. The proposal of the draft law focuses on parental residence in advance of birth. However, for us the parent’s presence at the time of birth is more important and, of course, the ending of the school. The International Organisation for Migration, defining integration, attaches particular importance to the immigrant as a human and not a number, agreeing that integration requires a timely process, including all aspects of life, so that young people can be accepted by society, gain respect for their cultural values and feel that they belong to the new social group. These three démarches are a dubious process. That is to say, the effort of mutual recognition, understanding, acceptance and respect is made both in terms of the social group that receives people and in terms of immigrants or refugees. Experience also shows that granting citizenship does not imply integration. If we agree that immigrants are not a fascinating and temporary phenomenon, but are an organic part of the Greek society and history, we will have to draw up a comprehensive immigration policy plan. This means a vision for the future, for what kind of society we want to reconcile with immigrants, as well as a set of measures, decisions and laws common to other Europeans, but also adapted to national peculiarities, so that we can be realistic and humanist. The elements of a policy facing immigration not as a negative threat, but as a positive challenge, should be legalisation, social inclusion, Greek citizenship to the children of migrants under the conditions we have just said, effective border control and undeclared and uninsured labour and social and labour rights. The aim of these actions and policies is to get migrants out of a semi-legal status and constantly broaden citizens' status in a spirit of equality, creating a charter of rights for the immigrant whom everyone respects and observes. Let me close by noting the danger of racism as a result of wrong policies. Citizens need to realise that an immigrant did not wake up one morning and decided to enter our country illegally. The human tragedies and the stories of horrors that have experienced them force them to risk their own lives in order to escape and seek a better tomorrow and a better life. These are also young people who are trying to escape the desperate and often dangerous situation in their countries. It is all our responsibility to show that the Greeks, a people who know very well what refugee and immigration means, are not and never intend to be racist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to the House on 18-6-2015, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83 par. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as was the case, a criminal case formed following the 13-10-2014 report by Mr Nikolaos Kanakopoulou concerning former Prime Minister Antonio Samaras, former Deputy Prime Minister Evangelos Venizelos, former Minister of Justice Mr Charalambos Athanasios and the members of the former Ministerial Council, for the crime allegedly committed in the moral car industry in recent treason (Article 134) concerning the signing of a proposal to the President of the Republic on the adoption of legislative acts. There are also two requests made by Members for leave for absence by letters to the President of Parliament. ‘I shall inform you that, between 29 June and 16 July, I shall be absent abroad for family reasons and request permission, in accordance with Rule 76(3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure. Georgios Galeos, MP Argolidos.’ We also have a similar request for permission to the President of the Parliament from MP Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, MP Mr. II of Athens of Potami, for his absence in the period from 23 to 26 June 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u149	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Mrs. Canelles has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate at first glance enables one to broaden the political field under which one can analyse the reasoning of a bill. One would say that this bill, based on European policy, based on faith in European policy, the incorporation of directives and the implementation of directives, is not, in theory and in practice, against immigrants and wants to cure dramas and tragedies, mass or individual, which, from inertia, from irresponsible racism, are economically weak in times of crisis and wars, and we live every day, sparsely - is the truth - with very, very, very convenient and marketable melo. Our position has been explained by our fellow Members in both the committee and the debate in principle by our special speaker. I would like here to add one or two things with regard to general immigration policy. As much as the government wants, however far as the authors of this bill have tried, they cannot avoid dealing with the immigration issue skinally, conveniently, far away from the cause of immigration. In some places, while the directives left you room, you could have taken a step forward and taken steps backwards. At other points you have taken small steps forward, without this being an innovative action or, if you like, a proposal that is essential and different politically. How could it possibly be? They speak very easily: Patriotisms were heard a while ago by the golden ones. One said we're all patriots here, the other came back and said the left is against the country. These are common things in Greece and unfortunately merchandise carpets. But there is a very great truth: what Europe are we talking about? For a Europe which has consented to the bombing and dismantling of Yugoslavia, an excellence of multicultural society? Can someone tell me - and look between us here, when we talk about European policy - what nationality is there today, and what travel documents is going on? [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] Because, in order not to laugh at each other, a Kosovaros is moving with travel documents issued by NATO and the forces there. In other words, NATO is a state in which it provides travel documents of special nationality and special citizenship called Kosovo. And we've done this! It is the most characteristic example, because it is within European territory. It is not just the part of the common European foreign and defence policy that led Europeans and peoples to finance, to participate in exporting this misery of politics as a democracy, from Afghanistan to Darfur and from the Middle East to Friuli once. That's the big truth. In Europe, European policy is to produce immigrants. It produces refugees. But why is it producing them? Does it produce them with what fair? The law of blood? The law of birth? The law of education? The law of school? The law of graduation? No one will object to the facilitation and regularity of these issues. It is very little for anyone to stand up and say 'no, I will vote against', and he knows that in some cases he literally saves lives and situations. That's not the point. That is why we are also voting 'at present' at the outset. But let's get to the bottom of it. When a selective alternating migration is allowed and is made throughout its greatness, a bill is coming that typically preserves it. It is guaranteed not only because the employer will be facilitated - because he should go to IKA as a contributor and not to the OGA to come cheaper - and not just because the two months become one. It is guaranteed because there is the philosophy that I can introduce and export cheap labour hands, which compress the local workforce - as a whole in Europe - to have a permanently not only downgraded labour rights requirements, but also to lower the requirements of everyday life. That's why you have exceptions. In other words, you have exceptions at some point to the level of pleasure even of scholarships or of other things, precisely because citizenship is a pretext for humanitarian reasons - I do not personally render it to the government, I am talking about Europe, far away from me, the intent trial - but not on the substance. I'm bringing an example. If the employer is not in accordance with his obligations - insurance, taxation and wages - or violates the employment conventions, entry visas shall be withdrawn. Of course he's paying for the broken immigrant. Is the immigrant paying for the broken one? You take him, you hire him, you bring him, you pay him, and you leave him as a wretch? So, what's that different from the Greeks' work at the moment? Right now, it's a million who aren't paid, it's the youth workers of Neorio who are six months unpaid in 2015, it's the youth who is forced to work black, because there's no other way to survive, with 250 euros and 300 euros, from a develerator up to I don't know what else. We now come to this on the basis of immigration and we do so, at the level of labour relations, regularization, not just in favour of the employer. It's done with this device. Where is the European ambition of humanism all of a sudden? Res is done. The employer calls you, he doesn't pay you, he owes you wages, he doesn't make any contributions, you pay for the broken, immigrant, and I turn your exodus back. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What's that thing? That's the wrong philosophy. This is the European Union and our common European home, and at all costs the euro will remain, even if we, foreigners, now, are next and I do not know when they will be born here again. If we do not see these, the boats will go and come on the basis of the amount of black, vulgar, shameful, detestable capital that is invested in black labor. These are modern forms of slavery. This is the really disgraceful and unintentional one: to consent to a policy that grants bosses the right to move people, people, destroy infrastructure, bomb, export democracy, and then produce a workforce that can in necessity be found here, give birth to both children and the need for citizenship. This has also been done to explain to the committee, and here and everywhere, the JRC: to take precedence over the rights. But that requires quite a different policy. It cannot be the policy of Maastricht and Lisbon by definition liberal. How can you fix it? You gonna fix the marker? You're going to shine the tiles? It will never be charitable or socialist, much more communist. That's how he's gonna play. The child may be excellent, be here, have citizenship or residence permit, but slowly not get a scholarship. Don't you think it's in Greek, don't you think the studies can still be his choice? He won't get a scholarship. Don't give him room at the dorm. Under the pretext of the poverty crisis, growing and feeding the Nazi structures of all kinds and forms. In this philosophy, both Dublin I and Dublin II and Dublin III and Schengen and FRONTEX and this new form, in which the first time left and ANEL together had no objection, i.e. military formation to collect the drowned pirates of the Mediterranean from everywhere. In this sense, who will come to speak now of ideal humanity? Yeah, you can do everything you can for good here. If no one were afraid of immigrants, it would give them rights to vote in municipal elections. But there the res are also politically exploited, also willingly. Excellent attention to this policy because it gives birth to fascists. She is giving birth to my so-called nationalists and patriots like the Hungarians who have unilaterally suspended Dublin II. Today, Dublin II was unilaterally suspended. The Lord is the Community and the various others - but not for the reasons one imagines - so that one does not dare ask for a substantial abolition of Dublin II and for a substantial freedom of movement of people which have been forced and not taken away from the pain from coming here as clean, nice, high, white big funds to be invested. Why did not one immigrant call the Greek who goes to Germany to work at the hospital sixteen hours with 1600 euros supposedly paid, to return after six months with the experience and the gastarbiter plus others. It wants excellent attention when it comes to Europe and its principles. To explain at least what Europe we are talking about, what principles European principles are we talking about before we get to make a monetary invoice for morality, humanity, solidarity and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. I have the honour to inform you that plenary meets in this very important bill with the presence of the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Giannakis Homer, who is holding an official visit to our country, following my invitation and following the meeting with the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus. In interpreting the feelings of this House, I would like to welcome him, thank him for his presence, but also for his practical support and solidarity, which is a very strong sign of the unnegotiable solidarity between our countries and our peoples. I would also like to thank Mr Homer for all his contributions and statements, which unreservedly support those initiatives that have been taken by the Greek Parliament in defence of democracy, human rights and freedoms and popular sovereignty, including the right requests relating to auditing and revealing the truth about public debt. At the same time, I would like to inform you, given that this is the first plenary session of Parliament since last week in legislative work, that the preliminary findings were announced on 17 and 18 June 2015 and the preliminary report of the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt was tabled. The preliminary report has already been posted in its original English version on the website of the Parliament and will be available tomorrow in the English translation. I would also like to inform you that a request has been made by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to discuss this preliminary report in Parliament. The Conference of Presidents will deal with this request tomorrow. [[The above document, which contains the request of the fifty-fifth Members of the SYRIZA to discuss the preliminary report of the Committee on Truth, Public Debt, in Parliament, is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of Parliament.]] So we welcome Mr. Homer. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will now give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Nikos Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u152	Madam President, I would like to ask you a question on a point of order. This bill we are now debating at first, on the articles when will it enter? Because everything else knows when they're going in, but we don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u153	We'll talk about it later. Here, Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed very important today that we discuss such a bill. And that is because a few years ago, in the middle of the crisis - and while the crisis continues - the discussions that were taking place in this Chamber were on a completely different level. There was an ideological conflict over the law of blood or the law of space, birth, homeland, and at the same time this debate reached points - and it was not random, bruised, it was not possible to have this debate, it was then within the logic of the two extremes and the return of the post-mortem bisectual conflicts in our country - and they were on the surface at frequent times, which were embroiling and at the same time exacerbating such a debate. I would remind you of an amendment, which even had a wide range of signatures - if I am not mistaken, they had reached eighty-five - which required that they should not have the right for foreigners to enter the military schools in our country and to end and return to their homelands. Because it was a sign of humiliation and pride in the past decades when the swords and children from Africa, from other countries or continents, who came here. And yet the issue had come and there had been a very tough debate in the public area over these things for a week too. It is therefore an element of maturation, and it is a step forward that almost all the political parties in this House, in a society that is tested either in a way or in a multiple way and has its conservatives and other reflexes, there is this approach, this convergence on this crucial issue - which, of course, comes after many decades in our country - that is, on a very simple thing, that the people who were born here, in some ways, in some ways, and who are not immigrants - did not come from somewhere else, from their mother's belly in Greece - will have the Greek citizenship. I remember that when a childbirth of mine was born in Belgium in 1979, they automatically gave them citizenship, thirty - five - forty years ago. Then she preferred Greek citizenship, came, made the army. These were very simple things for a Europe before we even became a member of the European Union. And they come now, in 2015, and we're still talking about it. I would remind you of the public debate, the hard confrontation that had taken place for months for Chennai, the child who was from Albania, the signifier, who is now a teacher somewhere in Columbia, and whom all the nationalists, who today think our country is at risk, which has only 93% solid homogenised thing - so tight that I would say it is problematic - and they say there is a problem with multicultural perceptions. All of you remember the debate that took place on Chenai, about what happened in schools, about what happened to teachers, teachers, the political forces. We have not reached the crisis, therefore, only from the complications, scandals and from the quality of the debt, which you said, Madam President. We have also come from such phenomena, from a society that was bombed by such evidence. And I am proud that today's Prime Minister as the youngest President of our Party seven years ago - if I am not mistaken - had been accompanied to his first presence in the lounges of Maximos, when it became the anniversary for the restoration of democracy, by a girl who did not give citizenship, even though he was a graduate of the Greek high school. Through these paths, therefore, and by honouring every tradition of politics expressed here by the political parties, we have now reached a substantial convergence, not a match, and the debate that has taken place in the committees, but also here it will help to end the widest possible consensus. I would like to refer to a more general, very crucial issue, on the occasion of negotiations, the debate, the hard confrontation - not to mention it otherwise - which is now evolving with regard to the Greek issue in the European Union. It seems that some leading circles - always referring to the issues of today's bill, that is to say, I will not have the wider debate - what we call 'elite' on the neoliberal traditions and policies of today's European Union have lost all contact with reality, in relation to the major challenges ahead and around - around this fortress of the European Union. It doesn't explain any differently. You have already heard what was said in relation to the Hungarians by Mrs Canelli. That's just the way it was! The Minister, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, knows how regressively they are to behave on the major issue, which is to a minimum that all countries take a share of responsibility, with a policy which we have recommended for years, which has, at least, passed at the summit four months ago, and which Mr Avramopoulos, the 'committe' of migrants, recommended. They won't accept it! They want voluntary - it says - the countries of the North. Austria, Hungary, all right. He has this political leadership, and he has ideological reasons for doing what he does, apparently. But we are talking about the northern countries. They won't accept it. They want to become a dam: Italy, Malta, Greece and elsewhere. Humanguards. They are preparing military interventions for inflatable or inflatable, he says, for slave traders. Along with slave traders, there will be no warehouses left where there will be a couple of four hundred people with their babies. Three and a half thousand dead last year and the beginning of the year in the Mediterranean. Terrible problems! I have already heard the New Democracy rapporteurs say that with the bill what we are bringing, we are causing migration flows to our country. I mean, it's a crucifix. At the moment in Turkey, where two and a half countries are dismantling, and in Jordan there are three and a half million immigrants, eighty of whom are refugees, in refugee camps. And the Turkish leadership spends - so it says - 6.5 billion euros to care for these people or to go with their fingerprints - they have given us a certain manual about how they do the job - so they can get their foods, etc. And the European Union gave Turkey EUR 180 million a few months ago. If there is no strategy which at the same time, firstly, stops the interventions, wars, the divisions of countries, etc. - that is one at hand, because no one leaves from their home country, from Iraq, Syria, in this case, from the former Libya, to go somewhere else, if it is not unbearable - if, secondly, there is no real - financial and development aid for the neighbours directly or for the countries themselves, so that the world can stay there, hold on to it, what remains? Repression stays. That's what's left of it. That leaves it to be left, even if they refuse to do so. Because the provision, which was tabled a week ago, was - twenty-four plus seventeen thousand - for forty-one thousand refugees in two years from Greece and Italy, of which the other eight hundred, two thousand, another three thousand, as the beginning of another perception, would go to the places where they could work, find residence, etc. They won't accept it. They don't apply it. What's left? Equipment, wars, Europe - fortress, etc. It is a problem that comes from the future - we have said it a hundred times from this Step - it is not of the past. Fortunately, other political forces agree on how we approach these issues. It's not something that can be solved. This is not a solution to these policies and strategies. It can't be solved. It's clear. These problems are scary, above all for people themselves. I do not go into details of the business that we are dealing with every day, outside the publicity - and well they do - and inter-ministerial things are done, so that we face a problem that is at risk of being out of control on our islands, such as the northern Aegean. I can't say anything more and I don't say either. But now I tell you that it cannot be addressed with these strategies by the European Union. So, the same blindness that they show about the austerity strategy, about the strategy of declining and shrinking the social state, the public space - that is, all this conflict that has come to the surface on the face of the Greek issue and the hard confrontation that is taking place on the policies that will be followed, so that we can finally overcome the crisis with growth and with the benefit of workers - the same blindness of immigration as the whole of the issues that will be judged not only for the future, but also the architecture, the scope, the position of the European Union itself on the international round. Don't be fooled. Instead, they make a policy of "cuckoo" among them. They fight endlessly. Every day they raise us issues that are supposed to be solved or which bring back to the table. They have now gone into a situation which is not just below the moment of the historical situation, which we are all experiencing, but goes far behind, in medieval situations, in isolationism, in authoritarianism and in de facto and political folding, in political extremes and fascist phenomena, which in such a greenhouse, which matters do not open up and resolve on the basis of the principles of progress and the values of humanism, will resurrect such situations. This unacceptable situation must therefore be stopped. We are also giving this battle as a country and as a government on the basis of an agreement that we believe should have other features, characteristics of economic sustainability, political and progressive prospects, development logic and that brings with it another air across Europe. At the same time, however, a policy of open horizons for the whole of the European Union, for all countries, so that issues which we are now debating here very late, and which we are resolving legislatively - it is good that this step is being taken - can be elements of a permanent, new worthy load and a new relationship with the rest of the world of Europe, in a direction of philanthropic, the lifting of warfare and conflicts, deeply humanitarian in relation to addressing these issues. And surely - if you want - to put the case of solidarity with people regardless of colour, origin, religion to deal with real problems, which are now stammering and piercing the whole world. The step taken, the step taken by this House, by this government, will be a sign within our own society that in times of crisis, we must not retreat, we must not go through the horrendous strides, we must not be - and be - the whole society - hostage, appalling media constructions to overcome the crisis by itself, that is, by pressing on to each other. But, contrary to the logic of social automation, from labour and social issues to dealing with the issues of refugees and migrants to go through a common collective path towards progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We also thank Mr Homer for his presence and his support. [[Applause]] For the organization of the debate, I would like to propose to the House the following: we had announced that today's sitting would be concluded at 16.00 p.m. There are a lot of registered colleagues. And what I am proposing - asking the Vice-Presidents to assist, in order to make it easier for the Members - is to finish the debate at 19.00' instead of at 16.00'. I would like to inform you that sixty-nine Members are already registered and have spoken five times. The rapporteurs are also seven. So I suggest that the Members of Parliament should not be fully sampled, and because the time is already 14:30, we should extend the debate until 19:00, we should vote at first at 19:00. Tomorrow the Conference of Presidents will decide on the debate on the articles. I would remind you that we have two further meetings on the articles. As far as I am concerned, the Minister will be absent tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Brussels for the Immigration Summit. Do you therefore agree on this extension of the meeting in order to give the floor to more colleagues in principle and with the agreement that those from the list of speakers will not speak at first reading will be promoted and given the opportunity to speak on the articles which will be scheduled for the next week from the Conference of Presidents. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u156	Does he agree unanimously or is there any objection?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u157	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Athanasios, in what capacity? He was the only member of the New Democracy Parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u159	Our parliamentary representative is busy and I will make it up to him for at least a little bit. Madam President, the bill is very serious. I feel that the list of speakers today should be exhausted at the outset and those who speak today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u160	There is a chance that he will be exhausted. We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u161	...to limit them to articles after. But today it is right to get rid of the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u162	There's a chance that he's exhausted, although I don't see it very likely. You are, however, the eighteenth speaker, so you will speak today. So with the exception of Mr Athanasios, is there any other disagreement? Does the House agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u163	The House therefore agrees by a majority on this extension and on the vote on the bill at 7 p.m. Next speaker, who waited patiently, is Mr. Paul Haikalis from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone's wish is every bill that comes to this Parliament to create a moral imprint in society. We do not think today's bill expresses this moral imprint that should exist. Societies are completely ignored. It's written in the oldest of your shoes. And I ask, Minister: why now this bill? Was it necessary? In a fragmented country, in a country which is confused, divided, I can say, are you bringing a bill to Hellenize immigrants and create citizenship, make foreign Greek citizens? Is that the country's interest? And if that is the case, I would like to remind you that you are ignoring something else, that the primary problem in this country is demographic. Why didn't you bring a bill to solve the demographics? Why didn't you bring a bill to support laundry, which we know is how much need it and should be the concern of this government, so that we can actually move forward and create such issues? Because I heard you talk about citizenship, I would like to remind you that in this Chamber one night of 1982 the Greek language suffered a heavy defeat as part of our culture. Don't look at me, Mr. Kutsuko. Unfortunately, then it became a heavy defeat. The word citizenship comes from the words ‘species’ and ‘gene’. I say it because tymology has forgotten. Horses and genus, then. It's straight from the genus. It marks the blood. So we cannot overlook the nationality of the Greek. We cannot overlook the law of citizenship, the law of blood, no matter what we do. As far as the word citizenship is concerned, they are quite different concepts. The word comes from'sub' and 'hearing'. It is based on monarchy, and from there it has taken its bad features, that it is a submission, but today it finds a basis for obedience to a Constitution and to the laws of a state. So we have to see her on this side too. And most importantly, what we have to see in the two concepts is that it's another thing about citizenship and other citizenship, whether we like it or we don't like it. You will say to me: but now, you know, the European Union, European regulations and European legislation, etc. How I am interested in European legislation! If we are to adopt something that is in line with European legislation and European directives, we should close this Parliament and go on to implement European legislation, if that is what we believe, if that is the case. But is it also a European order to solve the country's demographic problem by making Greeks all foreigners? This has been heard by Mrs Diamantopoulou ever and has been implemented by Mr Ragosi, who has actually implemented such a policy. The Independent Greeks set basic conditions that the foreigner who wants to become a Greek citizen must meet. In our view, he must be an adult at the time of submission of the statement of naturalisation. Not to have been convicted last decade before the application for naturalisation is lodged, not to be pending at the expense of the deportation decision or any other lack of legal residence status in the country, to renounce his previous nationality - he cannot have two - three nationalitys, many citizenships, yes, but a citizenship - to pursue a declared and legitimate professional activity that gives him the opportunity of financial self-sufficiency and maintenance both of his family and of his family, and not to have outstanding debts in the state. Not to have received any kind of social assistance or benefit for the preceding three years and during the last five years before the application. To know the Greek language, Greek history and culture adequately. To have become a witness, that is, to be able to fulfil the obligations arising from the status of the Greek citizen. In accordance with Articles 1(2) and (3), by Article 16(2), by Article 21(1), by Article 25(4), by Article 51(2), by Article 108 and Article 120 of the Constitution, the following shall be inserted: The main national pillars of guidance any plans to amend citizenship law are two. Firstly, the continuity of the nation throughout the centuries, while cultivating the national conscience and, secondly, the maintenance of the social cohesion of our nation while preserving the basic institution of the family, which is the foundation stone of our nation and our society, which is a society of Greeks with national conscience and respect for human rights and not a simple civil society. Therefore, the main concern of the constitutional legislature, with absolute respect for the concept of the nation, is to ensure and safeguard the national homogeneity of the State by establishing nationality law. Apart from this, the European Union wants to abolish it, because it cannot impose the cultural union, in order to make a real union in Europe, it is trying, through the impairment of cultural elements, to create such a union where the chosen ones will keep the law of their blood - their nationality, their autonomy - and the rest will be a simple civil society. As far as foreigners are concerned, I would like to say that the disastrous results of the accumulation of foreigners are many. It is the lack of control of the circulating foreigners in our country, the lack of hygiene conditions in the urban centres, the transmission to the Greek population of diseases that had been once fought and were nonexistent, the rapid increase in crime by using physical force, the lack, the inability to provide adequate protection for our national borders, the increase in the unemployment of Greeks, while occupying jobs by foreign workers, the reckless and nationally dangerous introduction of foreigners into the Security Body and the Armed Forces, with the abolition of the condition of the Greek genus. We have seen today’s random photographs of Greek soldiers photographed with the flag of Albania. And I ask you: They are tomorrow in a potential conflict, which can happen - and we are all absent - what will they do? Will they be on the side of the country or will they function as a Trojan horse in that country? In the end, the most important is the lack of social cohesion, due to the presence in the political and social life of the country of foreigners, who have nothing to do with Greek culture, national ideals, European principles and values. At the same time, Greece has signed the Dublin II Treaty, without reservation, and it should ask for compulsory quota fixing for foreigners in our country in the context of respect for the principle of proportionality in relation to our national population. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Minister, you are not here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u165	There are two of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u166	I'm sorry. I would like to tell you that the Independent Greeks are not racist. I have expressed my opinion and said that I never wish God would demand a man not to seek his fate, food, shelter and love in a foreign country. That's our place. From there on, however, we must say that we are very interested in cultivating national consciousness and national cohesion. And that's the big thing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Because the Minister said that they will soon be Greeks, I would like to say that you are not Greek, you are born. And if anyone wants to be Greek, there should be high standards requirements. And that should have been the case. But unfortunately, I don't see that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u167	On the basis of our earlier colleagues, I would ask Mr Gregorakos to come. Until Leonidas arrives, I would like to ask you to allow me to intervene, Mr Giannis Balafas, because we do not have the opportunity to speak according to the list. Depends on when we'll be in the Chair and when we don't. Immediately afterwards, it will be Mr. Ilias Kamaeros, Mrs. Iglezis and Mr. Dimitris Kyriazides. Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I feel happy, because every time you are here, as a colleague, you always have a "joint" with me and you are always noble. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, today is a very difficult day, a day that probably brings down. I would therefore like to say that the extraordinary call by the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, in Brussels is not a good sign, and that is because the country is still in uncharted waters. The Mediterranean accepts so many immigrants and in recent years the grave of innocent people, who have been pressured by despair and desperation, have drowned at the borders of a Europe which is also seeking to find itself with its difficulties and is trying to find its steps for solidarity with the peoples - its own and others - and another social and political approach to its problems. But we have been following a policy in the last five months, which is unprecedented. "First time left," but a moment ago I saw your partner curdling around others. In this bill, that is, there is no governmental majority and there is a declarant issue. As I have heard here today, no party has so far expressed its support for the bill. So, Minister, when none of the parties - and co-government and others of the opposition - are in favour of the bill, are you insisting on this bill? Mr. Voutsi, I will tell you what has happened to the "Empirical" government of New Democracy, PASOK and DIMAR. When there was no agreement, Mr Voutsi, between the three partners and then between the two partners, there was never a bill coming to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u169	That's how it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u170	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u171	That means political dignity. But that also means, Mr. Voutsi, that you are likely to play very hard on the card of staying in power. You're responsible, because we've reached only five, and there's no deal. You have unnecessaryly spent the advantage of your rise in power, which my party has never called into question, i.e. that you will be the party of the next election, no matter what. If I remember well from the briefing of our President Evangelos Venizelos, he had discussed with the Chief of Official Representation to elect the President of the Republic, to get out of the memorandum and to go to elections. But you fell and made the same mistake as George Papandreou did in 2009, when he forced Karamanlis to go to elections for the President of the Republic and to take the authority. He took it and instead of getting power, he took a hot potato in his hands. We went to manage it, but hot potatoes and iron when they're hot, they don't manage easily. You're making mistakes. In fact, you're going to make mistakes when you're going to manage such situations. No one's ever won a winner. We made our own mistakes because of weakness at the time of our party's leading team and so now that you make the same mistakes. Five months later you came with various bills that you probably cover your client's relationships and with the elections to be held every moment in the Greek state, not in the opposition parties. Because when we go to elections, which are likely to be quick to vote, it will be Greece and the people. No one else will lose. Greece will lose. Your government and political officials now and now, while we know what you have testified, we have them and you still have them in the channels, or even here from the Step forward of the House, act like they're still in the Opposition. They're commentators and spectators of events. They do not know that probably in two days' time they will be invited here to take a position on the following: To increase VAT contributions by EUR 680,000, for 2016, EUR 1.3 billion. And you and us and the whole world know that VAT is a horizontal and unfair tax, and that the increase in VAT means a corresponding reduction in the incomes of citizens, while we, by email Hardouvelis, said that we would not reduce the pensions and wages of workers. Increase in insurance contributions by 3.9%. What does that mean? Increase in employers' contributions by 2.9% and increase in employee contributions by 1%. Isn't that a reduction in workers' income? Of course the employers will pay more than 400,000,000 euros. So tombstones for workers and pensioners, but also tombstones in the private sector. That's what you'll be calling to vote on this weekend. You'll vote for it! You'll vote for it! I do not promote you, but I have lived in this Chamber so bitter times and inhumane times that I do not want you to live. I want the deal to pass, as you bring it, a bad deal, and I don't really want you to feel the way you made us feel then. And I don't want to see why we won't allow anyone, yogurt, oranges and lemons. Maintaining the ENPIA, this terrible law, e-mail Hardouvelis, EUR 900,000,000 and EUR 8,1 billion. The first memorandum had 80% increase in taxation and 20% reduction in expenditure. Watch out. This proposal by the government has 97% tax increase and 3% reduction in expenditure. Listen to some truths. The government brings this out and the executives get out on television, and this morning I was on TV and said my colleague from SYRIZA that we're reducing the primary surplus of 2.5% respectively'. What's the truth here? The decline in surplus resulted in a decline in growth. Since growth is 0 and this bill you bring is a bill, which is frankly just a recession. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The Government argues that it has reduced the contribution of solidarity to two levels. But since we did this to the previous government. The government says he saved wages and pensions. Who? Since with this VAT it brings and with all these measures it takes, wages and pensions reduces. The government argues that it has not cut wages and pensions again. The increase in insurance contributions and solidarity contributions has been reducing pensions lately, the notorious 'the zero deficit clause'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Comrade, make it easy on me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u173	I'm making it easier for you, Mr. President. Forty minutes the Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u174	Okay. But you, because you've done up here, know the poorness of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u175	Forty minutes! And are you now making a point to me, Mr President? Talk 20, say okay, put me down. But I happened to be here. Forty-two minutes! I'm done. This bill was a bill, which was brought by PASOK with full consciousness and without political terminology and never retreated on matters of political, moral and legal support. We are here, then, to say that yes, this bill is our bill and that with New Democracy, when we were together in the government, we have come to a break and confrontation many times, we have set up a special committee under Mr Athanasios, and we have reached a very good point, so that we can bring the bill to a vote. So today you are bringing this bill and you are asking for a parallel and despite the political context that the opposition will vote on your bill when you cannot find it with your co-pilots. I shall therefore raise a point of order. If there is no statement, this bill does not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I would like for a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u177	What are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u178	I would like a minute's reason for Mr Gregorakos' statement to announce something on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u179	Here, Mr President, you have the floor for a minute, although I do not understand what the matter is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, since this bill, and in particular Article 1 and Article 10, which deal with the substance of the opposition dispute, have passed through the committee of Parliament by a majority of SYRIZA and PASOK - because all the other parties voted against - and since, now, Mr Gregorakos raises a question of the bill, regardless of the "yes" position of PASOK, if I understand it correctly, as regards the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u182	PASOK says "yes" in terms of the bill, but it says that it cannot pass by the votes of the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u183	It's a political decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u184	They should, if they want, vote for it by your partners. However, your partners - I was listening to Mr Haikalis - who approximately accused you of being accused. Not only do they vote against it, but you have been accused and degraded. So, Mr President, we are announcing that we are now going to consult on what point of the procedure will be the subject of a roll-call vote. We have a new political given: either it will pass by the votes SYRIZA - ANEL or it will not pass. In order for us all to be measured and informed and not to hide Mr. Kammenos behind other parties, Mr. Damovitis. Because Mr Kammenos here in the previous composition, Minister, has himself and his MPs tabled a proposal for a law on the total abolition of the Ragosia Act. So if SYRIZA wants his partner, Mr. Kammenos, to pass the bill, he has good. If they do not want to pass it, the bill will simply not pass through the House and, therefore, Mr Gregorakos is right to raise a matter that is stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u185	The Minister has asked for the floor, obviously to answer Mr Gregorako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u186	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u187	Warm request. You heard we'd go by seven. The Parliamentary Representatives have not spoken. If such interventions begin, I beg your pardon, but also consider the colleagues who are waiting to speak. That's the one. Mr Georgiadis, the vote, since the New Democracy wants to make a denomination, is self-evident that it has the right to do so. The result will be achieved and there is no question as to the principle of the bill. The next thing you know, it's a different story. But to vote on the bill, there is no such matter. Unless the government raises a matter of confidence. But I think we'll hear that from Mr. Voutsi. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u188	Yeah, yeah. Mr President, as an oldest and very experienced person you have already given the interpretation in accordance with the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, etc. There are no limited parties among us and no kurt parties. In this sense, it is clear that the procedure has been completed in committees by ordinary vote, transparent on the issues. And based on the majority that formed, the objections, he expected it, etc. The other parties came to the House. So, if there is a matter of roll-call vote, you should put it on your side. There is no question of a majority not going through this bill and, as I believe, a comfortable bill. Therefore, everyone takes responsibility. If the PASOK wants to retreat with any reason - I am not saying a pretext - let it testify, since it is public debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u189	That's not retreat.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u190	Otherwise, it makes no sense to talk about 'declared' in such a way. In any case, the effort is being made on the substance of the matter. I spoke of a wide-ranging convergence that can be achieved. You have also listened to the rapporteur in relation to the articles and the possibility of separating the two articles etc. Or anything else, which we will discuss when we get to the articles. However, the government cannot be a hostage of regular parties. And I am not now, of course, talking about the relationship with the Independent Greeks. You are well aware, Mr Gregorako, that today's SYRIZA-ANEL conflict is not based on a programmed documentary documentary of a common programming platform, which you remember for months had made a hard attempt to shape. So in the context of that agreement, in fact, while you had a bill, you did the procedure you said, until you reached a compromise with Mr Athanasios. We have no such agreement or understanding, and for now we are doing very well and we are honouring it very much - I really say it - and the Greeks who are cooperating with the Independent. In every bill we form our majority and our convergence, so that the House proceeds according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Gregorakos, after I saw that you agreed with what we were saying. You have the floor for a minute and the conversation is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, things are not easy. It's a major political issue. If we get over it, we're fine! We said that this bill was supported by us ideologically, politically, socially, morally in 2010 and we consider it to be part of ourselves. So we support this bill because we believe it is ours. That is why we voted in principle. However, it is not possible for SYRIZA to build this government, which does not support it - there is no government cohesion - to rely on the votes of parties with which it has no one, no one - frankly - relationship with the government. In other words, this government cannot pass bills with our votes. That's not honest, it's not moral, it's not political. Legislation can be passed by all the wings of the House, but they cannot pass bills with paramount partnerships. So this partnership between SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks is not normal for us. We and DIMAR at least took care of the bills that we brought in, if there were objections, not to bring them in. So that is what we want to say to the government: that these great 'true'sans will have us trapped to pass their bills and play their customers' games, and we will not allow them! We say 'yes' to the bill, 'no' to the declared one. If he's declared, he passes the bill. We call 'yes' in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Gregoraco, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u195	A moment ago, the MEP of Annells, Mr Haikalis, said he was not voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Gregoraco, please! I have answered what the Rules of Procedure provide for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u197	There's no bills declared. There's a declarant of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u198	Minister, I didn't give you the floor! This is not a Ministerial Council. I replied from the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Mr Gregorakos said his party's political view, you, the government's political view, the New Democracy will propose a nominal one, and that's where we'll see how things are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, Mr Damavonite is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u201	You don't have the floor, Mr. Damabilit. You're not even a parliamentary representative. Mr Balafa, please come to the Step. And in order not to blame the new colleague, after Mr Balafas, I will give you, Mr Damavites, the floor for a minute, so that I don't feel bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u202	Obviously, I will not be tempted to talk about the general issues, not because I could not, but because we are talking today. In addition, there will soon be a debate in the House on the general issues, hoping and seeking and striving for this debate to be held on an existing and mutually beneficial agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from text, I would just like to make two remarks on what has been heard. From that point of view, I shall refer to issues relating to my own views. My first out-of- text is in terms of the opinion that at some point, speaking of Greeks, we are talking about Orthodox ones alone. So - let the others - the Catholic Greeks, the Jewish Greeks, the Protestant Greeks are reduced national status or national trust?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u203	To your partners...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u204	No, it was said what I told you about it. Shame on you! Because we know how these compatriots stood, these Greeks at other critical national times, when some supported national trends at all, but partnerships with the conquerors at that time. The second thing I'll tell you is this and it's out of text again: The ancient Greeks, to whom many of you are constantly referring, said that they were the Greeks who learned. Is it or isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u205	That's what we say, we find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u206	That's right. So these things about blood or about "you are born Greek, you are not being Greek" and others are very outside Greek culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u207	Another thing, another one, don't confuse it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to refer to what I have been prepared to say. I feel today that I am fulfilling a duty, a duty, to my conscience, but also to all familiar people, a duty toward the strangers, to the famous Yiannis Andetonkubo, and to the unknown little student who I saw in the recent student parade in Athens to proudly hold the Greek flag, a duty to Kadja Sanco, who came from Sierra Leone, Odysseus Tsenai - remember him, I assume - who came from Albania and tens of thousands of young people and young people who may have been born in every corner of the earth, but who have not met another country, have come to a very young age in our country. With my positive vote in the citizenship bill, I ask for a great apologies to Albanian journalist Nikos Ago, who was forced to emigrate to Sweden, although for many years he was a worker and a family leader in Greece. His two daughters, twenty-one and twenty-two years old, were born here, but they're still on leave to stay in a country in which they never migrated. At the same time, I am proud that this country is inhabited by citizens like Sergeant Antonis Deligi, who, at the risk of his life, saved dozens of shipwrecked refugees on Rhodes beach. I am proud that they are few and literally small - how else can I describe them - those who characterize our human waste people and say to throw them into the sea. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us who believe - and I think there are many in this Chamber who believe it - in the code of values, as was formed after the great French Revolution, whose messages have coloured our own liberation struggle, we defend freedom, diversity, brotherhood, solidarity, human rights, and especially the right to life and homeland. The children of those who have arrived in our country requesting a better tomorrow have rights that are accepted in the single Europe. We cannot defend economic Europe and ignore the Europe of humanism. Apart from the moral side, beyond the ideological side, there is a realistic approach. We live in a country that, unfortunately, grows old. Inheritance is a characteristic of almost all Western societies. In Greece much more we have youth migration. Of course, here to make it clear once again and to hear that the children born in our country are not immigrants, they have not met another country, they are native. We have an obligation to incorporate them socially and economically, always on an equal footing, with the same obligations, with the same rights, with benefits for themselves, but also for the Greek economy and society. These children can and are entitled to be equal citizens, who will also improve the country's age pyramid, will meet production needs, especially in the province, which has unfortunately been abandoned for many years. A glance at the composition of schools, primary, high school, high school, will convince us of the urgency of this matter. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the award of citizenship is neither a charity nor a privilege. It is, in my opinion, a right for children born and raised in Greece, going to school here, shaping their personality and conscience as members of our society. And we know how consciousness is shaped in the tender first years of age - whoever doesn't know about it, let me speak with psychologists and other scientists - regardless of their parents' origin. The Legislation on citizenship meets the feeling of a large majority of citizens, but it also guarantees the conditions of social cohesion and integration. Estimates refer to about one hundred and fifty thousand minors or young people born, raised and shaped their conscience in Greece. It is perfectly understandable that the strict exclusions set by the previous law on the acquisition of Greek citizenship led with mathematical accuracy in a society with fragile social cohesion. With the policy characterised by this bill, there will also be benefits of parallelity. Maybe that's why it's been such a big war of the bill. There will be no fertile territory for racist, nazi or reflective purposes of any kind of religious fanaticism like jihadists and all these enemies of culture and democracy. [[This is where the end of the speaking time of Mr B. Vice-President hits the end of the bell.]] The anachronistic concept of blood law, according to which the people of a country are right to be made up of people of the same ethnicity, apart from the impossible of the matter, is an extreme ideological rhetoric. With this bill, our country is in line with European standards of citizenship, where clear and dominant positions take the law of the territory. Ladies and gentlemen, by modifying the provisions of the Code of Nationality, we are making a great intersection, a great leap from yesterday to today. We know well that the future belongs to societies that are pluralist, especially to societies that are harmonious, cooperative, solidarity and fair, as has been said a few days ago by a colleague. This is what we want, and in this direction I think the specific draft law that we are discussing today is being drafted. That is why I think it would be self-evident at least to vote by a wider majority, regardless of the reservations that may exist in some articles. For my part, it goes without saying that I support this bill with all my powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u209	As I promised, I will give the floor to Mr Damabiti for a minute, which, although a new colleague, I am sure he will be disciplined in time. Here you go, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. To answer Mr. Adonai that Mr. Kammenos is not hiding. It is expressed through our rapporteur, who himself expresses the position of our movement. Let me remind you that our movement is the way to express a portion of citizens who are faithfully doing what they have been commanded for. If Mr Gregorakos has a concern about the principle of declared, he can easily raise the matter. He may not vote for the bill - after being tempted - and bring the matter under the constitution before us. But from the moment that he cannot avoid this temptation and wants to vote, he must obey what the Constitution dictates.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u211	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. As I said before, there are three colleagues now, Mr Kamatos, Mrs Inglezis, from SYRIZA and Mr Kyriazides. Until Mr Kamaeros comes to Stepma, I would like to propose to the Parliamentary Representatives, so that you do not all fall on blocs. Once Mr Kyriazidis has finished speaking to two parliamentary representatives, to follow a group of four, five Members, then two other parliamentary representatives, and not to let all the Members of Parliament have a package and eat me all year round and not to speak to me. So after Mr. Kyriazidis, Mr. Koutsoukos speaks. If I understand correctly, Mr. Kutsuko, would you like to intervene? Is that right? Do you accept that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u212	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u213	You're making it easier for me. Mr Pappas has asked for the floor, and then another three colleagues speak. Mrs. Gerovali, I see she wants to know the others. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President, and in particular for dealing with the issue, where you are also able to speak to Members. Colleagues and colleagues, this morning again, six Syrians were drowned off Kos, when a ship was overthrown. Why am I saying it? Because it's the multiplier that's been done, and I'm saying it's for those who claim we have to get rid of them, for those who don't care about seeing wet moms come out of the sea and have no place to go. I say it for those who see mothers holding their babies and not having milk to give them and they don't care. I'm talking about those who don't care when they see the mother drowning at the last minute, when she's drowning, giving her baby to the next girl to save it. They live on our island for twenty-five days, island refugees and immigrants, without electricity, without water, in the cold, in the rain, in the port, at risk of dying, even if they escape the sea. And that's why? Because there are some smart people - let me say this expression - who think that if we don't care for them, if we let them drown, then we won't get any others on the other side and go somewhere else. Maybe then, if we're already choking them, the other people will find out, and they won't come to us, go elsewhere! Maybe that's a solution too, as if the ruthless human life dealers care about where they're gonna be sent or drowned. In fact, they think they also take care of tourism on our islands. Stupids do not understand that this is how they defame our land, showing inhumanity and allowing the troubled to seek refuge. Where's the Greek hospitality? Where's humanity? Of course, it is a terrible hypocrisy to teach officials and to ask staff to smile at tourists to show Greek hospitality. Local authorities which do not cooperate for the first reception of immigrants and refugees and much more when targeting any citizens are activated. Because we have such phenomena too. You will have read and heard that those who took from the road with their cars are being persecuted in Mytilini to transport them. It is therefore a great responsibility for the local authorities that do not cooperate, because they do not understand that we are in an emergency and that we all have responsibility. But does the government also have responsibility? I have no problem telling you that to some extent it does. I follow closely all the efforts of the ministers, particularly the Minister for Migration Policy, who is trying to coordinate the irreconcilables. I don't know how much services they're in charge of this. I don't know how he can do it without a franc, let me look. I don't know how he can do it without authority. We must say here that the government must show greater courage and determination. We have an emergency. I don't mind the excuses I hear from the ministers from the various ministries. It doesn't suit me to be told they can't hire to go police to the islands. I don't mind hearing we don't have any money for feeding. I don't mind hearing we don't have money for the transport of police officers who voluntarily want to go to the islands. I would like the Minister to be able to get a platoon of MAT - instead of guarding from the House - and go down to help. We have an emergency. If there was an earthquake, what would we do? We are bound by the various agreements and the whole mechanism, which has been created and we must move within these frameworks, which we have been given, by the fact that we cannot recruit, as I have said before, and we do not have money, up to all the bureaucratic procedures, so-called identification, etc. You will know, of course, that we have to take fingerprints from everyone so that when they go to Europe and get caught there, they can be returned to us on the basis of the fingerprints, because we have signed that we will be the border guards and the prison guards they want to create. Because they want our countries. And the Minister said so very well. Efforts are being made, but it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, because it wants determination and courage in other matters too. It may not be directly related to the bill we are discussing, but I wanted to raise this problem, and that is why I say it: the example of health. I am not at ease - as I said before - on immigrants and on health issues in the small islands. We were on three islands this weekend. I don't understand why we can't hire doctors and we can't afford the hospitals. I cannot understand why for six months we cannot find a way to help these abandoned people on the islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall finish, but you have only put me five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u215	Mr Colleague, you are very pleased because I had forgotten to put time and put it on the table. Nevertheless, you will have a minute to complete. Don't worry. I'm not wrong with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u216	No, I'm done. I'll respect it. I shall end with the following point: we know of the plans to overthrow the government and the foreigners and the locals. These plans involve many of the local authorities and use issues, as I have said before, migrants and deliberately do not help to solve them so that they can turn them against the government. The same is done by various bodies and, of course, by the media that have as their sole goal the destruction of our government, without computing the cost for the country. They do the same, as with immigration, and make use of everyday problems, and they falsely say that these are now being created with the current government, while implementing laws of the previous period: beaches, bars, shop functions, tax issues, etc. In all this, ladies and gentlemen, we have only one support, but it is decisive. Our support is to support the people who have so far given them their lost pride. These hours that we are discussing this legislation on citizenship - which we should have had these issues solved many decades ago, and we should have discussed immigration, which I raised before, because it will be the problem of the coming years across Europe and we will be 'till us', if we do not find solutions - our government is fighting for this dignity of our people. I wish, Mr President, that we have such a development that we do not betray the pride of our people, because our people can still take the measures - it can take so many years and some other measures - but it will not last for us to take the pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u217	Let Mrs. Iglezi come to Step. After Mr Kyriazides, the first duo of parliamentary representatives will be Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Pappas. Three colleagues will follow and then Mrs Gerovas, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Pafilis, perhaps. Five other colleagues will follow and the Members will be closed - I do not mean at 19.00, they will speak - with Mr Karcsoulis from Potami and Mr Kokkalis from the ANELs. I say this so that the parliamentary representatives will also be able to plan them. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, with the current draft law on the Code of Nationality, there is an important and consistent problem in our country regarding the smooth integration and integration of migrant children into the Greek society. It is a problem that, as a citizen and as a mother, touches me deeply. Ladies and gentlemen, Immigrant children are my daughter's best friends. They speak as well as my daughter. They know Greek history as well. They dance Greek traditional dances and sing Greek traditional songs. We can therefore speak clearly about the lifting of the continuing injustice against these children so far, since these children are either born and raised or found at a very early age in Greece, they receive the Greek education, but at the same time, unfortunately, they lack the basic rights and obligations arising from the acquisition of citizenship. This is a problematic situation which all democratic and favoured states must face, thereby avoiding marginalisation, but also racism in particularly sensitive childhood and adolescent ages. With the provisions of this bill, the Greek state ceases to blind the existence of a large group of young people who, while forming a Greek national identity, develop their personality and interpersonal relations in the context of Greek society, are not entitled until now to be recognised as equal members. It is important to stress that, with these provisions, Greece is finally moving forward and leaving behind the lag behind in relation to the rest of Europe on the flammable issue of immigration policies and access to citizenship. This is done in a rational and balanced way, taking into account both the formal criteria of integration, such as legality and permanentity, and the essentials in the form of a desire to participate in the Greek education system. This gives a solution that is capable of withstanding time and is in line with the requirements of the Greek Constitution. The Greek Government chooses not to put such an important issue on social cohesion in the future and aims to overcome the inflexibility, but also the precariousness that has created the current legal framework. Phenomena of selective treatment of new second generation immigrants for the purpose of international promotion of the country, for example in the sport sector, as observed in previous years, must be eliminated. The proposed legal framework ensures fair treatment and respect for human rights. It also puts an end to the paradox expectation of citizenship from these children to adulthood, when first generation immigrants are rightly entitled to this right in much less than eighteen years' time. Now in the second part of the bill, it is unnecessary to stress the necessity of the proposed provisions, since the transposition into national law of the two directives of the European Parliament and of the Council is an obligation for our country. In particular, with regard to Directive 2011/98 of the European Union, the further delay in transposing the proposed arrangements could not be a rational choice, since the deadline has already elapsed. This legislative initiative harmonises the policy pursued in Greece with the other European countries, both with regard to residence and work permits for citizens of third countries and with the procedures to be followed when the applications are submitted. The advantages are, of course, many and related, both to the reduction of bureaucracy through less complex and more rapid procedures and to the safeguarding of the principles of the rule of law. At the same time, adopting the principle of equal treatment of citizens of third countries is perhaps one of the most important provisions of this bill on the status of immigrants in our country. Basic rights, such as the existence of a working age threshold, access to a safe working environment, working hours and fair remuneration, rights acquired in hard struggles, cannot and must not be restricted or discriminated against by citizens of third countries. At the same time, this draft law lays down rules and procedures, but also ensures the existence of specific rights for seasonal workers in our country, citizens of third countries, incorporating the European Union directive into Greek law. The benefits of this institution are again multiple. I merely mention the possibility of reducing irregular work, but also of reducing the risk of exploiting vulnerable groups. Finally, the changes promoted in the Migration Code, by rationalising, for example, the provisions on family reunification, but also by providing for the granting of a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, make the draft law being passed comprehensive, modern and capable of meeting the needs of society and the circumstances of the times. I would like to refer to the recommendation of the "Public Energy Investment Corporation S.A." which is obviously intended to contribute to the development of our country in an energy hub in Southeast Europe while at the same time ensuring and promoting the public interest. With regard to the objective, it should be stressed that, despite the continued declarations of previous years, no government has shown the required commitment so that Greece can upgrade its quality in the energy map of Europe, even though it is known that large energy investments, such as pipeline construction, contribute in a variety of ways to the development of a country, offering among others jobs, know-how and public revenues. This important work should be undertaken by the current public undertaking with care to respect the environment and better use of opportunities for the benefit of Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, some are gathered outside the House, with the main slogan 'Move Europe'. But within this Chamber they are against all these basic principles of European Enlightenment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Europe, gentlemen, it is not just monetary union. Europe is also human rights acquired. So if you are as European, as you claim, you who are breaking your clothes for the country's stay in Europe, this is a glorious field to support the acquis communautaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u219	Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides, Member of the Council of the New Democracy, has the floor. Mrs Karamanlis has asked to be deleted because of an exceptional obstacle. After Mr Kyriazides, as I said, Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Pappas will follow and then a group of four colleagues, namely Mr Charakopoulos, Mr Karanastassis, Mr Karagianidis and Mr Athanasios mutually. Then the parliamentary representatives, the second group, will follow. Here, Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing today a key bill, which is of course inextricably linked to immigration, with this migratory problem that is stumbling up, tortured and at risk of smuggling the country, as Mr Cameroon said. I should like to refer to that. Of course, precisely because it is such an important issue for immigration, the New Democracy on Friday with a timely question discusses this issue, so that we can also see from the government and the concurrent party, specific positions, because there is an influential influx in the country and an increase in crime. It's evidence that should torture us. Of course we should all answer a question - at least to ourselves, if not in public - on an issue that I raised during the debate on the bill in committee: how many can that country stand and how can it stand, so that it does not fall apart, as Mr Kameros has said? How many? It is a question that needs to be answered in order to ensure that the people we represent and those who enter the country live under human conditions. We have to respond, because the boat lifts a certain weight. If we overload her, then it'll go vast. This is where we need a specific position. All countries have done so, of course in their own way. Minister, under the proposed arrangements of the draft law on the acquisition of Greek citizenship by foreign children, when providing for the mere fact of such a school in Class I of the primary school and provided that it continues to be monitored at the time of submission of the application, without even ensuring the minimum age at the time of the child's attendance, the constitutional order is violated in a challenging, direct and immediate manner. At the same time, you are not causing, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with these imperfect and problematic provisions, common experience and logic and the average Greek. At the same time, you are threatening both the substance and the homogeneity of the nation and of the country. The completely problematic so-called modernist and, above all, unconstitutional nature of the provisions you already know. It is extremely problematic, apart from any personal positions and perceptions, for the simple reason that the proposed provisions run counter to a number of constitutional, historical and legal assumptions, as the Supreme Court has already thought. This is because it is not possible to provide Greek citizenship as a gift from the state without the existence of a genuine bond - it was stressed by everyone here - the alien to the Greek state and the Greek society, which are not organisations of invertebrates and creations on the day, but are a time-consuming unity with a certain cultural background, a community with constant customs and common language, with a long tradition. These are elements that are transferred from generation to generation with the help of smaller social units, namely family, and organised state units, education. As the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State points out: 'If the condition of the essential bond was ignored and the legislator - changing in power at the fundamental principle of the democratic culture of change of governments - could ignore him and minimise his qualifications for the acquisition of nationality, then he could also arbitrarily define the composition of the people by adding an undetermined number of persons of various origin, with loose or non-existent integration. With the proposed regulation, unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - and I sincerely regret the ANEL - introduces an arbitrary and legally unfounded criterion, that of registration in the first grade and continued school, and that is obviously not possible as from the age of the foreigner to the Greek society, that is to say, its incorporation into the concept that I mentioned in the above-mentioned concept. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And I'm explaining: If the juvenile's enrolling and studying in Class I, can he apply directly? If it doesn't finish school, what's going on? Does it prove by itself that this birth and study in Greece exists, that knowledge of our language, history and so on? These are indeed voids, which prove not only the sluggishness of the provisions, but also an unprecedented absurdity. In view of the caselaw of the Council of State, according to which the provisions of Article 1 of the N. 3838/2010, of the Ragosi Act, defined among other things that "The child of foreigners born and continuing to live in Greece from parents residing permanently and legally, both in the country for at least five consecutive years, is acquired by the birth of Greek citizenship or since this has successfully completed the follow-up of at least six classes of Greek school in Greece and resides permanently and legally in the country, acquires the Greek citizenship from the completion of the six-year period of study", is unconstitutional for sure. How do we now come to bid and introduce provisions that are far less than those which have already been judged unconstitutional? How is it possible to ignore the decision of the Council of State? How is it possible to ignore the provisions of the Constitution, in what sense and with what purpose? Ladies and gentlemen, the government is making a historic and national problem, I believe for electoral and false forwarding reasons, effectively canceling the letter and the spirit of the Constitution, but also the decisions of justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me one more minute, Mr President. Minister, it is important that you withdraw this article, like the one that has developed Article 1 and Article 10, in order to benefit from the support and vote of the New Democracy. In every bill you refer to the notorious agreement, in the hope that, in any case, there would be a consensus in the country so that we could go to such an agreement collectively with a common acceptance. This has not been done, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so that I am excluded from the vote on any agreement, regardless of how my own party is to be placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is of great interest to discuss this bill for two reasons. The first reason is in itself. The second reason is why it highlights the great contradiction of the SYRIZA - ANEL alliance that today governs the country. A left party, he says, with a party whose leader is led by the most extreme right-wing viewpoints, fearful and conspiracy. They are now ruling the country and they have led it to the point where they have led it. So when the falsely-built 'immemorial and antimony dilemma' collapsed, on the basis of which parties and others have made power, then the contradictions will emerge in the background, which under no circumstances will guarantee a coherent, progressive policy for the country and cannot lead the country forward and will be static, chained. Ladies and gentlemen, today Mr Tsipras is in a debate with the institutions to finalise the agreement, on the basis of which the people hope to escape the complete catastrophe with which Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA - ANEL government threatened him. This debate is based on the government's proposal. Anyone who has not read it well, take today's "AUGIOS" and study it in the whole, so that Mr Kammenos - who allegedly blackmails and threatens not to vote for the reduction of VAT on the islands - is, in fact, his partner and Prime Minister, who has proposed the reduction of VAT on the islands. I would remind you that this reduction was introduced by us as PASOK in 1987, taking advantage of the accession treaty of the country which refers to islands, which other countries of course also have, in order to keep their competition from islands. Because without him they can't exist. And we hear a number of strange recompense that do not exist. It's a fig sheet for Mr. Kammenos to vote. That's what this sketch is about. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that SYRIZA, who, in cooperation with the ANELs, blackmailed the non-elected President of the Republic by building guilty men and accusing members of the well-known "Haikalis gate" parliament, and all of this, had the only chance from the 25th of January that has become a government - as Mr Venizelos said - of wishing them to go well - by 20 February to make use of our own red lines to close an agreement, the cost of which would be less than 1/4 of the measures that the government will bring us here. We can easily compare $1 billion, 1.2 billion to 8.1 billion. This opportunity, which had to be done, had to be a national front, a national negotiating committee, lost by the government in election and post-election lies. And who will now pay for it, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the bewilderment? The Greek people will pay for it. You say the idea that rich people will pay for it. And the poor will pay for it. Because the increase in VAT on people's consumption is for the poor. You say the idea that we've saved 15 billion euros a year in two years '16 and '17 and we'll only pay 8.1 euros. The hoja hut reminds of this political stow to rally your MPs. Because you made the mistake - we told you on February 20 - that you ratified a memorandum without money, while you started claiming money without a memorandum. And to be informed, because in SYRIZA they have good Internet services to look for the PASOK announcement on the basis of which late November, early December, we set our own red lines: not the reduction of wages, not the reduction of pensions, not the lifting of VAT on the islands by 30%. And here they have not just violated our own, they have broken their own red lines. And, of course, we had the opportunity again when Mrs Gennimata as a newly appointed President of PASOK visited Mr. Tsipras to tell him to make the big decision: "Yes", in Europe, to say "no" to populism, to stop games. He did. I hope it's not too late. The cost's gonna be too big anyway. And who will be invited, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for this agreement? The government that has the declared. What's the declarant? The hundred and forty - nine SYRIZA MPs and thirteen ANELs. Is it important, then, to talk about the declared one today? Of course it does. Because there are also willing in this House to vote, regardless of the content of the agreement. We have said that we will assess it quantitatively and qualitatively for the impact of the measures and obviously measures that we would not vote on in the government, we are not prepared to vote on them in opposition either. We'll be placed in a position of responsibility. But we will wait for the government's leadership, the two partners to take the responsibility of telling the House, the parliamentary groups, of voting for the agreement and of recording the one hundred-five-five-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four-four. Otherwise there's no government the next day. Do you understand that? [[Applause]] That is what Mr Voutsis has been listening to, who has been raped to answer Mr Gregorakos. Because the major for us is not the declarant in this bill, which already exists. The major thing for us is the declared and governmental stability of a government that considers it to be limited of responsibility. EIA governments do not exist. The role of the limited liability partner is currently being played by Mr Kammens. We have seen more works with majority MPs saying that the House will send a message, but we support the government. These have been paid in Cyprus too expensive and you have to say, Mr Philly, to those who say it here in Greece. They are responsible for the SYRIZA MPs and they must take it all over, or the country will go into adventure. So this framework comes up with this bill, which is it? It's flesh from the flesh of PASOK. It's n. 3838/10, when we voted for him here, facing all the racist figurine, on our own. In honor of SYRIZA, Mr. Friend, you were not in the House, but SYRIZA voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u223	Uh, not on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u224	You're right, Mr. Paphie, and others. But we've received threats. And the Council of State came and canceled Article 1. Why did we want to? We wanted what's happening all over the advanced world. In other words, a child is born in a country, taking citizenship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u225	Which country is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u226	So, the children of Greek immigrants who take citizenship in other countries are children of a lower god? Against this, we hear theories fearful, theories that human rights consider them to be a card in second degree. I have heard the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks talking about low-economic and social grade children. In other words, when a child is born he is a low grade and not a child of the same god. I have heard terrible views which speak of the changes that have taken place in the 1980s, as Mr Haikalis said, where instead of citizenship we are talking about citizenship. Yeah, I know some right-wing people who will rule them in the 1980s and Andreas Papandreou, as well as others who are after him. They're gonna be chased by all this. What is ideologically and politically 'childs' of the PASOK People's Movement, we will not let anyone else adopt them. We accept to protect it and we will support it by the end. That is why our rapporteur said that we are voting on the bill. He also reminded the statement made by Mrs Gennamas, who was responsible for these issues, when she raised the subject at the "DENMARKING" and said: "We welcome the government's effort, it is our work, which we have shaped in the government, but we have not been able to vote for it. That is why we will now vote on it.' So we will be consistent with what you say. This does not mean that we will not show ourselves here in the debate that there is no progressive majority on these issues. For these issues, there is a heirous front, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, which cannot guide the fates of the country. I heard Mr. Voutsi, who spoke earlier in his position. His government partners and the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, as well as Mr Haikalis, had intervened. He didn't find a word. A word! He told us about immigration, which is a more general problem in the region. We agree. We are at the crossroads of migratory flows, due to wars, poverty. It is a more general problem that we must address in the context of the European Union. This does not mean that we are 'transferring' the immigrants to Omonia to'saving', as the Minister says. We need a structured policy, and we have given examples of it. But Mr Voutsis did not find himself saying a word about what we have heard today. Because Mr. Vuches told us that we must not be fearful, but we must go ahead. Obviously, we agree. But with who? Madam Minister and gentlemen of the government, you must understand that well. We will be consistent with our ideas, our principles and our policies. It may be because we are telling the truth that we have left a small party, but the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is not counted by quantity. The truth comes at some point where it's justified. After five years, our view will be justified when we said that segregation of a memorandum and an antimony is a fake one and we will not accept - let me tell you that - to build new dividing lines between the Greeks, such as 'not austerity', 'yes', 'yes' in Europe'. We want 'yes' in Europe, without austerity. This is the right line, that we will defend and, on the basis of this, we will judge the government's course if the measures come tomorrow. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u227	Thank you. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas has the floor. Come to Stepma, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u228	I should like to begin with a few comments on the suggestion made by Minister Tsias Tassias Christodoulopoulos. I listened carefully to the Minister for over half an hour. I will not go into the more general style, which reminded me of an old good Greek cinema, as it spoke - very important - of children unhappy, of humanism, of people who have no place to go. Madam Secretary, these people have a place to go. Under the responsibility of the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and now your own coexistence of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, they have where to go and not randomly, but on the basis of a plan. They have to go and come to Greece. The Minister told us about immigrants who want to stay in Greece, old generation immigrants, as she said, namely those who live for many years now - illegally, I will add - in our country. He said about immigrants who want to leave, the immigrants who are invading our country now, an invasion that your colleague, the Minister of Public Order, said attributes: "Thirty thousand immigrants send us from the border Turkey will be destroyed." He's right. The country will be destroyed before Mrs Christodoulopoulos gets there, and that is the truth. The invaders who now come to Greece will not be able to stay for seven years to make their children Greek, just for the reason that in seven years and with this law, which you bring here today, there will be no Greece. In order for the world, which listens to us, to the catastrophic, anti-Greek law that you will vote in this Chamber, I am sending you today's news, which concerns first-generation children, during Mrs Christodoulopoulos. Albanian veterans who serve in the Greek Army form the Albanian eagle with their hands. I read: "Towards Greek citizenship and the benefits arising from it, many Albanians are doing their military service in Greece. The evil is that no one knows whether they have the Greek conscience or, at least, respect this country that has given them so many opportunities in their lives. There is also a worse scenario, that they should also be unfavourable, that simply benefits once again our atrocity or goodness." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, most of you are best known for Marxism and Leninism and you are not just you. There are other parties. The New Democracy is found by both MPs and consultants who have previously been consistent Bolsheviks. So Lenin said: 'The police will offer us the rope themselves to hang them'. In paraphrasing his words, let me say that you funny ones will also offer the rope themselves to the invaders who will hang the Greeks and destroy their homeland. Our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitis, mentioned in detail the intentional oversimplification of things on your part as regards the terms and interpretations of the terms 'Nationality' and 'Liability'. You all think of the bill under discussion that there is no question, no objection, and you all accept it in its essence, despite all the minor differences that the spokesmen of the New Democracy are trying to point out in order to alleviate popular anger. They agree on the substance. On some articles "for the eyes of the world" they say they disagree. The only people who react essentially to this law are the golden ones. So people here say that citizenship and citizenship are the same. Do the inspirations of this project know what the difference between these two conditions is? We would like to take the view that they do not know, although there are many people in this Chamber who are considered to be top lawyers. Nationality: The legal and political bond linking the individual as a citizen of a state with that State. Nationality: The legal and political bond connecting the individual as a citizen to the state in which he belongs. Do you realize the difference between the two terms? In citizenship we are simply dealing with the political link between the citizen and the state, while in citizenship we are dealing with the political link between the citizen and the state in which he belongs, that is, his country, his country. We are indigenous, the Greeks, in our homeland, where our roots are. By giving Greek citizenship and not citizenship, foreigners become indigenous automatically. So simple, so foolish, but also so treacherous and unwilling. The question is why, while everyone in Europe and the United States has citizenship, we are so generous and give citizenship. This is a fundamental contradiction and we call upon Article 1(2) of our Constitution, which speaks of popular sovereignty. By providing citizenship to foreigners you are severely affected by popular sovereignty and you know why you are hurting it. Golden Dawn is the only political force that fights to defend our national identity and resists. It resists by all legal means the imposed Marxist and liberal ethnicism. Whatever bill you bring against the will of the Greek people, against the truth that says that Greece belongs to the Greeks, in practice and in the evolution of things in our country will be cancelled by this people themselves. You are ignoring and shaking the will of the people and you do not have the democratic sensitivity for such an important issue to put it in his judgment, to make a referendum, because you know the outcome in advance. In other European countries, such as Luxembourg, its inhabitants recently and 78% declared a resounding 'no' to the extension of the electoral rights of foreigners, who have been in Luxembourg for more than ten years. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Golden Dawn has often been accused of its positions and of the issue of illegal immigration by persons, organisations that have clear and expressed links with Zionist paramilitary power. It is known that the arrests and imprisonment of the Chief of MPs and members of the Golden Dawn were carried out at the instigation of American Jewish Committee, the world Jewish Congress and their presidents, David Harris and Roland Londer. Even Mrs Merkel, with whom you are apprehensive - right and left - pays the anti-racist treatment of Greeks with free publications, with publications made with resources from the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as this related version on migration to Greece of the "Roza Luxemburg" Foundation - the notorious institution - known Prosecutor of Golden Dawn. I'll give you the documentary on the Minutes when I find it. I have a lot to tell you today. So since these organisations' directives are the gospel on the basis of which the democratic and the right to speak of the Members of the Greek Parliament is weighed, I, Mr President, propose that our country follow the example of those who put the laws of democracy, tolerance and modern democracy. The evidence I shall submit comes from the non-governmental organisation 'International Affairs Institute', established by the Communist Altiero Martini, one of the protagonists and founders of the European Union, the most important factor in the European Parliament's integrated proposal for a federal European Union. The project was called the Spinelli Plan. And at this point, for each interested party, I will submit to the Minutes the relevant information and history of the existing, unfortunately in progress, plan of national dissolution and the social fabric of the whole of Europe, the famous 'Cudenhove - Callergi Plan' for the genocide of the peoples of Europe. Anyone who wants to learn and open their eyes, let him study. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The system of granting political asylum, immigration and granted citizenship to Israel follows the laws created to preserve the Jewish character of the state. It facilitates the entry of an immigrant, since he has at least one grandparent, who has the right to emigrate and become a citizen of Israel. At the same time, it prevents the migration of people of any other origin. Therefore, in Greece, you who worship all those who are persecutors of the Golden Dawn should only facilitate the entry of Greeks - the genus - migrants who want to re-enter our homeland and reject any other invader or immigrant. Eventually those who irregularly manage to enter Israel, immigrants, do you know how they face the Israeli paradise? Do you know that? You know it, but you don't say anything. Jerk! I would like to refer to another example, which also reflects our views. In 1971, speaking to the British journalist of the BBC, a big tok host in Britain, his box champion, Cassius Clay, or Mohammed Ali, he said: "When you talk about integration, you talk about marriages between races. I am sure that no intelligent man who sees your show, sir, no white man with his logics wants black boys or black girls to marry their white sons and daughters and present children with half-cafes and black hair as grandchildren." In the journalist's protests "Society has made us different" Mohammed Ali answers: "We are different. Not society, but God made us different. The pigeons want to be with the pigeons. Eagles want to be in the mountains. It's all birds, but they have a different culture. Pakistanis like their culture. Jews like their culture. Who wants to undo my nice race and lose my nice identity? You hate your own people if you don't want to be who you are. You're embarrassing the god who made you. God didn't make a mistake making us the way we are. You can do whatever you want, but nature wants you to be with people of your own race. And I want to be with my people." Mohammed Ali. Anyone who wants to look for his interview. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Activate the anti-racist law you, gentlemen of the democratic arch, but listen to Mohammed Ali. And if his word for anti-racist, dig him up and test him. Mr. Metarakis, listen. You're very interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u229	Personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u230	Personally and your party. We disagree and disagree strongly. We have another perspective. We believe, indeed, that this will be a disastrous bill for Greece. But why should we hear insults because we defend, for example, national society? Why do we have to be aware of this? Yes, we are defending national society. We do not believe in multicultural society. We believe in the national state. We do not believe in a constitutional state, which has no content. The question is: Nationality does not matter. You can claim it, ladies and gentlemen. Say it. Nationality doesn't matter. It doesn't matter about citizenship. It doesn't matter for co-existence, it doesn't matter for social formation. It doesn't matter about I.D. It doesn't ultimately matter to yourself. The last person who has read half a page from the philosophy of the language will tell you: "We recommend ourselves through words and words are language, it is culture, culture is national identity". You suddenly pulled her out of the picture, like it doesn't matter. Why have the Arabs not been incorporated in Paris, Mr President? Why have the Turks not been integrated after so many years in Germany? Why have Muslims not been integrated in the Netherlands, who are today talking about murders of vengeance due to religion? I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, something simple. At the moment the majority, with the support of SYRIZA, will vote for something that we will find before us in the coming years as a disaster of national society." The above words fully reflect our views, in which we insist against any honour, views which we claim, of which we are persecuted. These words - I will give them to you for the Minutes of the House - are the position of Mr Mavroudi Voridis during the debate on the Ragosi Act a few years ago in this Chamber. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall continue, Mr President, and I shall end with the other Cappadoc. I quote: "It makes me a terrible impression, and I am particularly addressing colleagues in the New Democracy, who are obviously hypocritical, as we have all understood from the previous debate on the vote on the objection of anti-constitutionalism, where, unfortunately, New Democracy once again was drafted on the part of multiculturalism by voting in favour of the constitutionality of the law and has not even understood the New Democracy, even this so-called 'new' New Democracy by Mr Antonis Samaras - today we understand how new it is - that the debate we are doing here today is exemplary politics and ideological and that this debate on terrestrial things of the type “that is what our rapporteurs said, then we do not want seven and a half to be seven.” We are not discussing this today, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing whether our national Parliament, the Greek Parliament with its vote to transform the nation-state of the Greeks, the national society of the Greeks as created after the Revolution of 1821 into a multicultural and multiracial structure. That's what we're talking about here today. We're not discussing technical details. We are perhaps discussing the most profound ideological debate that has taken place in this Parliament in recent decades. I am very sorry that the New Democracy, which should represent the national side, based on the history of its party and its voters, has once again chosen to remain on the side of the new order of things and multiculturalism." He saw Adonis Georgiadis in the same debate as Mr Vorides, your current parliamentary representative. They will feed the bones of the great Greek creator Egenios Spatharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Pappa, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that the laws are made to apply. That's right. But this is done in a favoured and prosperous rule of law. Like all of you of the so-called democratic arch you have taught us how to circumvent the laws from 1974 until today, therefore following your example, even once in your own tactic, we say that we are writing in the last of our shoes your poacher, this illegal anti-constitutional law. That's the law we're kicking him! Take him away! You, gentlemen, will not tear off the Greek people and the country! You have no right! This house, ma'am, has been home, owned for thousands of years. You will not mortgage this house with your loan shark agreements and much more you will not change householders. Housekeeper, sovereign in this country, in this house was, is, and will be the Greek people. You're not bringing in new owners. You will not bring in new mushrooms, smugglers and intruders. Mrs. Tasia, take them home, if you want, if you're so compassionate, if you're so sensitive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u233	Mr Papapas, you do not address the Minister and say 'Mrs. Tasia'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u234	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u235	For reasons of courtesy to the Minister you cannot address as "Mrs. Tasia", as "Ms. Christodoulopoulos".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u236	Tasia Christodoulou, isn't it called Christodoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u237	You said the one, you didn't say the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u238	At the edge of the speech. The courtesy is always... To say, however, that linen, smoke curtain is this compassion that you are supposed to show for the eyes of the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have been born - and I shall end, Mr President - and we will die Greeks. We have the people on our side, you know that. We fight for the country. You know that very well. You know our dynamics, the dynamics of the nationalist movement, and that is why you are fighting us. You're fighting us with all legal and illegal means. We live in Greece - it is the title of our newspaper today - you go elsewhere. Finally, remember all of you that the Greek people will not let you do that. There's a Wude. Not Zorba's Wude, not the Movement Wude 1909, but the other. This is from the word of Mr. Loverdou, in this Chamber on 19-6-2015, referring to the prospect of bankruptcy and currency change, which is quite the opposite to the painful prospect of the destruction of Greece and the Greek nation since the vote of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u239	Finish it, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u240	If Mr Loverdos asks for Woudi and urges the Greek people to go to Wade for the change of currency and does not sound in this Chamber, what should we ask for compared to this bill, where not the change of currency, but the change of an entire people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u241	First of all, because Mr Pappas spoke eighteen minutes, it goes without saying that I am adding his dentistry and has no dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u242	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u243	Secondly, you will allow me to say that the laws passed by the Greek Parliament are not torn!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u244	Disobedience.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u245	Some people like it and some people don't like it, but no laws that are democratically passed by the Greek Parliament. We're moving on. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a truly crucial bill, which is related to one of the most unresolved problems facing our country, that of immigration. It is a problem that threatens to be turned into a megaton bomb and to blow our already fragile social cohesion, with what this implies for tomorrow in Greece, especially in a green geopolitical environment, with warfare in progress and with neighbours who are clearly acting in the light of dangerous nationalisms. We are discussing these today, Mr President, because of the incomprehensible governmental background, at the time of the dramatic peak of a five-month period, the quasi-negotiating for an agreement with the partners, another incident in a lasting recital of irresponsibility and immaturity by political forces that have deceived and carried the Greek people, with the sole aim of getting power. And what did you, gentlemen of the conflict, accomplish in your unfaithful tactics? You have plunged the country's political life for months in uncertainty, cloned the real economy, led it into a coma, caused a crack in the banking system with the panic that you sowed the depositors, declared an internal payment stop - all healthy companies, turned the index of growth into a negative orbit. You said you'd rip up the memoirs with one, a law, junkies and bullies, you'd share money cut out of the bad memoirs. And what did you do? You have chosen for the entire five months to play theatre, to play "baroufakia games", "creative ambiguities" and others. And what's the result today? With the back sticking to the wall, Greece, with the Prime Minister's signature, please propose measures of 7.9 billion euros, you who overthrown the previous government for 980 million. And we still don't know what else is going to be on the unbroken list of measures. But also from what we know, it is certain that everyone will be hurt and do not try to mislead. The dramatic increase in VAT in food, in tickets, in flat-consumed goods, in focus, in the insurance funds, will primarily affect the popular layers, for which you, the defenders of the weak, are supposed to be cut. The worst thing, however, is that your measures will hit the heart of the economy, the private sector. Tax bombardment will level what is left standing, sending even more to unemployment. We still do not know what your agreement on debt will eventually bring, on financing, on additional measures to be taken along the way, such as the probable rapid increase in taxation on farmers. I would expect, even now, a word of self-criticism from those who easily described as "German german gypsies" the supporters of the e-mail Hardouvelis, of just EUR 980 million. Are you, who introduce measures of EUR 8 billion, the proud national government? Ladies and gentlemen, the same irresponsibility, the same slightness that shows ignorance of danger, the lack of awareness of the issue and serious ideological obsessions, has the bill under discussion on the yield of citizenship to immigrants. And we are discussing this when the Aegean islands are literally confusing tens of thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants who are passing through our country. The images cause shame and indignation. Instead of dealing with these serious issues, because it cannot be seen as a serious policy only to transport ships to the port of Piraeus and then to "liotherapy" in Omonia, you are running - don't lose - to give the "harber" that Greece has "opened" and waited for everyone and that here there is a good chance to get citizenship or licensed a European state. Ladies and gentlemen, it is incomprehensible that Greece, which is one of the main gates of immigration into Europe, should adopt the relaxing legislation on citizenship. No one objects to a man who was born here, went to school, graduated, is an adult, loves Greece, feels Greece as his homeland to take Greek citizenship. But that's another thing to say that citizenship is taken by a child just because he's enrolled in the first grade. That overthrows every logic rule. What cultural links, what deeper relationship may have been created at this age? If man's personality does not end, how can he decide if he wants to be one or the other? What your school bill suggests is fig sheet, it's bureaucratic alibi. Let's not hide behind the finger. Your purpose is to make a massive representation of citizenship. This is also apparent from other provisions of the bill, such as facilitating family reunification - which is an outrageous challenge for illegal entry into the country of women with children to obtain a residence permit - and reducing the time provided for the performance of citizenship for exceptional reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, the moments the country is experiencing are critical and will be critical even if the painful agreement is there, even if it is voted on. We can save ourselves - as we hope - the destruction, but the globe does not end with policies, such as those which irresponsibly and unsatisfactoryly promote this conflict, the struggle for salvation will last much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u247	I too, Mr. Harakopoulos, for the consistency in time. Mr Apostle Karastasis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today refers to an issue that is inherent to the very existence of the new Greek state, a state which, in the last two centuries of its existence, has lived and lives for political, economic or other reasons of internal migration, migration, refugee and the repatriation of large parts of its population. Just remind me of the refugee wave that followed the Asia Minor Destruction, the mass migration of labour towards America and Europe in the years of the Middle War, but also in the first civil war, our exile of fellow citizens during the junta period, as well as the current mass fleeing of young people abroad, in their efforts to escape the unprecedented economic and humanitarian crisis which has plagued our country for the past five years. Here I could make a reference to all these colleagues who do not touch the problem of today's debate, but they are coming to the debate on the great effort that the Prime Minister is currently making in a negotiation, which is a long-standing solution to the Greek problem so that the country can finally enter a development path, as this has actually been a disaster in recent years. At the same time, over the past twenty-five years, Greece has become a host country of migrants from either host countries or from farther countries. And for reasons equivalent to those I described for Greeks who migrate abroad, they left their homes and look to Greece for a refuge for life and work or a way to continue their survival journey to other European countries. Wars such as in Syria, fundamentalism, such as in Afghanistan, civil wars and the lack of natural resources in Africa, or simply search for jobs and better living conditions from the border countries, have sent and sent to our country large waves of political refugees, economic migrants, but also landslides. It is therefore a problem of time-consuming globalism, to which each country and its people should, in fact, be, whether it is a host country or a country that is bleeding populations, placed with consideration, without racism, but taking into account the situation of its own indigenous population and deciding what procedures and what numbers these people will incorporate into local society. The fact is that, as in the explanatory memorandum accompanying the bill, the limits of the political community have ceased to be static. What is the municipality in its ancient Greek concept? What, then, is the composition of the political community that exists and operates in an area? It is an issue that touches the core of what we call'solvency' in the urban sense of the term and therefore relates to the fundamental problem of every society, which is an effective investigation of democracy. The political community is based on the common will of people living together and therefore concerns a large number of foreigners rooted in a place and, above all, their children born, raised and trained in this place, forming a national identity similar to that of indigenous people. The common will of these people to belong to a nation, regardless of their origin, creates the people and founds unity in their path to the future, but with respect for their history and cultural heritage. However, the integration of these people must be coordinated and with clear rules so that this respect can be guaranteed. It was therefore obvious that the need to draft a bill regulating the issues of citizenship, improving the existing Code of Migration and Social Integration, following the decision of the CoR's Plenary Assembly on the previous law, to incorporate in the Greek legislation the relevant Directives of the European Parliament and to regulate the pendingity of the possibility of obtaining Greek citizenship for foreign children born in Greece and foreigners who have graduated from Greek schools in our country. But I cannot point out - it is true about my party, SYRIZA - that although two years have passed since the decision of the CSB against the constitutionality of the previous relevant law and despite the exacerbation of the problem in these years, SYRIZA had to come to the government to legislate self-evidently, according to the values of culture of the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to legislate for thousands of children who are growing up like our children. They're making the same friends as ours. They are our children's neighbors, their classmates and schoolmates, their friends and friends, children who often don't know homeland from Greece, children who speak, think and behave like us. It was very touching at times during the debate in committee for those who were there with representatives of immigrants to speak together and to develop their views with Greek, possibly better than ours. It should be said here that in the opinion of many of SYRIZA's colleagues, with whom I do not initially disagree, the bill is more restrained than we expected. In the years required for citizenship and other details, even in terms of wording, I would like to see it more progressively. However, we must take account of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the country on the previous relevant law, a decision that the favoured state and the rule of law cannot be ignored. In this light it is well known that the legislator's self-restraint in trying to have a law, which and a solution to the problems will give and in time will withstand and will not be in danger of being unconstitutional. Finally, Mr President, citizenship ceases to be seen as a prize or a prize for a difficult and long attempt to integrate migrants into Greek society. There is now the hand that the Greek society is spreading to immigrants, the hug that we are opening to them, by acknowledging an existing situation, a relationship that exists, with the aim of equal treatment and inclusion of people, in this case, children, whose life plan is founded here. That is why these children, the children of the so-called second generation, should be stopped as soon as possible from feeling second-class Greeks or Greeks waiting. I would like to make a reference to Article 13 of the bill, which concerns the establishment of a public limited liability company, with a view to investing in the development structures of the country and, in particular, in the construction and management of gas pipelines. I would like to emphasise the importance of this article for the Greek economy, which, over time and how much in today's unfavourable situation, is obliged to fully discover and exploit any energy opportunity offered in the country, whether it relates to our own natural resources - RES, for example - or to agreements with other countries, such as the recent agreement concluded by our Government with Russia on the gas pipeline. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go any further than what I have just said. In this first debate, I would like to say in conclusion by closing my position that the bill is in the right direction, the provisions with what I have just said are fair and come to fill an important gap after the Skopje decision, as far as possible, healing a serious social problem. That's why I'm voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u249	Mr Christos Karayannides has the floor. Will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u250	Yes, Mr President, thank you. For many years there has been a different picture from the meetings held in the committee responsible in relation to plenary. I understand that there is a communal reason for doing this, but it does not really respond. According to the Minutes and the vote in committee, I think that there was a common acceptance and an understanding of the issue from the whole democratic arc that this bill responds to problems that need to be addressed. And he responds in such a way - withholding, if you like, to say, he will not give the floor to question his legitimacy and constitutionality. Because we have the precedent of the Council of State and because we are accepting the rulings of the Supreme Courts, this bill takes a step forward in order to settle things that should have been settled since 2010, with the previous law, and things that have been solved in Europe for decades. Unfortunately, PASOK, under Law 3838/2010, did not attempt to implement it. That's where we had this special. The next New Democracy - PASOK and DIMAR Cooperation Government, only with the break-up of the decision by S.H.E. has frozen the law and this has had a negative effect on the children who were already in the process of obtaining citizenship. So today's bill comes to answer these issues. And if we take out the Nazi cries, if we take out the extreme right of the New Democracy, criticism of the bill on its substance is not possible. Let me give you an example. There's a lot of talk, 'cause a kid can get citizenship in the first grade. I'm sorry, but if he doesn't get it in the first grade and get it in the fourth grade or in his eighteenth year, from six to eighteen years, what nationality would he have? A child born in Greece, a child who will attend the Greek school, a child who will move within the Greek society and have pictures and hearings from the Greek society you say he can't do that because he will alter the school. Do you think about what position the children in the first grade are, and until they get to the fourth grade, or until they're eighteen years old, what kind of treatment do they have in schools? Do you forget the flag incidents? You're forgetting the episodes of children hanging in the handkerchiefs, why did they have foreign parents? Isn't that what you want us to deal with? Isn't that what we ask as a Greek society to deal with? So, let's see what's the reality over the communal straddles? Let's see what the reality of Greek society is now. It has also been heard - and indeed from a legal point of view - that in times of crisis - I put it as a matter of understanding what is being said in plenary - as we are now living in a humanitarian, economic, political crisis in the country, the rights of Greek citizens should be higher than the rights of foreigners, and so we should first see the human rights of the Greeks and then the rest. Is it possible to hear such talk in here? Do you know when this was attempted? In the 1940s, when the Jews suddenly had no rights, because they were in a country in crisis and in war. Is it possible to hear any arguments of the press 'we weigh on a scale, depending on what nationality it has in a country, who has or does not have rights? Can we go forward like this? Can we move this way? The other thing that sounds - and also if it wasn't on the verge of nonsense and dangerous at the same time, we could see it as a humor - is that they have increased - says - migratory flows, because SYRIZA came to the government and learned it in these countries and because they opened the borders, they all come to Greece. Let me just say the first argument. You know in the first half of 2014 - why until then are there evidence - how many people did we have left their homes? It was five and a half million. Do you know from the five and a half million of these people how many have come to Europe - not to Greece, to Europe? Six hundred thousand are here. And that's what you think happened because SYRIZA won the government? Let me tell you something, because it's my personal experience. The Syrian prosecutor I met, who left at the risk of his life and endangered the lives of his three children and his wife, came to Greece, because he heard in Syria that SYRIZA was in government and left all his life and his fate and his life there, loaded up three children, walked I don't know and ‘ how many thousand kilometers, passed the Aegean and came here because he heard that SYRIZA is government. Will you at last say a serious argument, can we have a little talk of the prerogative? Should we also have a conversation worth it, correcting and correcting as a government? Are you going to say sometime - why won't you tell me, I'll tell you right now - how much deportation in Europe costs? EUR 11.3 billion was spent on deportation in Europe. Do you know how much technological support is costing us to have all of what we have in Europe - a 'fortress'? It costs 1,3 billion euros. Do you know where we could make this money available? And finally, as a New Democracy, this money you have taken from Europe to do these camps of indecentness, have you assessed what exactly they have brought? There is this grand argument. We put the fence in Evros and cut the migration flows. No, no, no, no, You've multiplyed them on the islands. The fence in Evros cost 3.1 million euros. Did you do something? I'm hanging up with this. Thirty thousand immigrants won't come to the country to enchant you. Thirty thousand immigrants won't scare you. They drowned in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u251	Well, we close this section of colleagues, after a mutual transfer made to the list, with Mr Athanasios, followed by the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mrs Gerovasil, and then by the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, things would have been much simpler and we would not have wasted so much time if there were indeed this difference between nationality and citizenship, which at the end of the 1950s began to be abandoned. You remember the older people that in our identities we were told "costness". Why am I saying that? I have been given the opportunity to analyse it in detail in committee. I am not going to tire you in this House now. Citizenship is a natural fact that shows where someone of course comes from. While citizenship is a political act granted by the state to foreigners, foreigners in our country, under the conditions laid down by the legislator. In any case, European law and Greece has prevailed. In fact, in the Constitution now it is only about citizenship. This as a lege ferenda we could claim later. Now I'd like to get into something Mr. Voutsis said and he's right. What did Mr. Voutiss say? That on the coast of Turkey, there are about three and a half million immigrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u253	And Jordan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u254	What does Turkey do to stop them? A lot more, when there are commitments, there is an agreement between the European Union and Turkey to reintroduce immigrants to Turkey - which it does not. There is a Turkish agreement with FRONTEX to make on-the-spot checks on its territory. What did the Greek Government do in this direction to implement these conventions? The Greek Foreign Minister recently went to Turkey. We have not seen from the press, Mr Voutsi, if this issue has been raised, an issue which is a European issue. Already according to the data from the Greek Police database, I have to tell you that in the first five months of 2014, which in 2014 we had the war in Syria, in Greece had illegally come six thousand four hundred sixty-seven immigrants from the various countries. In the first five months of 2015, until May, this figure reached forty - five thousand percent thirty - three. So we had an increase of about 600%. Now let's see how the issue of citizenship works. What is also mentioned in international literature is whether the issue of citizenship - I say citizenship, because that has prevailed - is a humanitarian or national issue. Do not confuse the humanitarian when it comes to charity to someone who is an immigrant. This is another matter. And we will see for the children what could be done until they acquired citizenship, as we claim. They would simply have a permanent residence permit in our country and there would be no problem, with what this means in their education and in their medical care. But the issue is national. That is what all European countries say. It belongs to every state's domestic law. One who has the prerequisites that the state sets can acquire citizenship. It is not, therefore, a right, Mr Balafa, as you have said, but a sovereign competence of the state. It belongs, in other words, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State concerned, according to its domestic law, which lays down the rules. The plan that we had drawn up but was not adopted, as we have explained, because there was a different view of governance at the time, is based on two axes. And these axes, as I will explain, are followed by most European countries. The first is the calibration of the genuinely personalized bond that the immigrant must have with Greece, with Greek society, to have embraced the language, customs, customs and to have joined. In other words, we do not give citizenship, as the legislature wants, in the hope that someone will join the Greek society, but since it has been incorporated into Greek society and this has been confirmed, we give citizenship as a reward. Not with hope, then, to join. The second is the individualisation of the crisis for the acquisition of citizenship, a crisis which, as I said, is based on the harmonious social and cultural integration of the migrant in his Greek history. So this has to be done with merital evidence. Now, I will not go into the articles. The articles will be discussed in the debate on the subject. On the bill we have to say, it is a mistake that many fellow Members say: 'After the parents have been in Greece for five years and then 11 years, when the child is going to go to school, why can't we say that they have joined?' But it's simple. We don't look forward to giving the parents citizenship. That's a huge mistake, and we hear it all the time. We look forward to giving citizenship to the child. It's two different things. And what you said, Minister, about what the Scientific Council of Parliament said, I tell you that the Scientific Council of Parliament - and I wonder why - does not take a clear position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u255	He never does.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u256	Check out what it says: "The new arrangement does not render Greek citizenship to the foreign child from birth and also for birth at the critical moment when the child is introduced into the Greek school after eleven years of the rightful residence of the parent, of which five before birth" etc. In other words, they must be completed and if they are born outside - the Minister is not here for ten years. But that is based on a wrong condition. We don't care about the years that the parent lives here at all. We look forward to the child. On the contrary, there is another danger. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. If you like, a tolerance, as with other colleagues, because I think it is basically what I am saying, in my view. The legislator says that the parent must be permanently and legally resident in Greece for these years in order to acquire citizenship. If the child takes this citizenship and then parents for whatever reason they legally lose their right to live in Greece, then there is a great abuse in this provision, because children act as anchors. Indeed, in the United States they are called “children - anchors”, which, to be united, are then being lured by parents. This can be done when one parent is only permanently staying in Greece, so the "child - anchor" also lures the second parent, which you realize is what problems may cause. Beyond that now, there's another contradiction in the bill. Assume, ladies and gentlemen, two children born today. One of Bulgarian parents in Greece is now born and another child from Bulgarian parents born in Filippopolis, Sofia. The child who was born here, only when he was enrolled in primary school, acquires citizenship. If the child who was born the same day in Bulgaria comes after two days here, why does she have to make nine years of school? One by the entry he becomes citizenship, and the other, you say, nine years. You see, then, where this hasty drives and, let me say, without thinking of a legacy. More than that, if you appeal to the Council, the Supreme Court, you can declare the provision unconstitutional, for the simple reason that you cannot Greeks with an express constitutional order go to school nine years and the children of foreigners only by registering to acquire Greek citizenship. Of course, the other conflict, which I was given the opportunity to say to the committee, is that if the parents stay five years in Greece, the child only at birth is enrolled in primary school. But if the parents stay four years and four and a half months, then the parents must have another ten years in Greece. We're saying extremes, which may be if...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u257	Minister, let's get this over with, shall we?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u258	I'm done, Mr. President. I have always had the happiness of the last four speeches to preside over but also of the misfortune of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u259	Not even misfortune with three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u260	I shall conclude and thank you, Mr President. You may therefore have a problem with the Court of Human Rights if that difference exists. If we have no cancellation from the Court of Appeal in Greece, we may have cancellations from the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. Finally, I want to say this. Children can be protected, Mr Colleague, as you said about what will happen to children by granting them a residence permit. We will ensure that the time comes for them to acquire citizenship so that they do not risk with it or with the other provisions of the family combination. Finally, we had ready a provision for the expatriates. Why can't our children and our relatives from the countries of the former Soviet Union gain citizenship? We had a provision for you, and I had told the Minister. Bring this device. Why can't we just ascribe citizenship to those who have the Greek blood inside them and need a process either to the consular authorities or elsewhere? I don't understand. That is, we give citizenship to a child of foreigners who will be born in Greece and don't give our fellow citizens. I do not want to say that these children, to whom you want to give citizenship, are about two hundred and thirty-four thousand - two hundred and thirty-four thousand now, because the law will apply retroactively - are potential voters. But our fellow citizens too, since they live here, would also be potential voters. I can't understand why in one case you're interested in the other. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u261	Let's see when the bill will come for the Greek vote of the Americans, Australia, Canada. I didn't hear any talk about these Greeks. I only heard about others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, this bill is also ready for the vote of the homosexuals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u263	Minister, please. On the basis of Mrs Gerovas and Mr Georgiadis' kind solidarity, I would like to ask that Mr Lappas be preceded for a reason why I cannot communicate after speaking to the doctor and not to the President-in-Office. We will give you the floor for seven minutes, Mr Lappa, but you will keep him accurately. You will not take advantage of the two colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u264	Let's go a little bit further, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. After very large legal, political and ideological adventures, the legislation on citizenship finally comes to a discussion in Parliament. It is a very serious issue, because it goes to democracy and the rule of law. The issue of citizenship has not only adventures but also struggles behind it. Because the fight for citizenship, as we said in the Commission, is a fight for democracy, individual rights and social cohesion. There has been a lot of ink and a lot of talk about what the Council of State said in its decision number 360/2013. Before we go to this approach, let us see, anyway, what it means in the area of law and, in particular, in public law, citizenship. As a general concept, it is a legal structure through which the relationship between a human and a state is formed. In particular, in public law, citizenship is the association of a person to a state, whose people it belongs to. This is the scientific approach and this is the precise scientific legal definition of citizenship. This classic concept of citizenship is about the status of a person in relation to specific rights and obligations and the possibility of participation of the citizen in the institutions of the State. I stress the concept of participation. In other words, it means being recognized by the state as being equal subjects of a rule of law. This is why it has prevailed internationally in the field of public law that the fight for citizenship is a struggle for citizenship. I will tell you below what 'citizens' status means'. This definition of citizenship is also in line with the content of the concept of citizenship which the European Convention on Citizenship gives. So listen to what Article 2 of this article refers to: "Nationality is the legal bond between the individual and the state", stressing the phrase "and does not constitute an indication of its national origin". Below, the same convention states in Article 5: ‘The rules of the law of the Member States relating to nationality must not include provisions or any practice which constitutes discrimination on grounds of sex, religion, race, colour, national or ethnic origin’. But apart from this narrow and strict legal concept of citizenship, there is another concept, the so-called empirical concept. It is this other dimension of the concept of citizenship, which is associated with a identity of the citizenship of citizens in the form of self-consciousness and self-determination, which the members of a community acquire in their everyday lives. This is an objective and interactive process, acquired through being a member of a particular community, through interaction with others, participation in common, education and culture. The form of this citizenship is part of the classical democratic tradition of participation, stressing the word. Participation has taken the meaning in the field of law from Saskia Sassen of atypical quality, and from James Talys of collaborative status. This very concept includes ways of participating in public affairs, without any reference to institutional status. It is a concept that starts from the condition that individuals become citizens through their participation in the public, through their everyday practices. So the issue of citizenship is primarily a question of democracy and how to deal with it highlights the quality and scope of the rule of law. It is about society as a whole and not just some sensitive citizens and only immigrants. In this sense, it is now a universal request that this bill should cover the huge legal, social and sociological gaps that have created two things. Firstly, the decision 460/2013 of the Council of State and secondly, the uncertainty of the Greek state, which after the decision remains inert and does not regulate the matter. What did the decision of the Council of State say? You know very well that before the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State, a decision had been adopted by the First Department of the State. In that case, the legal arguments of the department were based solely on the principle of the law of origin or blood, of jus sanguinis. This is not the case, however, in the House. First of all, it says that the definition of the persons who are members of the public as the sovereign body of the state belongs to the sovereign - please - the competence of the State - to the national legislator, who is not, in fact, limited by any international, domestic or institution of law in respect of his or her right to determine the conditions and procedures for obtaining Greek citizenship. That's the first thing. So this House here, this House, is the absolute sovereign, has the sovereign right to determine the terms and conditions for the acquisition of Greek citizenship. Whilst this first accepted the S.H.E. and would expect, in particular, legal, on the basis of legal arguments, to end up with a "the same" which says that the House is the only and dominant body, making a reversal of arguments and a legal leap - I would say - where Article 4(3) of the Constitution reads as follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u266	What are you talking about? One covers the other. In case 10...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u267	No, Mr. Athanasios, listen. So what does this article do? We have said so in committee, Mr Athanasios. It now presupposes a minimum requirement and a limit for the relevant legislation and considers it necessary, in addition to the formal requirements, that, as the CoR itself accepts, the House should define it as the sovereign body of the Greek state - a substantial link, that is to say, it accepts that individuality is required in the judgment of acquisition or non-nationality. In any case, that is what the TEC's decision is about. On the one hand, there must be the right and it must be assumed that we will legislate in formal and practical terms and, on the other, it must be recognised as a basic principle and a right for Parliament to do so. In this decision, however, Mr Athanasios and colleagues, lawyers in particular, there was a strong minority of thirteen advisers, including two Vice-Presidents, who - what did they say? - they said what the majority first accepted, namely that it is the state that defines nationality, solely responsible for setting the conditions, criteria and qualifications. In fact, that is where the minority makes a point, and it says that the court is actually coming to overhaul, Mr Athanasios, which belongs to the state and Parliament. The minority even made a reference to the past and said that the 1944 Constitution stated that "citizens are the citizens who have acquired or will acquire the citizens' characteristics according to the laws of the state" and nothing else. It makes no other condition. Thus, the minority said that the House is not required to seek any further than the formal conditions and a substantial link with the Greek state. In fact, it says that otherwise the court will, in fact, replace it, in excess of the constitutional role, in the exercise of its duties. We therefore need to take account of the minority opinion. So this is what the bill does: it balances between respecting the arguments of the majority decision and the need for regulation. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. With regard to one last point, listen, ladies and gentlemen, there was a disagreement as to why since 1st grade and not after graduation from elementary school. This, first of all, has no legal significance at all. And you know why? Since someone wants to acquire Greek citizenship, he is obliged to take on the basis of the law. 2910/2001, interacting with all nine years of education. It is simply in the first year, according to the explanatory statement - why? - because psychological, pedagogical and sociological reasons are imposed in the first grade, so that the child spends time in nine years of compulsory education, not to be stigmatized as a child immigrant, because since he is involved in Greek education he must feel Greek. The last thing I want to say, Mr President - and I am closing down - is that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u268	But finish it. You said three times, 'I'm done'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u269	It has been said, Mr President, that the issue of citizenship has been treated somewhat differently in Europe or in the European states. I tell you that not only differently, but much more urgently than this bill treats the issue in Germany, France, the Netherlands and Ireland.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u270	It says in the eighteenth year...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u271	Eighteenth says, you need legal capacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u272	Read them, says the minority, read the minority, Mr. Athanasios. The bill is also inspired by legal dilemmas and by a strong humanitarian character. Mr. Athanasios, you remember the Champion in legal science, "money of all men". That's what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u273	I would ask Mrs Olga Gerovasili to radiate the bill as an X-ray colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u274	I will make the diagnosis, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago there was a strong debate on the difference of opinion between SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. So we have to tell you - to those from PASOK and New Democracy who tried to break this relationship in a way, using our failure to identify citizenship - that we believe - and it seems that your problem is not whether we coincide or do not coincide with citizenship. Obviously, how much this is about you. You are concerned that we so far - and we will continue - are a strong, solid government majority, which is determined. It is determined, with all its differences - which do not separate us - that they move forward and get the country out of the deadlocks in which you brought it. Therefore, there is clearly no question as to a bill. The Constitution of the country determines what that means. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now at a very decisive moment for our country, after a difficult, painful process for all of us and for the Greek people. We were very close - and yesterday - to reach an agreement. I want to be perfectly honest. The proposal tabled by the Greek Government as a basis for an agreement is not part of the SYRIZA programme. We have tried and tried to take space, to take time at the start of a equally difficult and persistent path, with a characteristic, firm commitment to the goal, a path towards the economic and productive reconstruction of the country and the prosperity of the Greek people. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] Confidence to the target, you know, is a guarantee of a successful four-year course. This route will go as far as we can today, along with the Greek people. We have negotiated hard, as we committed, within the European Union, a sustainable solution for both Greece and Europe. We negotiated hard, starting with accumulated pathogens forty years, on the ruins of five memorial years, political choices that brought names and signatures. Many of these signatures and of these names are in this Chamber. Some people are here to pick up the national effort. And to be honest, at the moment the Greek Government did not bring what it wanted to bring, but what it could really propose. What could he do in the midst of economic suffocation, artificial and real deadlocks, blackmails and behind-the-scenes scenarios that stood at the expense of the Greek Government and ultimately at the expense of the Greek people? Ladies and gentlemen, today our attention is on both sides. On the one hand, we are here today to discuss a very serious problem, such as citizenship for children born or living and growing up in this country and, at the same time, we are very anxiously following what is going on in Brussels, trying to achieve a mutually beneficial agreement. Our country, our Government, has tabled its proposal, a clear, complete proposal aimed at a sustainable agreement, a sustainable solution. The Greek Government has gone the way it was on this route. In fact, it has gone more than it really did. It is time for our partners, our creditors, to take responsibility for both the Greek people and the whole of Europe and in the European vision. We took the step. But step by step, we won't. We won't drag the dance into the eternal cycle of recession and austerity. Anyone who drugizes this course whether he is in the country or outside, whether it concerns economic policy or immigration policy, or whatever you want - because they are all connected - should also take their responsibilities. And, of course, in here, people will have to clear up their position, so that we can finally see whose interests they are trying to serve. Some give the impression that they drag the dance along with the International Monetary Fund and the lenders. They are the same ones who have talked about surpluses of 1.5% and different calculations have been made on this, while according to ELSTAT's official figures it is 0.4%, i.e. no-existent. They are the same, if they were still in the government today, that would have sacrificed another five thousand workers who had promised to lay off in the name of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the other side. Ours, let us say, savings, refers to a logic which has a redistributive figure to a large extent, which does not further cut public expenditure, which the rich are calling for but not only the rich, but also some who can withstand and contribute more to this particular timescale. At this point we must see what the Greek Government has done until the presentation of this proposal. First, he went back to politics. Politics has entered the centre of the debate and the negotiations, which has so far not been the case by previous governments and has not been abstract. We've internationalized the problem. We have made it clear that the problem is not only Greek. We have opened the debate - and we have spread it a lot - on the sustainability of the debt and we have made it clear that no agreement has any prospect if the country is constantly being forced to take loans to repay its loans. The proposal provides for low primary surpluses of 1% and 2% for 2015 and 2016 respectively, compared with 3% and 4.5% already agreed by the previous government of Samara - Venizelos. For 2016 alone, the economy is exempted from measures amounting to EUR 8,2 billion. There is no additional burden on low and medium layers. They're being charged, but not more. The government did not make any concessions to labour, wages and pensions. We also need to see not only how much the measures are costing, but also what they are really about. Like I told you before, we're trying. Our proposal has a redistributive character between both the rich layers and those that can contribute most. Ladies and gentlemen, the government throughout this difficult and painful period did not stop legislating about what it has promised in the election. These are interventions concerning the institutional armouring of the state, the restoration of the sense of law and the strengthening of social cohesion. Such a bill is today too. It is a bill that is fundamentally confronted with a problem of time, which gives social status to thousands of children who so far did not exist for the state, and which restores isotope and iso-state in our country. For us, citizenship is not a prize to be won at the end of a long path of social integration. It is neither a gift nor a privilege to others. We are at the opposite of the concept which was expressed by the then Minister of Justice, Mr Athanasios, who said "the citizenship is no one's right, it is in the State's power to grant it to people who fulfil the necessary conditions". We're on the reverse. To us, the performance of citizenship is a self-evident obligation of the Greek state and we legislate for self-evident. You know there are some problems that life solves and we should have solved before life solved. This problem has been solved in the shrouds, where students sit and learn the letters together at the Greek school. I would like to remind you, however, that these too were not so self-evident in the recent past. I say this, to remember that we have arrived here, to remember what deadlock, political and social, it can lead to a intolerance and xenophobic rhetoric and, above all, when it is translated into a policy that is applied. Remember what it means to the entity of a child, a young man, to depend on an ignorant and short-sighted many times patrioticism, to depend on racial considerations, to be determined by contempt for any other people and exquisite pride of every Greek - "national". We shall remember these a little today and let us not like many colleagues. We will refer to Law 3838/2010, which tried to put an end to the hostage of thousands of children who moved in a progressive direction, and that is why SYRIZA supported him. But what were the results from the application of this law until it was suspended? Forty thousand people were demanded and acquired about thirteen thousand five hundred. This is the terrible figure then invoked by the xenophobians and, in their view, would alter the composition of the schools, the Army and, in general, the Greek society! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I'll be done soon. This law, therefore, was "frozen" by the Prime Minister's personal mandate before the cancellation decision of the Council of State was even published. Two months before the decision was published and while the papers of hundreds of children were ready, then the Minister of Justice, Mr. Athanasios, "frozen" the process, leaving their children and families at a time. This, Mr Georgioda, was self-regulatory. That was the authoritarian and not the bill, as you described it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u275	I didn't say that, I didn't say that word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u276	Also, the then Prime Minister - and others reminded of it - welcomed then Giannis Antetokounbo who had just been selected for the fifteenth of NBA and fulfilled the conditions with this law to take the Greek citizenship, but this had also expired in gloriously, when the law was suspended. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I also remember at that time that the Greek Union for Human Rights noted that they also celebrated Yiannis, who if he was not a talented basketball player, would never think that he deserves to be a Greek. And these, ladies and gentlemen, were no random moves. At that time, there was an even more right-wing New Democracy policy, aimed at raising votes from the extreme right-wing patriotic audience with its own, say, electoral clientele. And it wasn't an isolated move. Other moves have been made - I will not repeat them - as in the amendment that has been tabled for the Security Body, that the genus must be clean, and so on. Of course, at that time, this was also supported by a large part of the media, throwing enough water into the mill of social automation. Today we do not have the same debate. We have a relocation that is pleasant, because it shifts the issue to'substantial terms' rather than 'if we should'. This is an important development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So this draft law on the performance of Greek citizenship, the integration of the two European Union directives and the changes to the provisions of the Immigration Code, is a good contribution to protecting children so that they can live safely and with dignity in the country that they feel as their homeland, to stop hard work, to strengthen social cohesion and mutual respect. For those who insist on a xenophobic rhetoric, I don't think we have much to say. I'll be done in seconds, Mr. President. I just want to say one more thing. Those who try occasionally to abuse Greek history and culture are rampant with their attitude - I hope not to return - the ethos, history and traditions of the entire Greek people. I call on those who have decided or have reserved for this bill to support it. Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for the time-tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, my colleague. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was going to start differently, but I will be caught by the last mention of Ms. Gerovasilis of ancient Greek culture, Greek culture, etc. So listen, because these matters are probably not well-known and you are being deliberately distorted by the Left, as in all of them. In ancient Athens, they had faced exactly the same problem we are discussing today, exactly the same. What happened? Ancient Athens had a small population of thirty - forty thousand people, in which the citizens who participated in the church of the municipality were about ten thousand. However, when Athens succeeded and became world power, the population grew and reached about three hundred thousand. A lot of people came to Athens, who were called housewives, and they even paid the corresponding tax, the house. The following question was therefore raised. Now that the population has grown, will we give these shareholders who are participating, paid and taxed, what we call citizenship today? So, will these new fellow citizens enter the church of the city of Athens, the democracy we all admire? We know the answer because Aristotle rescued it in the work of the "Athens State". So there it mentions the law recommended by Pericles - the leader of the democratic portion - in the then church of the municipality, leading citizens of which they were - and voted for it - some unknown people obviously like Socrates, Euripides, Sophocles, Aeschylus and other similar titans of the spirit. I guess you don't call them fascists. So what did Pericles propose then? Until then, to ancient Athens to become an Athenian citizen, Minister, - since you like ancient Greece - you should only have a father of Athenian. Only Father Athenian! In other words, as soon as a child was born by a father of Athenian, he and a witness who had, went to the register and said: "This child that the lady gave birth is mine." And this child was written in the registers of the familiar tribe, and when he arrived in his eighteen years and fulfilled his military obligations, he swore to the holy ones and became an Athenian citizen. So when the Athenians arrived exactly in the same dilemma that we are today, the Democrat Pericles changed the law and the new law that was then introduced and voted in favour of the church of the municipality, is known in history as “substantial”. The “holy” is written with little yachts and shredded. It's a double number. In other words, you're going to have to be a democrat Pericles, to become an Athenian citizen, not only have you a father of Athenian who has been valid until then, but also a mother of Athenians. So from now on, it's gonna be harder to become an Athenian citizen than before. Why did the ancient Athenians do this? Because they said. They all want to come to Athens and live because they like our state? I'd love to. But we're in charge. Why are we in charge? Because we didn't go to their own town. They came to our town. Why did they come to our town? Because we were wiser, we were smarter, we were better and we built a better state, which they envy and want to live with us. After choosing themselves, then, to come live with us - Pericles said - they entrust us with their governance. And so after 453 BC. that the particular law was passed in ancient Athens could no longer be an Athenian citizen someone who was not with both Athenians' parents. So, cocktails, leave ancient Greece behind. It doesn't take you. What you are now saying is communist - aristocratically, in the logic of internationalism and that there are no nations and we are all the same and we do not like borders, and we are all children of the same planet and that. The ones with ancient Greece have nothing to do with them. It's yours to enjoy them. Please leave ancient Greece from the outside. Let's go a little while now and give Mr. Poppa a brief answer. Of course, I don't see him here right now. Who told you that I've changed what I'm saying? Did you hear Mr. Voridis change what he says? I didn't understand the point of criticism. What I was saying at the time, exactly the same according to antenna, I'm signing them today. I don't even change a party. But be careful, because you probably twisted reality. The new Republic then - I was in LAOS - voted against the 'Ragosi law'. He didn't vote for him. We may have had a difference in style but now we have a difference in style with many New Democracy colleagues. I'm more intense. To the political substance, did New Democracy then vote for the 'Ragon Law' and I did not know that? He voted against him! And later Antonis Samaras as Prime Minister, when the relevant decision of the Council of State came out - if you remember - and then SYRIZA was accused of, "frozen" the law at the same time at noon. At 10.00 a.m., the decision of the Council of State was made and at 12.00 a.m. was issued circular by the Prime Minister's office and the relevant law was frozen. What, then, is the charge for New Democracy? The New Democracy and the Opposition voted against and did not apply it as a government. So why ruin our hearts? Let's go to the ANLEs now. Don't laugh, Mr. Damabilit, it's very serious. Because you weren't here in the previous composition. Samaras has just been elected to the government with Venizelos and Kuveli at the time. It is not even the first week, ten days had passed and Mr. Kammenos held a press conference here in Parliament. On the right, who do you think, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos and Mr. Voutsi, it was? I'll shock you. Your colleague, Minister Terrence Quick. Next door! You know the explanatory statement. To abolish the Ragosi law, that it is internationalist, that it abolishes the concept of the nation, etc. Even here in Parliament, they tabled their proposal for a law, which was the complete abolition of the Ragosi law. Watch out now where the problem is. Or Mr. Tsipras and the SYRIZA government calculate Mr. Kammen as a co-pilot and respect him or not. If he is counted and respected, this bill should not have been filed. Let's go to our own period of government. We wanted to abolish the Ragosi law. PASOK wanted to maintain the Ragosi law. What's the result? There has never been a relevant legislative initiative in this House. What for? Because the two parties we co-governed, we didn't agree. Obviously, we could pass the Ragonism Act by votes then of the ANELs, for example. But when you have a government partner, you don't only have him to share a chair and enjoy it, so you can get his votes in the House and pass bills that you want. You're showing him a respect. This is called the understanding of government partners. Your President said so very well, Mr. Damavonitis, with his election spot on the trains, if you remember, where Panos came from, saying, "Did you understand Alexis?" So many voted then Kammenos, thinking that if Tsipras goes to bring a bill like today, he goes out to take the train off the rails, that is, Panos Kammenos will appear and tell him "Alexia, here you are wrong" and he would put the train well on the rails, that is, he would withdraw the bill. This is not what happened. Here Mr Alexis Tsipras, to be fair and honest, wrote Mr Panos Kammenos to the oldest of his shoes, and while Mr Kammenos's negative position was known and expressed, so he counts on him, so he thinks of him and so respects him for bringing the bill to Parliament. Here you went to make a political deception, a political trick. Your party had done so in the bill on the mosque in Athens, the Botanic. So, what did you go to do? Watch what you've been doing. Of course, we got you now, and that's not gonna happen. You went to say, "We do not vote for the bill" - so your voters will be pleased that Panos Kammenos, the good boy, will vote against the bill - but that is what you do with certainty that Kammenos will not lose the chair of the Minister of Defence, who is so fond of it, because the bill will pass by votes of PASOK and of the River. So, Kammenos will tell your people "I voted against it", the bill will pass, so SYRIZA will be happy and Kammenos will be Minister of National Defence, who so much likes it. No, Mr Damabiti - and don't laugh at all - that didn't come out of you, because we now have an expressed political position. The New Democracy says 'no', you say 'no', PASOK says 'no', if you say 'no' - it says 'no', if you say 'no' - Potami says 'no', if you say 'no', the JRC says 'no', the Golden Dawn says 'no'. So, how many does he have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u279	It does not say 'no' the JRC. It says 'the present'. Where did you get that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u280	'Paris'. Same thing. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u281	That's more than that. He doesn't vote against.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u282	The ‘yes’ are counted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u283	"Come here", you guys! I'm sorry, "Hey, here." So, what's going on? Where's the one's one hundred-five-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-deposit? There isn't. If you tell me that you'll let the bill pass with the KKE's "residents" because it drops fifty-one and goes below, it has an interest. That's what we're going back to the spot a little bit. So the Kammenos with the KKC is doing the SYRIZA's favor. Let's see what Panos Kammenos will do. Because, obviously, this bill is not any bill. As the Explanatory Report of ANELs rightly wrote then, this bill has to do with the very existence of the Greek nation. That's what you said then, and I imagine that Panos Kammenos, this worthy boy, the survival and existence of the Greek nation, has it above being the Minister of Defense. I can't imagine the backwards. So we're gonna count here now and see what happens and who's for the chair and who's for the ideas. And we haven't reached the memorandum yet. Let's get to the memorial, let's see the worst! Mrs. Gerovazis made a substantial misplaced position. In the figures you are not strong - not you personally, but your whole party - and it makes sense not to be strong, because you are left and live in the world of Utopia. You should know that the right-wing difference is that. The Left, lives in the fantasy world, always discusses what would be the case. The Right, that is, we live in the real world and look to see what can be done. Let's go see the numbers that are of the real world. When you asked Samara to have a primary surplus of 3%, that is to say to raise 5.4 billion to remove the debt - 5.4 billion would take off the debt by 3% of the primary surplus - we were asked for measures of one and a half billion. We sent the famous e-mail Hardouvelis of 800 and told them that if you don't get what we're telling you, in June we'll get the other 700, while they said "we want one and a half billion". We didn't find them. The rest is history. But they asked us for a billion and a half. So what were they saying? That we alone brought together about four billion. Now with you, with the target of 1%, they're asking you to raise 1,8 billion euros. We were asked for EUR 5.4 billion, you EUR 1.8 billion. In other words, we have more than EUR 3.6 billion in our debt, as long as the target falls. In other words, we will have to borrow EUR 3.6 billion from somewhere to cover the debt that we lack. They are not telling you now that you have received EUR 3.6 billion, minus EUR 1.5 billion, and you are taking further EUR 2.1 billion. That's not what they're telling you. What's your name? Take 4 billion euros now. Watch out, to raise EUR 3.6 billion less, you are asked for EUR 3 billion more per year. Funny? Not at all. No one's after you, as you think, no conspiracy exists. Simplifiedly, you are completely incompetent, because since the day you ruled, the Greek economy that went with 3% growth in 2015, which is why she was primarily collecting the missing money, has returned to minus 2% recession. So now you're starting your starting point from behind, because you don't know how to rule. For me that makes sense, and I knew it beforehand that you didn't know. Just, our voters did not know it and were confused on 25 January. But that's what happens. Therefore, you have managed to have more and more. All these figures I have said are without today's proposals. I have also seen Mr Voutsi before, because, you know, the biggest thing about today's debate is that we are doing it in vacant fashion. In other words, this is where the ancient Greek proverb - since we started the proverbs with the ancient Greeks - "our houses enslaved, we perpetuate." This is where the planet burns down for Greece, the Prime Minister has gone and demanded another EUR 7 billion in his head - he is asked for EUR 3 billion, plus EUR 4 billion equivalent, so EUR 8 billion plus EUR 7 billion makes us EUR 15 billion - and here we are discussing whether citizenship in children will be with Municipality 1 or with Nine Years. It is an important issue, but it is not the day that we do not know whether the Greek state will operate next week. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here, in other words, there is an element of political, total lack of relation to the reality on the part of SYRIZA. Now, one would expect all the institutions of the state to deal with how to save our state. And here we are talking about SYRIZA's ideas! So put down the numbers. Sea you've done it! For people to know, while you continue this so-called heroic negotiation, I have calculated that your heroic negotiation costs us 50 to 70 million euros a day. So much we pay to see Barofalis move on to the planet with his shirts out and say "wow"! It's a little expensive. I don't know, it seems a little expensive. Sea you've done it! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] Look out, Mr. Voutsi. I heard you before. It's not your fault or any conspiracy there is. The fact that the Greek economy goes with minus 2% is your result. You did it. I am going to set an example - and that is what I am going to close - of how you are now doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u284	Mr Colleague, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u285	I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. Mr Kourublis comes to this bill and submits this amendment. I would like to see whether it will be discussed, because it is a long time ago and the President said that late amendments to unrelated bills will not be accepted. I expect to see what the President will say on the point of order. But I won't stay on the point of order. So Mr Kourublis says that the hospital administrations must change, and not least. Everyone knows they're going to court, they're going to be vindicated, and they're going to get their allowances, because you can't change the human relationship with a law retrospectively harmful to him. That can't be. Therefore, all of these will be paid in full by the Greek courts, as there is a well-established case law of the Ice Bay for this. But now listen to what the reasoning is. It says: "... on the other hand, the malfunctioning and jeopardising the protection of the rights of the health of the citizens, due to the failure of the governors to carry out their duties." [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] Firstly, if I were commander, I would also have had a suit for slandering defamation to Mr Kurublis, Mr Xanthos and to those ministers who sign the amendment. I would sue you to pay, because this is where you harm the honor and the reputation of people. It's your fault, if the hospitals are running, why in the first quarter, instead of 628 million euros, have you given them 43 million euros? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] Take care, ladies and gentlemen, of the numbers. The poor Memorandum Government with bad Georgiadis, the first quarter of last year, gave public hospitals 628 million euros. Ms. Gerovasili was denounced by the name of Georgiad to be underfinanced. The good Kurublis of the Government of Social Rescue, during the same period in 2015, gave 43m euros of 628m euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u286	Colleague, you've reached sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u287	I shall conclude, Mr President. Now, Mrs Gerovasili strangely does not see them being underfunded. He sees the hospitals fine. But come on, she's not fine! And who's Mr. Kurublis shooting at? To the governors. How did he do that? This is what I shall close, Mr President. I'm dedicating it to you. I show it to the camera, and I show it to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u288	Mr Colleague, however, you must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u289	I'm hanging up. Today, because of the Katorugalos law, all the juror doctors who had been caught in a briefcase are returning to public hospitals. All the doctors who had taken a bag, today took a job in public hospitals, because Mr. Katrugalos said that those who have been out on a fair holiday automatically return. And so, if you know any doctors in your area who got caught in a briefcase, you can find him in hospitals today, he got a job because of the Katrugalo Law. I also submit the relevant reports in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And on this particular day...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Comrade, you're in seventeen minutes. Respect the following ones, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u291	... Mr. Kurublis found the opportunity to table the amendment for the governors of the ERC. Well, it goes a lot with SYRIZA's hypocrisy! Hey, it's too much! Even the bags were cleared. Let me see what else you do and who you blame today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much, my colleague. The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis speaks for twelve minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little attention to time, because there are too many colleagues here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u293	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, Mr. Voutsi wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u295	Mr. President, when will you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u296	I didn't hear you. What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u297	As far as we are aware, two parliamentary representatives would speak, then some speakers and then again parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u298	Well, well!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u299	That's what we were told.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u300	That's exactly what's happening now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u301	It's not exactly what it is, but anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u302	They speak of two parliamentary representatives now, followed by other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u303	Wrong briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u304	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u305	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u306	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u307	Perhaps after Mr Pafile, to become the two, I should like to take the dentistry for five minutes, to refer to the policies that Mr Georgiadis has just said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u308	All right, Minister. It is simply a long list of your colleagues and they will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u309	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u310	And that doesn't help dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u311	All right, let me talk for three minutes after Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u312	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u313	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u315	I'm not going, Mr. Georgiadis, to ancient Athens. History has many sides. It will be interesting once to discuss history on these issues, but we will be going to today. Immigration, then. That's a big deal. Tens of millions of desperate. What's the cause? Because of course Imigration to history has always existed. Today the explosion of the migratory current, especially in our region, is linked? Why is the world leaving? First, he's leaving for wars. Because, you know, the one who's sure he'll be killed in his country would risk even 10% of him leaving to get away. Right? Who's firing out the wars? What are you crying about in here? On the one hand you support the wars of the European Union and NATO and you say 'Have the European Union and NATO!', you first went to Libya, as they asked you to, and you are now crying about the results. Isn't that the reality? You come and say now "how many Greece fits", the moment you participate, you raise both hands and you vote and give everything to both the European Union and NATO, in order to wage wars that people have a natural consequence of leaving to save their lives. Hypocrisy! And here all political forces must be judged, by what attitude they are holding on to it. And here there is no "you know, it's reality". Reality exists, but you're actually struggling to overthrow it and change it. Secondly, the robbery exploitation by multinationals and local capital. Here there are heavens in terms of rich production sources, from the point of view of agricultural production and other natural wells, and the world is fasting. Why? Because foreign multinationals and local bourgeoisie are taking advantage of them. What position do you take on this? You're with the capitalist system. Because that's the capitalist system. Therefore, every political force must be judged. So, fighting to overthrow this barbaric system, the imperialist system, capitalism itself, we say that workers must stay in their countries, fight to overthrow this barbaric system and take power in their hands. But you can't force that, and you have the migration flows. And from there on - I will say after all - the great ideological differences are beginning. And here you see the darkness in his majesty. Foreigners are good when they work. They're good, when they're produced, when we pay them half a lot. Then they're good! But when they claim, they are not! So, here the separation is neither in the race nor in the blood nor in the nationality nor nothing. The fascists talk about blood. What blood are you talking about? Are you serious? Are we talking about blood in 2015? And say something, 'cause I promised to say it. In the 'Salaspiris' camp outside Riga, hundreds of thousands of people died. They were murdered. They left them in the cold, at minus 40 degrees. Amongst these were seven thousand children, who the local partners of the Germans - why the Germans left - sent them to death, making them every day a blood transfusion and taking them to the German hospitals for the Germans' wounded on the east front. Then the blood didn't play a part. That's darkness, Maurilla! Who can say that today? Only those who represent the nationalists, but believe in this Hitler theory of the upper tribe. So what is the European Union's policy? For I have heard Mr Voutsi on a point of order, on a point of order. That's the way it is. It is the European Union that wages wars and creates all this. But you say that this European Union is a one-way road. And you're saying it's broken. It's not broken. That's the kind of thing it's always been. Just changed circumstances and became more aggressive. It's over. Therefore, the tears - I do not want to say that they are crocodiles - have no practical value when you tell the people that those who do these, these and these, are the only way we can go. Syria. Millions of Syrians. Why? Who supported ISIS? Who sends paid mercenaries? Isn't the European Union? Aren't they the United States of America? Isn't it the Qatar with which we make nice deals? Isn't Saudi Arabia? They're all your allies, Mr. Georgiades. These are your allies! They created the problem in Syria against Assad - supposedly - and, if so, the results of darkness! Second repetition of history, as with the Taliban. You don't talk about them. So what should we do? Machine guns? What? Depth? What? So, in order for the protest to be practical in all of this, it depends on what policy you follow. You are either disciplined or you say 'I am not disciplined, I am leaving and going elsewhere'. The same happens with Dublin II. When Dublin II came to the European Parliament, only we said 'against' and all we were accused of late. They told us we didn't see the new reality. That is what we were told when we said it would pose a huge suffocation problem in Greece and that it is unacceptable. And today you are all coming, and despite the fact that you are coming, you do not have a question of abolishing, even with an indiscipline beyond the individual things that are being done. European Union policy, he says. Listen to who your partners are, not our partners! There was a debate in the European Parliament and a directive on smart minds from third countries. This is a monument! That said, therefore, that we are going to import smart minds into the European Union, but under no circumstances will they be rewarded the same as Europeans, even if - I am saying - they are better. This is the European Union! You swear to her, you are all negotiating with her, and you invite them to submit to them today, instead of saying 'it's enough', 'the end', 'that's what you cannot do'. And what do you want, Mr. Voutsi? Politics? Are you asking the European Union for a philanthropic policy? So it's like you're saying now that you're making capitalism fair! You'll make him dismantle man's exploitation by man, because war is the extension of politics by other means. It's a war every day. Just when it comes to a dead end, there is a war on the sharing and redistribution of markets. I do not want to comment on the positions of the Independent Greeks, which are rather similar to another part of Parliament. We therefore vote'residents' in the bill. Because we are voting 'at present', we have to make it clear. Our 'present' has nothing to do with the rest. We are voting 'at present', firstly, on the two European Directives, which exist and are incorporated. Looks like you can't help it here. Despite the proposals we have made, you have not accepted them, because you have a flag of the European Union. Specific proposals have been put forward which are not revolutionary. They're democratic. That is how I will say it, not to say civic democracy. It's some changes that most people agree to, but you don't dare do that. Secondly, we also want to raise two issues with the Minister. So it says that there is a risk control. We agree. For serious criminals, for example, it is theft, robbery, etc., we agree. The'resistance and slandering defamation and solidarity' why don't you take it off? We suggested it to you. What's wrong with you? You know in this category workers were tried by a Greek court, because they wrote that employers are taking advantage of the workers. Secondly, in matters of naturalisation, they must agree, he says, with the specific economic and political system. What's that? Social certificate? I mean, someone who doesn't like it, he's here, of course, he can't do it or he wants to change it. What's this? Why don't you take this off? I'm writing a few things. Finally, to talk about the rest, there is also the issue of both directives. Giorgos Lamproulis spoke in detail. On the subject of seasonal workers, we have told you a number of arguments. But can the employer not pay and pay for it? How do you accept this thing? I'm not saying now ideologically and so on, okay, let's talk about it. Just, practically. He's bringing a complaint from a worker, doesn't pay them, and they don't find their point. They find their trouble from the top! Why do you accept that? Because it is the European directive. Why don't you change it? We're waiting. You still have time. If you want to dare, you can change it. On citizenship, we have said what the best solution is. That has a condition, though. To have all rights. Our position is that they should finally be acquired when they are grown up. On what condition? That he's got all the rights since he was born. We understand that this is not the case. However, because the draft law, with Article 1, gives more opportunity to us, we will vote on Article 1 and we shall formally say so. Because unlike you, we do not have commitments of another kind for the remarks I made earlier. You do not accept anything that can go a little further than the European Union. Now let's go to news. We have a disputed deal. We say he'll be gluttony for the people, for the people's family. Why? Because whatever you say, new measures are added to the existing ones. And here's no alchemy. There are already barbaric measures from previous governments and from previous memoranda. Yes or no? Do you abolish them? Oh, no. Are you bringing in new ones? Yeah. How much is it? Eight billion. I'll say below. So you say eight billion, but the four of them will be paid for. I'll comment on that. The fours aren't new? Plus, isn't it anti-grass measures? But well, are you kidding people that there will be no reductions in wages and pensions? In other words, you and the New Democracy, because they would do the same - I'll say later - and if they call now and let them rejoice. Won't the indirect taxes increase? In practice, when indirect taxes are increased, will VAT not objectively reduce the purchasing power of workers? It'll be reduced. Isn't the wage cut? When the wage contributions increase, the pensions, will not it be reduced? It'll be reduced. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me the dentistry, 'cause I'll leave later. I have an obligation. You say 'we carry the burdens to the highest layers'. Is it true that you're transferring them to the highest layers? Let's see. For the record, let's see. Do you abolish any tax exemption from these scandalous things all over the past few years? Have you abolished any of the fifty-seven shipowners, for example, who say they give 15 million - and the Prime Minister said it - while immigrants give so much? None. Do you abolish all the privileges of developmental and all the other laws? Oh, no. What are you doing? You're making an emergency contribution. You know, this has not been the first time, it has also been done by the government of Simitis, in a period of development, who has also raised the rate of taxation and has also made an extraordinary contribution. So it's a drop in the ocean. What's the reality? That these will pass on to the workers themselves and most importantly, that they will be doubled and triple from the various development packages. That is why BSE and the others are saying that the agreement is positive. They are the 35 billion that are expected from the so-called Juncker package, plus all the rest of the public investment programme. Therefore, do not say that they are socially fair, because at a stage and temporarily - while the anti-grassroots are permanent - you say that you are also hitting big capital. We therefore call 'no' to the agreement. The people must block this agreement with mobilisation. No waiting. Everyone on the street, the trade unions, everyone with requests to abolish the memorials, recover the losses. Climbing? That's what you were saying in the election, wasn't it? You, where are you today's government, didn't you say that? ‘Repeal of Memorandums, Recovery of Loss’. Now? What do you think? 'Earthy but honest agreement'. Painful for who? For the people. You're, like, in the same line. Honestly, for who? For the European Union, creditors, loan sharks, scratches and all that you have said? Who is she honorable for, if you're bringing in new measures? In fact, the worst part is that you load it to the people. You say the people don't want the break. That's like the theory of the cat. On the one hand, you tell him that there is no other way out of the European Union - so we cannot go to break - and on the other hand, you say that the people do not want to break. You tell him about the rupture? Are you telling him 'outside the European Union'? Oh, no. That's all you've been doing for years. And in demonstrations, the common basis of the demonstrations made by the European bloc - you and New Democracy - is there. The new government agreement but within the European Union is said to be 'euro-surplus', as well as the other powers. In fact, you call on the people to submit to this barbarity. What else should the Greek people see? We tell him not to be afraid but to have confidence in his powers. Greece is a rich country. The Greek people and the workers are educated. He's got a geostrategic position. He works, he produces and others steal his wealth. It can go into a rupture, overthrow, outside the European Union, to take wealth into his hands. He's gonna get wet, but he's gonna get wet for him, not for the big monopolies. And if you want, to appeal to SYRIZA - not the Government - the biggest charge we have against you is that you are stirring up the radicalism of the Greek people and offering service to the system. When 30% today, with all these conditions, terrorism, propaganda tells us to leave the European Union, you say to him: 'There is no such way. You will stay and you will be well." Well, actually, that's what you're doing. You trap people in the system itself. As for the other parties, I see many joys and criticisms about SYRIZA. We did so in an election. What do the other parties say? 'We want an overall sustainable agreement, which gives a solution to the Greek problem'. No solution will give. The road to new blackmail will hardly be opened in the next few months, because the situation of Members of Parliament, regardless of what everyone says, is bad in the Eurozone. Contrasts are to the fullest extent intensified. The crisis is no more than that. The government is involved in these contradictions. Until the incredible happened: no government after 1974, nor New Democracy, mixed, etc., dared to give a new basis. And you come and say "new NATO base in Karpathos". You repeat the Italians, which no Italian government after 1970 dared to extend the Vicensa base and which was extended by the Prodi government, with the two so-called communist parties in Italy. So proud and cruel negotiation is a myth for us. Why, when you accept the principles of the European Union, when you accept the debt as a whole, when you accept the euro pact and others worse that come - such as economic governance and what you decide on Thursday and are shaded here under the Greek problem, which makes sense - when you accept all this, what do you expect? You said Europe was changing. We said it's changing and getting worse. Who was right, us or you? You have produced illusions to the Greek people that Europe is changing and that with a better negotiation you will solve the problem. Isn't that what you said? 'The hope is coming'. What hope? Don't you see them? And you're glad, why does SYRIZA fail? But the same line is moving. And if you were...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u316	Not at all. We're paying for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u317	There is talk of e-mail Hardouvelis. Hardouvel's e-mail would be until June and then the great 'packet' would come - not to use any other word - and all together at all costs in the European Union. Listen, to make it clear: it is the European Union. When you say yes, you accept the one that is there and not something that you might imagine. And she's not going to change. The whole story shows it. Otherwise, outside the European Union with popular power, with the world having power, with unilateral debt write-offs. This break - and not a break -'monkey' - needs the Greek people and we invite them to have confidence. Things change. One is the path of enslavement, and the other is the path of real dignity, which means that he who produces wealth, he owns the economy, designs it for the benefit of the people and not for the benefit of the monopolies. That is why we call on the people to open the way, to join the JRC in spite of the disagreements it may have, to join the class folk movement, to build a great popular alliance that can be powerful, powerful. It is fearful and it can open roads to the people themselves rather than to those who hold power, that is, monopolies and capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u319	I will not go into Mr Georgiades' apologetics in relation to his own term of office and policy - it is not personal - followed by previous coexistence in the field of health, a policy which we very well remember that within a few days he has carried millions of unprescribed medicines to start the process of gifts and the corresponding requirements of lenders to trade, or a policy that has led to appalling hospital gaps, dissolution and closure of hospitals and a dramatic situation. A week ago, as we all know, the Minister for Health was not enough in the four and a half thousand appointments, which our government promotes in these difficult conditions for the area of health, and, as we all know, the number is too little, it was requested and demanded with a special trip and with discussions in the European Union, that the necessary 10 to 12 000 posts be excluded and that there should be at least ten to 12 000 posts for the staff of hospitals. Nor will we refer to the five-year-old who no longer exists in a number of other measures and, of course, to the hundreds of millions who have been given this time in which the hospitals actually operate. Leave that, it's a special conversation. I should like to mention - and this is why I have taken the floor, Mr President - something which I am surprised to see from the parliamentary representative of the Vice-President. Today, at this time, there has been an extremely revealing, complete advocacy to the unacceptable cynical and anti-popular demands of lenders who have been at this moment since this morning - and yesterday and yesterday - come before our country. He did not find a word, as they had not found in the previous period, although in the intervening period the Chief of New Democracy had made some moves, some statements. Today, then, at the same time that in the Italian Parliament Mr Renci was even openly quoted saying that there are countries and blocs in the European Union who want our country outside Europe and are pushing for this to happen, Mr Georgiadis has not found a word to say about the unacceptable demands of the lenders' partners and about the unacceptable situation that has been created for five months in our country. EUR 6.1 billion was granted to debts in these five months, when the country for ten and half months has not taken a euro from what we own. I am not saying from the promises, I am not saying on the basis of the programme and the memorandum you signed, but money and billions which were due or which were due to the Greek budget and you know it very well: 1, 2, 1, 9 and more. So we have reached this point through an unacceptable policy of tightening up, suffocating, trying to get to our country. The government with the consent and support of the Greek people of all shades, I would say, strongly resists and expresses this popular will that the Greek people do not bend their heads and do not continue to this curse to which certain forces in the strategic plan, the so-called time out, for which they want to become a special economic zone for the whole Balkan region with 250 and 300 euros of money and low-performance services for tourism, in this army, which, of course, has something to do with their general opposition to the architecture of the European Union. There is a tough, tough confrontation, a conflict. The Greek people are also bleeding over these five months, but they know very well - because they see and how this government governs - that they are sacrifices that they are really with their consent, to reach an honest and real negotiation and an agreement that will open up development, investment and other roads for our country. So right now, it's been culminated for a pluralistic time, I'd say. In view of the end of the programme on 30 June, there is a particular intensity. We all understand the consequences of this conflict. Does the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative come for eighteen minutes and whistle the government that he is unilaterally responsible for the pressure in which the country, our people, is located, in the face of the debates in Brussels? I find it absolutely unacceptable. And at best I would like Mr Georgiadis to charge this personally and not the entire New Democracy party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Georgiadis, let's get to know something. I understand there have been reports of your face. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u322	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u323	The latter is purely personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u324	On the other hand, I would ask that we reach agreement on an elementary contact with reality. We are discussing the Legislation on citizenship at a time when other very serious issues are on the table. If we start now the political confrontation of the arguments, Mr Georgiadis, the Minister will return. Mr Panayotaros expects the Parliamentary representatives to end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u325	I want two minutes. The House is a living thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u326	We have seven parties in two Parliamentary Representatives each, it makes us fourteen. Talk to no Member of Parliament, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u327	He referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u328	Please wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u329	First of all, Minister, as far as these levedikas are concerned, I read Mr Tsipras's letter. I translate it directly for reasons of time: I would like to inform you that the Greek Government's response to the demands of the troika, to the institutions as you say them, to cover the financial gap of 2015 and 2016 - I read it in English because it is of interest - 'has been absolute and complete', that is to say, it has become an absolute and complete one. Your compliance, with the signature of Alexis Tsipras in the Troika's demands, was absolute and complete. So, after you have sent a letter with your signature that your compliance with the troika is absolute and complete, I would ask that the old antimonetary agenda begin to leave slowly - slowly to return to reality. Second, welcome to reality. Now have you understood from Mr. Renci that there are forces in Europe that want us out of the euro? When we told you all over the past few years and said, "Put a little back and don't shout all the time, why are there powers in Europe that want to get us out" do you know what you were saying? 'No one can get us out of the euro' and 'you lie'. You've said it personally here too. Now all of a sudden, did you realize that there are such powers? I don't understand, Mr. Voutsi. When Samaras ruled and told SYRIZA "get a little back", you guys find us for german pilgrims, and now you tell us a fifth column, why don't you put your backs on that you didn't put us on? So let the tone fall a little. What did I say? To make it clear. Unfortunately, it's the reality. You've screwed up. There's no more sea. Because in relation to the money we haven't received and you said that since August we haven't taken anything, I would remind you that your Minister of Finance said we don't want that money. And the first time he went to the Eurogroup he said: 'We do not want the money. And in his signature which he put into the agreement of 23 February he said: 'We do not want the money'. So since you said three hundred times that you didn't want the money and since you accused us of becoming the country like the drug addict who waits for his dose - I say what Mr. Tsipras said before taking over the Prime Minister - now you come and say to us: 'Well, do you not see that they don't give us the money?' But since you didn't want it and after you found us when we got there, we took it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Comrade, I think your arguments have been understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u331	So, Mr. Voutsi, listen. Now we meet in the streets of the memorandum, but a memorial from which we took Greece. Because if we were in power now, Greece would have come out of the memorandum, and now with you Greece is entering a bigger, harder and longer-term memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u332	Is that a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Colleague, we are discussing the Legislation on citizenship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u334	Download the tons and start with an apology to New Democracy, but above all with a great apologies to the Greek people who you have deceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. However, you also share the difficulty of the President-in-Office of the Council. Don't push that hard...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u336	I beg your pardon, Mr President, I would like the floor for a second. With your dentistry, Mr Georgiadis, you have fully confirmed the unambiguous advocacy of the proposal of creditors, which was rejected by the Greek Government two-hour ago. Nothing else I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, before I begin to comment on what the previous speakers have said, I should remind various Greek speakers that you are born in Greece, you are not being made and you can take it. Whatever happens, that doesn't change. Mr. Georgiadis mentioned before and said "we right-wingers" referring to the New Democracy, "you left-wings" referring to SYRIZA. And we add: We Greeks, who put the economics above the memorials and the attempt by some to alter the character of this nation. You bring, gentlemen of the government, a completely unreasonable ethnic bill, which you are trying to support on completely random events, such as the law of the country, and not the law of blood which for thousands of years has been the stylist, the protector of our nation in all its difficult - and not just - moments. You are using in a completely arbitrary way your own theories and vines in order to transform these philosophies from which you draw completely irrational and wrong conclusions. We have heard during the consultations in committee, but also today in plenary by the Minister of State, that these children have genuine ties with Greece and that these children have been incorporated and that they do not follow the culture of their parents. Wrong, wrong, wrong! Your reality is fabulously feasting you with the document, which Mr. Papapas gave you, where Albanian fanatics, who serve in the Greek army "integrated" in Greek society, form with their hands the sold-out Albanian eagle, the same as some Albanian football players did, the same that some archivals did and go on to say, for very humble criteria. And really, after the end of the object that they wanted the Greek citizenship, they now take off their real self. These ties are not real at all, they are opportunity alone. Minister, you said about Ulysses Chenai. I will only tell you a word of what Odysseus Chenai has said and there are too many: "I don't feel Greek. They made me say the opposite, when I was young!” And the fact that Odysseus Chenai pertains - in or out of import - to a private university in America with a scholarship, shows that his fate is specified, regardless of whether he is a good student or not - we know how these work - and where Olysseus Chenai will end shortly. And if it's called Odysseus. Ask to see what his real little name is, let's see. I say to you that it has never been incorporated and that this whole story with the Greek flag, because the legislator, when they made this unambiguous law, should have lifted the Greek flag, did not bear in mind that millions of illegal immigrants would come in our homeland, who could also raise the Greek flag, for which they would not get a nail. We also see what is happening with the young third, fourth and fifth generations in America, in Europe, where, instead of integrating DNA - the power of blood - and they gain much more consciousness of their homeland, their grandparents and grandparents, than those who have never lived it. This shows that the DNA of the blood always prevails over any other philosophy, such as that of which you want to impose us. One more thing. If all those who want to give them Greek citizenship, to take a Greek passport, were able to choose between a Greek and a German or an English passport or an American passport, do you think that one of them would choose the Greek passport? Oh, no. So don't sell us a pair-to-tie bubble and incorporation. You said - you left, Minister - that 'we agree on the major'. Who do you agree with? You agreed between you two. If you do a referendum, you will "eat door" from the Greek people who will have not seen them in a similar way. And it seems that, because of the Golden Dawn, we will also have good developments in this bill. You said, Madam Minister, that it 'priorises children and their future'. At the expense of the future of an entire nation, the Greek. And if we are to put them in the balance, we prefer the future of the Greek nation to the future of these children. And if you want so much and you love these children, give them some civil rights, give them a credit, give them something else, not Greek citizenship. You also said - your own words - that we see that the whole bill revolves around Greek education, which is a criterion for you. They typically get into the first grade and go to the first grade, get a passport, get their parents a residence permit, and everything's fine. Really, the question of quality? Because Greek education is not doing Greeks at the moment, imagine how much more than some who are not Greek and simply participate in Greek schools. And one more thing, because a lot of talk is happening at times about Isocrates. Of course, you know, you've probably figured it out, and now you've put it on everything. For those who have read the Isocrat, what does he say in simple words? "Greeks are those of the Greeks who participate in the day-to-day education." Very strict criteria. You said that it was 'in the context of legality'. How is that possible? With the illegal entry of millions of illegal immigrants who, in the process of a monkey-dobbing by jury officers, civil servants, took papers? Is that legality? You said that you took note of the Council of State. We saw that. I will not read the decision of the Council of State because I do not have time. All you have taken into consideration are your own people, the various NGOs who are incapable of financing your own people who are in government either as Ministers or as scientific associates, etc. So is the independent authorities, and so is the communities of illegal immigrants. All you care about is to prevent - because you know that from the Council of State and this bill, if it passes, will be abolished - to Hellenize as many foreigners as possible who want to take Greek citizenship. And here they gave a little parentheses about the hand put by the Vice-President to Mr. Pappa for the breaking of the law. But this is where the entire Prime Minister was tearing up the memoirs for two years, the tearing of two cards hurt you? You said that our young people cannot take advantage of the opportunities given to them. While the thousands of Greeks who leave abroad exploit all the opportunities offered by the Greek state. You want the bill to stay and work. How? What did you bring? It's not going to work in any way. We see that in this bill, on page 4 of the explanatory statement, you are using the term 'national identity'. We see a la carte use of conditions that you despise them, you hate them. As also, you are using a la carte, as Mr Arvanitis said, the case of Israel. To apply what Israel applies in its own country to the issue of citizenship! Or you're using Putin now. You suddenly loved him. See what Russia is doing on specific issues! You spoke of the rule of law and respect for human rights. What rights, of the Greeks, who have been the illegal immigrants for decades now, has become the life of the living alibi and the memorials? You spoke of a residence permit for those who want to invest. Only jihadists have funds. You talked about getting citizenship for those who are victims of domestic violence. But in their societies is a daily phenomenon, is it a traditional phenomenon and we suddenly have to take it to our hump? You said they came to root. Yeah, to rip us out. Well, it won't happen to you. You spoke of universal participation and democracy in decision-making. You referred to the issue of presses. But all this doesn't work anywhere. Citizenship is nothing legal and abstract and do not confuse it with political rights. And we repeat, it applies to Article 4 of the Constitution - which you also referred to in the committee - as is the case with the issue of flag. How could the legislator know that we will have three and a half million illegal immigrants, Islamists in their overwhelming majority, in our country in the year 2015? We demand respect for the Constitution and our history. You are going along with what you are doing to legitimise and permanentise an Islamic community with what that implies. You see them every day. After all, as you said, Minister, you quite rightly said, they live here like Greeks. You said it "like Greeks", because they are not Greek and they will never be. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Excuse me for a minute. At the same time, Europe that basically repeals the Schengen Treaty, Hungary, which is not a country hosting illegal immigrants, unilaterally abolishes Dublin II and goes by saying that you live in another world. It has so far cost 11,000,000 to the European Union only relaunching. It is an honor that - as you say - Golden Dawn is the only political force that is against this bill. Because that's the real thing. And the ANELs - as many of the previous speakers have said - cannot take their line from the outside by not voting for this bill. Here you should put red lines rather than fake and pink-like lines for memorials and other stories. All of you - by closing down - are the imaginary enthusiasts of globalisation at all levels, whether as mediators of NGOs, international organisations, independent authorities, either because of your ideas or because of the personal hogs of many of you dominate the patronage. You want to eliminate values like homeland, religion, family, Orthodoxy. You are the best accomplices of the enemies of Turkey, who rubbishes her hands that are currently seeing hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who put us in and you welcome them with open arms and legalize them. And all because you hate Greece. You are very young if you think that with this bill you will change the course of history. And when you're done, Greeks are born, you can't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u339	Ladies and gentlemen, we must consult ourselves on the next hour that we are staying until 19.00 p.m. Two more colleagues will speak, Mr Metarakis and Mr Gregos. The two parliamentary representatives, Mr Kartsoulis and Mr Kokkalis, will be followed. And if the last seven minutes or eight minutes are left, Mr Mustafa will speak. We can only move on. One request, the two following Members, Mr Metarakis and Mr Gregos, to stay in the seven minute because they will not be able to speak by the Parliamentary Representatives of the other two parties. And that won't be fair. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the governance of the place requires firstly that we recognise the problems, put priorities and find solutions. In this context, I welcome the establishment of the Ministry for Migration. Indeed, it is now a ministry that it needs. But what is the main problem today? What's the big deal? Is that a matter of citizenship? Is that the major issue of immigration policy? Perhaps some colleagues in SYRIZA do. But the co-pilots of the ANELs don't believe it. And I think - as our parliamentary representative has said - there should be a common framework in the context of a codecision. But this is an internal topic that you need to see, mainly as other topics come to discussion probably in the next few days. What, then, is the major issue? The major issue is migration flows, which have spread in 2015 compared to 2014. And it is the question of the timely question that the New Democracy brings to plenary on Friday. The volume of flows is a factor that ultimately defines our citizenship policy. Because you are legislating completely differently in a country that has few flows and otherwise you have to legislate in a country that has a huge problem of illegal, irregular immigration. This is why the New Democracy also insists on the need for nine years of basic education for children who seek Greek citizenship, to prove in practice that they have ties with our country and secondly that they have reached the right age so that they can choose whether they want Greek citizenship. I would remind you that citizenship is the sovereign right of a state, it is no one's right to enter our country. It is our right to choose whether we want and when we want to grant Greek citizenship. But I must stress that at the moment there is a very big problem. Our country is the easiest destination in Europe for illegal immigrants, the safest country to pass, the most hospitable and today's bill makes it even more hospitable, while you see, Minister, that the government is currently facing huge problems in managing the humanitarian flows that exist to our country. One colleague said before SYRIZA: "But do you think that the person who is abroad makes a choice of where to go?" Of course it does, not him, but the organised circuits, the smugglers, the people we all agree in this Chamber that they are criminals, they choose to take them where they will easily, where there is no dogma of deterrents, where the government does not apply the re-propulsion agreements and these unfortunate people - because they are unfortunate people - come to our country. What does Parliament's plenary say today? SYRIZA alone, apparently without ANELs, says that "Here we will be even more hospitable, choose Greece". That is, in the end, to contribute to maximising a humanitarian crisis, while our incentive is to deal with it. You spoke of priorities and solutions. Article 13 raises a very important question about the productive model that this country must have, and so far the government has not spoken either in plenary or in practice about a productive model, but has spoken of a complete 'fresh' of the economy. We need to go beyond the limit of a memorial and an antimony. But if you want to be honest with each other, SYRIZA is an exemplary memorial party. Why? Because his own hope is to take the dose. His only plan is to sign a new deal with the lenders. It is therefore a Memorandum Party. Whether it makes a better or worse deal will appear in practice. Of course, the proposal from Tsipras speaks of multiple measures than was envisaged in 2014. Why? But because the Greek economy has been frozen, because there is no productive model, because the privatisations do not go any further, the PPPs do not go any further, the Fast track projects, those that in 2014 first after 2007 brought our country to a positive development mark, those that, in 2013 and 2014, have brought our country into a positive import-export balance, what in 2014 created clearly ninety thousand jobs, according to the "ERGAN". I'm sure they won't, but we were heading one direction. But SYRIZA is turning us back into public policy. Minister, if I could agree with you, the reality is that this government does not have the resources to make a public investment policy. So, even if we agree, which we do not agree, these resources do not exist. Rule 13 is completely unprepared in the House. It says: The public will create a company to participate in pipelines, taking the stimulus from the memorandum of cooperation signed by Greece with Russia for the Greek Stream pipeline. But why does a public company need for that? First of all, this company has no capital. It only takes 1 million euros. Therefore, he cannot participate. If we want it simply to obtain rights, namely to obtain tax rights, to obtain rights from the amount of gas that goes through Greece, to obtain better prices for our country from gas, this does not need a company, Minister, need a contract of the Greek State or use of one of the existing companies that already operate. Of course, within the article we see something unusual, that the responsibility as shareholder will not be held by the Ministry of Finance, which has it for all the companies involved in the State, but will have it by the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction. Do we just share in the components to have something for everyone to be happy about? More importantly, you are not answering what risk the Greek State assumes, what guarantees it gives as a shareholder. So how is the Greek taxpayer's pocket in danger if things go wrong? That is not what the government tells us. But you will tell me that the need is urgent and that's why he came to the bill today. If the need were urgent, you would not have provided a presidential decree setting up to take you after September or October, you would have foreseen the statute in the law, but this work was done a little roughly without a plan. And with all these companies and all these public participations we finally led to the crisis. I will say one last thing about the late Amendment No 178/67 on hospital governors. What does Mr. Kurublis say? He has the right to fire them whenever he wants, without compensation. It's a given fact that the courts will pay them compensation. Just Mr. Kourublis will say "I didn't know it, the courts are to blame, it's not my fault, and I damaged the Greek state with my choice". The most important thing is for anyone who reads the amendment to see what the repealed provision is. What are we retiring? What does this context say? It says three-year contracts and every year justifiable, the Ministry can fire them without compensation. This is the abolished provision. So if the Minister wants a commander who doesn't do his job, in this context, without compensation, he's kicking him out. Reasons! And when he's sent away, you understand, Minister, he won't be able to go to court and if he goes, he won't be justified. So here, we don't care about the cost, we're just interested in putting other parties in the hospitals, for which you're very proud, Minister, who was abolished the five-and-a-half. Maybe it's positive too. But the hospitals right now don't have a dictionary on the gauze fund. I respect for the fact that the world may not have had the five-and-a-half, but with this five-day hospital, it would take off its daily. Do you have another alternative to everyday? Because politics is not a coffee shop, politics is not a philosophical debate, it is a responsibility of action and alternatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Antony Gregos from Golden Dawn has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. I will not address the relevant Minister - I do not know her, I do not remember her name - not because she is an official of the Ministry and I am an elected Member of Parliament, but because we of the patriotic and national arch have specific positions, judgments and opinions on national issues. We have heard too much today, even for athletes, for Antetokunbo - or anyway - we have heard about some issues racially otherwise. Indeed, nature has gifted some people, such as this Antetokounbo, to run faster, to jump higher, and others in the groups that these people play to show them how to do so, their coaches, who are usually white, but I'm telling you again, they're racial issues. I do not know if you were upset by the move of Mr Pappas' parliamentary representative, who tore up the explanatory statement and you forget that others here were smuggling the memoirs against their colleagues. Let us also show the Greek people these oppressed'refugees'. Here you see them disembarked and photographed with smart phone. Here, too. These pictures will not be tabled in the Minutes, we need them together with too many others, to show them to the Greek people. It writes the bill in Article 1: "The question concerns the core of popular sovereignty, the subject of which is the Greek people, who decides on its composition". Bullshit! Shame and disgrace to confuse the Greek dispersal with illegal immigrants. Immigrants, refugees, were our grandparents who went to industrially developed countries to work, even stating permanent residence and work, and even looking at them in the teeth, and there they carried our culture. Because those who come here like illegal immigrants don't carry any cultures. You dare mention and comment on the sacred meaning of the nation and blood. You often mention the word legal immigrants. Let us not forget that Samaras opened the border, filling the country with Albanian soups, and then the rest illegally legalised every walnut so that they could collect votes. As far as residence permits are concerned, we all know how they were given and how they are given, and many have even saved too much money from these procedures. Bourdology continues in Articles 2, 3 and 4. In Article 6, it turns out that none of the Member States of the European Union really wants them, as in Article 8, which we read about passports and documents, which are obviously counterfeit and you know very well that their acquisition is estimated at around EUR 1,500. Some 5,000 euros give these poor refugees, as you say them, and another 1,500 for their fake documents. We heard some graphics that they'd want a better bill. What do you mean? Getting citizenship as soon as they get out of the inflatables? And from the Potami that illegal immigrants - he says - could be an investment. Put them on the Stock Exchange! Listen, you are causing the wrath of your own voters. We could call your bill fascist, racist, resentful, treacherous, unconstitutional and much more. But what is the government's objective with this bill? Or better, what's the evil plan of the government? It's a plan that the previous government had drawn up. Objective 1 : The economic extinction of Greek workers. The Greek people will see these and experience them in the long term. The second objective: The rapid increase in unemployment, the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises, the increase in traffic, increased crime, the dismantling of the social fabric, the dismantling of health, the dismantling of education, the dismantling of insurance funds, the dismantling of tourism, the collapse of national legislation, the cultivation of dissatisfaction and division, the Islamization of the country. And all these crimes are committed in full consciousness of the signatories and voting for the bill. That is why the political and moral condemnation of those who vote for this bill is also necessary. The above measures are certain to lead to the gradual elimination of the largest part of the Greek population in the light of the huge demographic problem. Nursing and ill minds, fans of multiculturalism are pleased today with the deposit of this bill. Of course, this bill will be the tombstone for SYRIZA, like HIFI for Juda Samara and Venizelou. We have a duty to resist the vote of this bill with massive and growing gatherings, even in the office of the relevant Minister, not only us Members, but all the Greek people, with sues, with actions. We must remember here that this Minister is not a elected Member. There is no need to lift parliamentary immunity. Anyone thinks this bill is harmful - and it's as well as you know - to go to file a lawsuit and lawsuit against her. But we must resist other measures such as the non-intake of foreign workers in shops and businesses - many shopkeepers are already doing so, not taking foreign workers into business - and with too many more. Well, let's give these invaders tomorrow to understand that Greece will not be a paradise for them, as the poachers promised them. At the same time, let us show our children the differences between the cultures of the peoples, because, as you know very well, the 'Barba-Thoma' and the Acropolis. One thing is certain: this bill - an abortion - will be abolished very soon, as will poaching. Today we are talking on behalf of the entire Greek people and not as a third political force. We collect the millions of Greeks against the government, and we prove this with a motion for a referendum, which you will of course not dare to do, knowing that for the first time you have the entire Greek people against you. The support you are proclaiming that you were lost in the vote on this illegal draft bill. Nationalist wind is blowing all over Europe. The remnants of boselvikism will be dissolved very soon. The Greek and European citizens will break the bonds, free themselves and win. The Golden Dawn People's Association after SYRIZA's election crash, whenever the elections take place, will be called upon to rule the country, whatever fighters may murder the state and the parastate, whatever the prisoners, to those who do not give the right to make a speech or to participate in an event. The Greek people will thicken our ranks. We call on the Greek people to keep the national symbol high, to give a fight for a free Greece in a free Europe. As for the SYRIZA ANEL co-government, for the first, today, calling for a referendum to unleash them and expose them. For the second, we believe that at least for this reason alone, which accepts this bill, they should give the government a shot. What if you agreed to financial measures? After this bill in a few years there will be no Greeks to implement it. We are calling for and demanding that the Minister withdraws the bill immediately, that all supporting documents issued - residence permits and even police ID cards are re-checked. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Because I am also persecuted for my ideas and for my speeches, like the other competitors, for me and for all the Greeks there are no such refugees. These are all illegal immigrants. Finally, I would remind you that in the last part of the bill there are the names of the signatories of the bill. We will make sure these names are uploaded on the Internet and you must never forget them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Potamio Mr Panagiotis Karaksoulis speaks for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u345	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u346	Something that's an obligation. You didn't do it right, but I'm sure you pointed it out. It is clear that it is government policy and collective government responsibility for any bill that comes to be passed, as is its implementation. In this sense, I find it absolutely unacceptable that the personal targeting made by the previous speaker to Mrs Christodoulopoulos, on the demand that people should go to her office to protest from tomorrow, etc. We need to be very careful about these issues if we want to keep our communication at least at public level.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u347	But that's not all. And the targeting of the signatories is also an irregularity which was outside any reasonable or parliamentary procedure. [[Noise from the Golden Dawn wing]] Mr. Cartassouli, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed the debate on this particular interest and - I would say - vitally important issue concerning citizenship, and I would say that at the conclusion of this first debate, the feelings which I am emphasizing are - to say it elegantly - ambiguously. The first question that comes to me and is rhetoric, but do I want to address it to you, too, is: Do they have toys with such matters? So they're putting up games with the issue of citizenship? Do they have toys with the question of negotiation? Potami says 'no, we don't play games'. What I want to say and I'm explaining right away. Potami said from the outset that it considers the bill on citizenship to be positive for the second generation of children and we said it in committee and our rapporteur said it here, but nonetheless it seems that some still seem to want to create impressions around the position of the river. We are glad to say that we are voting on the bill in principle. We are voting for the bill in most of its articles. We have tabled a proposal of our own in particular in the case of 1A of the bill concerning children born here. And our difference is as simple as that and I think I must repeat it, because on the other hand, the government's colleagues have also shown that they do not know exactly what our proposal is. So I will once again say it as briefly as possible. Our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is as simple as this: since the child who is born here and wants to get citizenship must prove, like anyone else, that he has an organic relationship with Greece and Hellenism, that is to say the Greek culture, what we are saying is that the child must first complete his basic education so that he can become organically into the Greek society, learn in other words and on the other hand - and this second one is strange to us, because SYRIZA colleagues are doing as if he were not listening to this - what we said is that the stay of his parents or his parent five years before the child was born in Greece, constantly have stayed in Greece, be legal and be here and then, that is what we said could be replaced by the legal residence of the parent at the time when the child goes to school and be believed when the child graduates from school should have a right to stay in the country. Question: What ensures a child's organic relationship better? Because for the kids we're talking about, if I'm not cheating. To stay his parents five years before he was born here all the time and without interruption or to take the child to school five years? What of both? We think our answer is obvious. We believe that the child will be better integrated if it goes to school and complete its basic education. I don't understand what's weird about it. In any case, even if you disagree, SYRIZA colleagues, the argument could be left there. What we have seen in the follow-up to this debate, however, is that there were other issues. I mean, it's not that simple. For example, you have referred to many times today in the debate in the committee that you have had to bring this bill into this form because there is a Council decision of State, which the Council of State did not say anything more than what I have just said, that there must be an organic relationship between the applicant and the citizen, with the Greek culture and the Greek identity. Did you have to? In other words, you don't believe this 'I don't believe it, but I do it', 'you should' or 'you know, if I could bring another bill, it would be a little different', I think that because you're government, you don't honor you. So you're not a protest movement to say a point of view, which would have the alpha or the beta gravity of your audience. Here you legislate and legislate for all these children and you legislate responsibly. So I ask you this simple: How do you imagine the application of this law when you themselves legislate, you actually say that 'I do it with a heavy heart, I didn't mean it, I don't want to do it like this'? In our view, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear when we make legislation such as this, which concerns the future of thousands of children. And these thousands of children we want to integrate into the national body, we want them to be Greek, we want them to be with us, and we think we need to be clear about this. I mentioned this as an example to say that this feeling of ambiguity is more general to me, that is, on the one hand, 'I want to, but I don't mean it like that, I meant it somehow'. I have the impression that this is not the quality of the policy that the place and moments would require at the moment, because it is precisely the case, if you notice, and what is being done and what is happening at the moment in connection with the negotiation, which is taking place and which has reached a very, very critical point. We welcomed the government's initiative to resolve this issue as well. We would like that to be clear. In other words, we would like not to have an external agreement, if I may allow the term and another internal agreement. In other words, we would like the exact same signal to be emitted both out and inwards. One of the prisoners. Secondly, we would very much like this agreement not to have been the way it is, that is, it was not an agreement which is burdensome for the economy and which is burdensome for society. I understand that the arguments you have put forward here have been presented unilaterally. In other words, you are unilaterally showing that it is the lenders who are always asking and saying to impose more and more harsh measures. Without any intent to question it, because lenders did exactly the same thing in previous years, and just the same thing they do now, I do not think that in their own view they should care about things that we ourselves should have done. Here we come to check your own efficiency and to blame you for oligopoly for the planning of policies, the planning of the negotiation and the final result. What do we mean, ladies and gentlemen? You will allow me to take the time left for me to put a little while and say the river's positions on them. I will tell you what we believe in the austerity measures, which have always been debated for years. There is a five-year debate, if, in other words, the austerity measures of alpha or beta, if what the e-mail Hardouvel or e-mail Baroufakis or the Baroufakis list or I don't know what those are better than some others, which were comparatively a little better or a little worse. We believe that this is a debate, which - I shall say quite simply - does not talk about the tampering, it does not talk about the substance of the problem. I would say that the substance of the problem without any rotation has to do with reforms. In other words, would we be in this situation today if reforms had taken place before? If, for example, the New Democracy and the PASOK, which have ruled over the past five years, had reforms taken place decisively and boldly, would we be today at this difficult time? I do not mean by that, of course, that the current government has no responsibilities, but this is another conversation that we will be doing next. I mean, the previous ones, with the thousands, promoted some reforms, reaching a result that I would say was too late and too little. There have been significant reforms and improvements in some areas, I would say very important. There has also been a marginalization of the economy, but in the face of the party interest it has been shut down and in any case it has been circumvented and we have been back to what we have known. We have, however, the new government, which has come with the will that it will come out of this policy and will propose new measures, new reforms and substantial changes that the country needs. Instead, we've seen a list of taxes - at least that's what we have as information. This list of taxes, you know, and we know, as do the entire Greek people, that they lead to the elimination of the Greek economy and the Greek society. I ask, where are the reforms? For example, it would be a reform if you decided to do some things at the beginning of governance: for example, at the Ministry of Rural Development, I read: 'Twenty eighty-one structures within the Ministry, sixty-two structures in each decentralised administration, four hundred and fifty-one public legal persons, ninety-three regional services, a structure in each municipality and five structures in each region'. Please tell me, please, about these structures, which are not just that they consume public money for their maintenance, are what they produce and then what they produce, what secondary effects they have throughout the country's course. Do we need all these structures? I say it as an example. For example, the Ministry of Health supervises three hundred and twelve public legal entities, of which - note - only a hundred seventy - six are general government bodies, sixty - three are hospitals. The rest of you can tell me what it is? Of these, the seventy-six, which no one knows exactly what they are doing, were subsidised last year with EUR 130.102.244. When are you going to deal with this? Shouldn't that be your central concern from the beginning? Aren't you, as a government, supposed to promote these major reforms which, in any case, we agree on the verbal part and arguments? Of course, this is the client state. Of course, here is the complexity, of course, here are the problems. Of course, this was built in the decades that passed by the parties that ruled. But what exactly do you do? Do you maintain it? Are you playing on it? Should I say what we've said over and over? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Why is it so lousy? And why, on the other hand, such a desire to place your own people with strict party criteria, for which you come and go, of course, reaching the current point for hospitals, which of course has made a feeling greater than all the previous ones. Because we are going to talk about people who have proved themselves off duty, who return to service on the grounds that their sentence is over. In any case, what I would like to say in conclusion is that Potami has come to the political stage, trying to do two things: on the one hand, to speak with the language of logic and, on the other, to show the path of reforms, to insist on reforms. We have said that we will support the government, and we have said from the outset that we are supporting the government in its efforts to stay within the euro. We were accused of this as kings of the king, and indeed of you, fellow government members, of being kings of the king. But when we said not to break, we meant avoiding the possibility that Greece might go into bankruptcy and in the past. You unfortunately flirt with the past. And what we want to tell you is, even at the very last moment, that you move forward, that you close the agreement and go to discuss the essentials, whether they have to do with negotiation, or have to do with the very serious issue of citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokalis speaks for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech. But I have to pick up the glove, Mr. Georgiadis. In Ancient Greek do you know what the word 'thrassos' is? Because you spoke of Ancient Greek. There is no, because the ancient Greeks were modest and humble. Do you know the synonym of the word ‘thrassos’ in modern Greek? 'Adonis Georgiadis'. For what? Because you're accusing us of being consistent. It's unbelievable! You blame us for supporting the same positions we supported in 2012. "Consequence" is a word that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u351	There's been a personal report, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u352	You'll answer because you call it halfway through, Mr. Georgiades.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u353	The President gives the floor, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u354	I didn't hear what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u355	The President will give the floor and will judge whether Mr Georgiadis will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Georgiadis, unfortunately you know half the things. First of all, it was the landlord who lived on the limits of ancient Athens and was lacking political rights. You hated it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u357	What did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u358	And there was no house.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u359	And what was the cut?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u360	You were implied before - I was not in the Chamber - for the beginning of the pleading.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u361	Since it wasn't there, what was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u362	Listen, if you tell me where the word "equity" comes from, Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u363	It was a tax. Who was paying him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u365	This debate is very interesting. Shall we make her out later, drinking coffee? Let's talk about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u366	Half the things, Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u367	It's weird to talk about a word that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u368	You even implied a constitutionalist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Red, please don't answer. We have to finish in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u370	You even became a constitutionalist. You suggested before about the principle that this government might not have it. I would refer you to the opinion of the former government partner, Mr Venizelos, on when a government loses the principle of declared. Apparently you didn't know, because if you knew, you wouldn't insinuate that. The inhabited, Mr. Georgiades. What will your party do in Article 1B, as formulated? Will she vote for it? The weakness of arguments leads to accuseing the other side. You are blaming us because we have the same position, which is unbelievable for citizenship. I'm going into the bill. Our positions on the bill were developed by the special speaker of our party, Mr Mavragans. I will concentrate on Article 1, in which a terrible misunderstanding has been made. First of all, I did not hear the word 'jobhood' here all these days. Artificially it is said that the word 'nationality' with the word 'quality' is the same. It's not exactly the same. They have the same legal consequences and citizenship and citizenship, but citizenship is related to the nation. Now, if some people mind the word 'national', we are not to blame. If there was a need, Minister, to reward immigrants, to strengthen the process of naturalisation in adults by granting citizenship, and not to prone naturalisation through the acquisition of nationality. Obviously, you are paradoxical and have forgotten the decision of the Council of State. We Members remind you that we have sworn to the Constitution. I would briefly like to give you - very briefly - seven provisions of the Constitution, which state the word 'national'. The Constitution tells us the word 'national', I do not say it, Article 1(2) and (3) of the Constitution, Article 4, 'Greeks are the qualified persons of the law', 'it is permissible to remove Greek citizenship only if someone has undertaken a service in a foreign country contrary to national interests', Article 21(1), 'the family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation', Article 18, Article 25(4). Thus, seven provisions of the Constitution have the word "national". It is not my interpretation of what the Constitutional Review Committee said in 1975, the Minutes on what it means 'national'. It is the concept that goes beyond the life-long community of people and the geographical boundaries of the Greek state. The nation refers to both past and future generations whose interests the state political principle, as defined by the principle of sustainability, is to serve under Article 24 of the Constitution. I also heard from the JRC that they were afraid of the term 'blood fair'. But the Greek legislator mentions it. We do not mention it, the law of citizenship mentions it. The Greek legislator, fully in line with the requirements of the Constitution I mentioned, established the law of citizenship, which is currently in force at the moment we are talking about. The law of citizenship speaks first of all about the law of blood, that he who has a Greek father is entitled to be Greek. By way of exception, it included provisions which established the naturalisation of adults of foreigners, with an individual judgment of a collective management body. Whoever, in other words, knows the history very well, knows the language, culture and, of course, acquires, Madam Minister, the Greek citizenship and strengthen it and make this process even simpler, the naturalisation of foreign aliens. In this regard, however, you will allow me, Minister, to say that this is a ruthless naturalization with the acquisition of citizenship, which was only after war. What you are trying to do has been done in 1913, when they were naturalized by the 1913 Act, the ratification of the peace treaty between Greece and Turkey, which provided for the administration of Greek citizenship to the residents of the former Ottoman countries who came to the sovereignty of Greece. Since then, citizenship has been acquired. I repeat that that's citizenship, that's citizenship. We agree that the process of naturalisation of an adult should be made simpler, who proves that he knows Greek history, Greek language. Does the fact that he is legal in Greece, that he is fulfilling self-evidently means rewarding him with the performance of Greek citizenship? Of course not. Therefore, it is crucial to have a genuine link, but not with the State, because the foreigner’s obligation to be lawful is self-evident. Critical is the existence of a genuine bond with the nation. That is what the recent decision of the Council of State has said. That is why these provisions directly approximate to the above provisions of the Constitution. So a word specifically characterizes this article, not perseverance, obsession. It's timeless and unconstitutional. Besides, the paradox also happens: The legislator is currently attempting to give minor citizenship, while his adult father or mother can't obtain citizenship or does not want to. Isn't it paradoxical, Minister? Is the state's legal representative? It's the parents. For the parent as provided for in Article 1, the only condition is to be legal. But you don't say anything about the parent. The parent in this regard either does not want to acquire Greek citizenship or cannot. First of all, there is no legal capacity for the minor. It runs counter to other provisions, except for the obvious unconstitutionality. The minor does not have the legal capacity to accept citizenship as attempted by this bill. I repeat, another nationality of another nationality. To make the process simpler, quicker the tests to acquire citizenship. Yes, we agree. But not citizenship. Madam Minister, I think one is the conclusion. Mr. Georgiadis accused us of being consistent. The Independent Greeks and 2012 and now they are irresistible in their views. We really don't owe no citizenship to anyone. But we owe migrants equal rights to Greek citizens. But we don't have to. I repeat, have your legal advisers - and you want to see this again - confused the concepts of citizenship and citizenship a little? Because they have exactly the same legal consequences. The conditions are different. That is why we are opposed to this bill. Finally, I will say this. Mr. Georgiadis, I will agree with Mr. Voutsi. You're the best lawyer for the lenders! They don't want anyone else. Are these the models to the Greek people, to hand over the weapons, not to make any negotiation? Say, welcome to the memorials? Are these the models, Mr. Georgiadis? Shouldn't we search our debt? Shouldn't we check if we're in debt? We give ourselves up uncomfortable? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Georgiadis, do you still want the floor? My colleague made reference to your name. In any case, with relative understanding in five minutes we have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u374	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u375	We've heard Mr. Georgiadis so many times. Whenever someone says something about him, he's taking the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u376	You are a Parliamentary Representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u377	Very vivid to see you, Mr. Diamantopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Diamantopoulos, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Georgiadis, you're answering. If you answer Mr Diamantopoulos, we will never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u380	We've read your sadness too. We shall see you at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Voutsis also spoke about us, but you did not give us the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u382	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Above all, the enthusiasm exists in Ancient Greek. I'm going over the word and I'm actually going. In Ancient Greek there is also the word hybris and your party has committed a hurricane. Who's the hybris? He promised the Greek people that if he became co-pilot, he would stop Tsipras from what your voters consider red lines. What are you doing in this bill, for which your party has submitted here to the House a bill saying that this law destroys the Greek nation? It's in your explanatory statement. These partners are writing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u383	But they don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u384	Do what you don't see. So here's what's going on now. Or this bill destroys the Greek nation as you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u385	Now we say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u386	...and if it destroys the Greek nation, obviously you cannot stay in a government that destroys the Greek nation. You can't do both. In other words, you cannot support a government that destroys the Greek nation, because then you will be accomplices to the crime of the destruction of the Greek nation. Or is it really destroying the Greek nation and your stay in the government that does this thing is treason, according to yours or you were exaggerated and lying that this bill destroys the Greek nation. So you can simply express your disagreement by voting against it. But you cannot, Mr President, have both.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Georgiadis, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u388	If you commit the hybrid...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Georgiadis, this is not an argument exchange now. Now we're doing verbal heels here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u390	As to the first...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u391	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The Minister, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, has the floor. Mr. Georgiadis, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u392	Now there is, in writing, the words 'we have fully and fully complied with the demands of the troika', with the signature of your Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u393	Please. Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u394	So since you fully and completely complied with...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u395	You said nothing about the "tamper".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u396	All right, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u397	Madam Secretary, start, or you won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u398	No one listens to you anyway. In closing today's debate, I would like to say that, despite what I will point out immediately afterwards, I believe that at least two parties will finally vote on Article 1 is a serious development for the debate that has taken place in our committees, on the authenticity of these arrangements which, in our view, regulate a great social need and have nothing to do either with obsessive or ideological intrusions that have been heard here. Secondly, I have a second point to make, namely that all the rapporteurs who have spoken in favour of keeping their arguments and disagreement at a level of seriousness, because they have actually taken part in all the meetings of the committees. Unfortunately, the rest of us have come here to take the well-known minutes of television, to raise the tone, to speak of what everyone remembers, to make opposition, to make use - in their opinion - of objections, to raise issues which are stated, to speak of an agreement that no one knows and to prejudge political developments that wish to exist. Finally, I would like to say about the Golden Dawn that I hope it does not give my name to the invasion baits, because I think they have been devastated enough to come here and beyond their convicted views to raise these issues. In any case, I am calling for a final vote on the principle of a maximum majority because, fortunately, there are no small and large issues for society. And the importance and seriousness that we attach to our opinion shows the seriousness we have as politicians. So, those who consider it to be small, let them be serious and those who consider it great too, so that we can really close our debate today with the seriousness and dignity that it deserves, so that we can move on to the debate later in Article and leave behind the exchanges that have been made, which I think are not honouring Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u401	Mr Pappa, I do not think you are questioning that I manage the process as carefully as possible. Please. You know we're done at 19:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, just a moment, please. It's personal. I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u403	Wait a minute, listen to me. A request for a roll-call vote has been tabled. This procedure has been requested by the President, and we are waiting for her to come. I'm only giving you the floor for a minute. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u404	I'm going to talk about two pounds. Firstly, to Mr Voutsi, who immediately after the completion of the speech of our Member, Mr Antony Gregos, took the floor and said a number of things. You want an answer, Mr. Voutsi. You live in Greece? You know what's going on? You talked about targeting. What targeting, Mr. Voutsi? The targeting of the Golden Dawn. Have you learned of the murderous attempts against our members and candidates? Have you heard Baltako in the known video? Have you heard Samara in the known video? The three who's coming, talking to the D.A.? Are we targeting? The ones we're targeted at? You guys are supposed to control a ministry. I just spoke to Mr. Panussi. "Argi bourgeois and saliva" at your Ministry! You do not know what is going on with regard to police protection for Members of the Golden Dawn!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u405	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u406	Let's go to Mrs. Tasia Christodoulou. Ma'am, Minister, in the years when no one's ever been here, they won't be dealing with you! No one will deal with you because your work will be cancelled, your destructive work, the first law you bring here. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] And the insults you have brought us back, dear Mrs. Tasia Christodoulopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u407	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u408	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u409	I think the threatening style does not fit in a Parliamentary room. Let history judge the bills and the opinions as you will be judged. Just you will be judged by justice, because you are referred to as a gang.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u410	And you will soon be judged by the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u411	Wait a minute, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u412	Everything that HISPIA was... [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] Give it a hand, applaud it! What HIS was about Samara will be the law for you! Tombstone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u413	That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u414	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Mustafa Mustafa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u415	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, not to consume all year round. I would simply like to refer to Rule 4 of the bill, which establishes a special committee to draw up a comprehensive draft of the Code of Nationality to be submitted to the House to cancel the procedure it says. This initiative, Minister, is very important and hopeful for the modernisation and election of the Code of Nationality and at the same time an opportunity to heal wounds, remove injustices, material and moral treatment of those affected by the abuse, deliberate applications of the articles of the Code of Greek citizenship. In particular, I am referring to Article 19, which in its abusive interpretation tens of thousands of people have lost their nationality in a moment and have become stateless. In fact, perhaps with a radical reform of the Code of Greek citizenship can be restored, first of all, these people morally, because many victims of this article have migrated to the Lord, others have drawn a new course in their lives, others are still stateless, others are abroad and others are in Greece. Because it has its specific features, these issues should be discussed at a time when this committee will be in place. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, many opinions have been heard in the criticism of the bill, opinions on citizenship, citizenship, because there is a debate on these issues. There have been estimates of the relationship between citizenship and origin, religion, cultural identity, blood, etc. There are also the estimates referred to in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. It is said specifically that Greek political community is the result of the coincidence of the confrontations of people who are integrated into a national collective. It is also stated in the explanatory statement that it forges the solidarity ties of its members on the criterion of its common will, regardless of the origin of people. With these concepts, with this political and philosophical approach to the concepts of citizenship, the citizen and the political community, I agree as a Greek citizen and for ideological reasons, but also as a Greek citizen with a different origin. I think that the lyric of becoming a citizen of a country is his involvement in the educational process, in the social life of the country where he lives, in the socio-political process. With this bill, this comes as a basic criterion for the integration of these children into our country's educational system. It is a tested method worldwide, but also from my region and for Greek citizens who have a different origin or other religion. I myself, as part of the Greek education, had the course I had in my life and is well known to you. The dominant, the main element of my entire journey was and is first and foremost the identity of Greece's citizens, regardless of my other identities, whether they are origin or religion. What has been suffered because of my diversity has been suffered as a citizen of this country and what I have earned, I have managed, I have managed, I have contributed to society, I have done it as a citizen of this country. It's the basic quality that determines my course, my attitude to life. The quality of our citizens, colleagues and fellow Members, is the bread we eat on this earth. It's our common boat in towers and bottles. It's our hope and perspective. It's the joys and sorrows that life holds us. They're our fellow humans in the difficult and easy ways of our history. We must trust people as a country with such a past and culture, because the vast majority of all kinds do not spit on the plate they eat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr. Mustafa. I think it has had a multiple symbolic value to close the first debate on the draft law on the Code of Nationality. I think Mr Mustafa's last speech should work in a number of directions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have announced that we have, by unanimous decision of this House, extended the plenary session in order to speak to more Members. We extended it by three hours and said that the meeting would be concluded this evening at 7 p.m. in order to vote at first. I am glad at least to see several and several colleagues present and present. Now the time is 19.10, at 18.45' a request for a roll-call vote was tabled in principle by twenty-five Members of the New Democracy. They're not present and you're here right now. I'll read their names, not to get a presence, just to get more complete information: "To the Bureau of the Greek Parliament. In accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the following signatory Members - to put the signatory, ladies and gentlemen - "we request a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill: "Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Nationality - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on a single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’. The Members of the New Democracy of Adonis Georgiadis, George Georgatas, Ioannis Platakis, Makis Voridis, Dimitris Kyriazides, George Stylis, Christos Boukoros, Stavros Kalafatis, Stephanas Gikas, Thanasis Davakis, Konstantinos Tasoulis, Konsoflas Emmanouil, Koschalis Timoleon, Athanasios Charalampos, Kefalannis Ioannis, Vultesis Sophia, Mitadis Panayiotis (Natis), Yogakas Vasilis, Katsafados Konstantinos, Broutsis Ioannis, Martinou Georgia, Aygeakis Leuteris, Konstantinos Achilles Karamanis, Dimitris Stamatis, Nikotis, Panitis, Panitis. The roll-call vote will take place tomorrow at 13.00 a.m. in order to make the prior parliamentary scrutiny. The Minister has, of course, informed us that she will be absent because of her obligation to be in Brussels tomorrow and tomorrow on immigration issues. Let's wish her good luck. Minister, do not forget the two declarations made by the Presidents of the European Union and the Presidents of the Union for the Mediterranean which unequivocally formulate what needs to be enshrined in democracy and the present era. He will be Mr. Voutissis to represent the government. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-24-S1-commons.u417	With the consent of the House at 19.12' the sitting will be closed tomorrow Thursday, June 25, 2015 at 09.30', on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, and at 13.00 the roll-call vote will take place.
