ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Continue the debate on the Government's Programmatic Declarations and vote to give Parliament's confidence in the government. We will start with the agreement that we had reached yesterday and approved unanimously, namely, four fellow Members, immediately after Mr Papagelopoulos had asked him to show a tolerant of seven minutes, because he was left with the Bureau last night, Mr Simorellis, so he could speak as fifth and then go with four. This doesn't cut your turn, Mr. Panjah. You're third.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u2	Whatever you want, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u3	So we agree to start like this. I say to the Members, if not everyone is in the Chamber, that Mrs Dritselli Panagiota is the first, that Mrs Karamanlis Anna, Mr Panzas, Mr Panagiotaros, Mr Simrelis, Mr Papagelopoulos, and we continue with the list every four weeks. So Mrs. Drittelli, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my introduction, I would like to say something about the two days of the Programming Declarations. In fact, listening to colleagues and colleagues, in particular the Officerial Response, one wonders why they cannot understand that the Greek people in three elections gave them the understanding that the policy followed was wrong, devastating for the country and punished them. So you continue to believe that society has a memory of goldfish. You continue to think even now that you can move on to the well-known account of the success story, that as far as January everything was going well, that we lived in a paradise and that suddenly the hollows of the country came and shattered it all. Do not play with our intelligence and, above all, with the intelligence of the Greek people. As much as you are trying to degrade the government’s image in the world’s consciousness, you will not succeed. You did not make it either in January or in July or in the recent elections. So you will not succeed either now, because the people have shut down once and for all the well-founded script of the left-hand parentheses. Indeed, yesterday, we heard the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, giving us ironically and scornically apologies for how we have growth in our minds, and that is why he said very simply three words, namely "works", 'works', 'works' and 'works'. We have had the feeling so far that, for Mr Mitsotakis, growth is three simple words, namely "dismissals", "dismissals" and "availability". The citizens have therefore recognised, ladies and gentlemen, the battles we have fought for all the previous period and today, with a new strong democratic mandate, we have to build the new one. Citizens are asking us to create those conditions that will lead the country out of the economic crisis and the economy in growth. Our base in this effort can be no more than governmental efficiency, but also the fight against all the bad texts that have led us to the difficult situation in recent years. So the new government has, before the crucial milestones, but also essential challenges, to which we must respond with creativity, with dynamism, but also with a view always to efficiency and social justice. The recent elections have sent a clear message, the citizens are calling for a new model of governance of the country, free from the suffering of the past with a positive social sign, but strongly supporting SYRIZA's efforts to free the country from debt and recession. We are therefore called - it is undeniable - to work hard to achieve these goals, which we have set in the first place. All our forces now need to focus on resolving the critical issues of the next period, which are not other than the completion of the assessment, the formal launch of the debt debate and the normalisation of the banking system, which are essentially the critical shells that we must overcome. In this direction, then, the renewed confidence of citizens is the compass of our action and to change the climate in the economy and finally break the chains of austerity. Political stability is clearly a prerequisite and is obviously a necessary condition for the difficult trials that we have ahead. Equally, however, it is also an important factor in government efficiency, because we have been calling for immediate solutions to problems that have been testing our society and our economy for decades. In this area we may also have the greatest challenges we will have to face. Effective management of the country's problems is the main objective of our governance. In this effort we are also looking for dialogue, we are also looking for consensus, we are also looking for creative interaction. The difficult measures we have before us must be approached solely with regard to social justice, but also with regard to the relief of our weakest fellow citizens who have been affected in recent years more than anyone else. We also have to give all those alternatives to reduce social injustices, but also to consolidate the sense of justice for the citizens, particularly as regards the most difficult aspects of the agreement of 12 July. At the same time, however, we are not going to put our own progressive priorities in the drawer. The aim is to build a new social state with strong public education, health and social protection policies. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Reconstruction of the social state is the great goal of our government's action. The radical areas that we are envisioning need the support of the whole society, which we call on it to actively contribute to this effort with its struggles, movements and any other form of democratic and collective claim, because we remain a vital cell of these struggles, stand alongside social claims and try to justify social expectations as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, after the great battles we have fought in the negotiations, we have in front of us, and it is known, a hard and upward path. But the thing that differentiates us from yesterday's powers is that every step of ours each of our plans has been put in the Greek people's judgment from the outset. The citizens of the country have recently been in the driver's seat for the critical choices the country has been called upon to take. Never had a government ever worked in such a democratic and collective way. This active democratic interaction is part of our progressive thinking and action, and these traits stem from the long tradition of the social struggles of the Left. So, with a view to society and compassing this trust, we will continue to go on now. Despite the hard trials that are waiting for us, we will manage and return a page for the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are not going to allow the maintenance forces to overthrow society's path towards progress, but also toward justice. The new government will fight and win. We will all work with stubbornness and firmness to change the circumstances, to move forward, based on our own powers. The harder we have negotiated in the past few months, the more we will continue to fight, to try for progressive governance and the consolidation of law. No maintenance force is going to stop us, no obstacle is going to scare us. With faith in our powers, with confidence in our people and our potential, we will continue to move ahead only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u5	As you can see, we owe Mrs Dritselli a tolerant, because we afflict her every three and a little, 'on the list' and 'on the list'. So we owe it to her. Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I'll ask for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u7	We started out with two nice women, and now we're in another situation. Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u8	Don't count the time now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u9	All right, Mrs Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, after my colleague's crescendo, who, instead of apologizing for the lies in the past seven months, once again did the well-known, that is, a sterile opposition, let's...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u11	Anna, I'm sorry, but just so the kids don't leave, I'll take your time and put him in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, students and students and an educational attendant from the 4th Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're starting from the beginning, Anna.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u12	You don't have to, Mr. President. All the people we were in this Chamber, we saw the prolonged crescendo. So let's get in the way. Ladies and gentlemen, on Monday we watched the Prime Minister read a report of ideas, presenting the intentions of his Government and the country's governance plan, a text without weight, without content. What is the heart, what is the central point of this project? How, when and by whom will it be applied? Does it have a sense of time and danger? I'm sure his only purpose is to handle citizens again. Indeed, the unsuspecting citizen could be persuaded, following the announcements that the country is gaining a positive outlook, that there is political will and determination to move forward with reforms and structural changes, in order to regain our pitfall and to be detached from the memorials, like others. It could be convinced if this step had not been taken by the Prime Minister and the previous programming statements, last February, when he assured everyone that he has a plan ready and proposals realistic that will create a framework of mutually acceptable agreement when he committed himself to the abolition of the HPAI, the increase in the minimum wage, the third pension, no increase in age limits, no reduction in mainstream and subsidiary pensions. We are prejudicial to what will happen and what will happen with its new promises. But there is a clear difference, ladies and gentlemen. Today everything happened, or rather the SYRIZA - ANEL Government made it more complex, more complicated and more difficult than January 2015. But even if we accept that Mr Tsipras has now finally met with the realities, even at a heavy cost for the country, the draft budget submitted is totally incomprehensible with the Prime Minister's optimism and fatality. Mr. Tsipras mentioned the return of the economy to positive growth in the first half of 2016, when the draft forecasts a recession of 2.3% for 2015 and 1.3% for 2016. He talked about employment programmes that will involve 100 thousand unemployed, but the unemployment forecast shows an increase in both 2015 and 2016. I would therefore suggest that Mr Tsipras be in cooperation with the Minister for Finance, at least saying the same, not to deny each other to be on a common line. And if this is all about Mr. Tsipras, why doesn't he speak for sure about investments? Because he knows - I hope so! - that in an economy, investments come only when there is a prospect of an increase in demand. For what demand, though, when in an economy that is back down in the recession and with family income shrinking, does SYRIZA Government - ANY drain it, imposing taxes and cuts of over EUR 6 billion? The tax is a direct takeover from income and tax, ladies and gentlemen, citizens cannot impose capital controls. I'm taking the people's income away from me means throwing the demand and kicking the investment away. Of course, the Prime Minister has taken care to reassure us that they will find equivalents to reduce the burden on households. He doesn't have a good reputation to believe him. But it's inventive. Let's see what he's gonna up to! He also referred to VAT on education, which we all deserve to remember is that SYRIZA's election programme said it is an element of social justice. A month after the beginning of the school year, and while the government follows its constant tactics of "seeing and doing", the Prime Minister came to speak vaguely about equivalents, even asking that the opposition should find them so that a wild tax of his own inspiration does not apply. Not even to mention VAT on the islands, a subject for which Mr Kammenos was tearing his clothes. That's how they teach children "writing with the right", gentlemen and ladies of Annell? Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we watched Mr Tsipras set as central objectives: the recapitalisation of banks, the debt settlement and investments, which I have already mentioned. For the banks, we did not hear a trace of self-criticism, as if it were not the one who closed them and imposed capital controls, causing losses of twenty-five billion euros in our economy, as if the market had not been drained from the capital restrictions, as if it were not deterrently operating this morbid situation for every potential investor, but also for our exports, because basic and most raw materials are imported, as we all know. Of course, we have not heard the slightest hint about when to put an end to the capital controls. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] On the question of debt, it is true that the Prime Minister has shown particular weakness and uses it in dock, depending on what serves his pursuits. Before the January elections, he had made his flag the deletion and the haircut as the vehicle of exiting from austerity. So that we do not remember the various charming things about "lawless, lame and shameful debts" that were heard by top SYRIZA executives at the time, to be ridiculed by themselves, their companions, shortly later. Today, he is talking to us about the need to complete the first assessment, that is to say, to pass the measures so that the debt restructuring negotiations can begin. The negotiation of the debt is only a communal trick. It is the antidote to the tough measures of the memorandum signed by the government and it is immediately called upon to implement. And it's mainly addressed to the inner-party audience, which doesn't even mention the "second time left" evolved into a new fiasco. The so-called debt negotiation is the carrot for the majority MPs who will be called upon to suffer the whip, which is to pass the applicable laws and to comply fully with the requirements of Mr Tsipras' Memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras has demanded and received a second opportunity from the Greek people. For the country, however, I fear there will be no next chance. The New Democracy, in promoting the national interest, put back on our country to take advantage of this last opportunity and voted for the painful agreement of the previous government. But the ultimate responsibility for the present from here on out lies with you. The bitter glass of your destructive, political choices, you drink it to the end and you drink it yourself. So don't seek opportunistic allies or accomplices to our party. You won't find them. Like, after all, they say your former companions, your own, you are every word, every article, of this memorial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. Before giving the floor to my dear Mr. Panjah, I would like to make the following announcements: I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as applicable, First, on 21-9-2015 criminal proceedings concerning: Former Minister for Culture, Sports, Georgios Lianis. And secondly, the former Deputy Minister of Finance, George Mavragani. On 5-10-2015, criminal lawsuits concerning the former Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Aristides - Nikolaos - Dimitrios Baltas and former Minister of State for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Since it has not yet come from the services - I will be sure - and possibly go, it is worth mentioning that from the gallery amateur actors of the theatrical workshop of the Municipality of Nea Orestiadas, who for two nights presented the project "Don Camillo" in the confiscated hall of the Municipality of Athens "Anna and Maria Kalota". The House welcomes you and always wishes you success. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And from the Special Secretary of the House, apparently, in consultation with the President of the Parliament, the following paper came to me: I would like to ask the Ministers, in order to be able to speak more Members and Ministers, their speaking time to be the following: the Ministers, ten minutes, the Deputy Ministers, eight minutes, and the Undersecretaries, six minutes. Now, because the first unfortunate is Mr Papagelopoulos, rather than the twelve minutes that he is entitled to and because he will have something interesting to say, let me give two more minutes. And from there on, we start normally, as the paper came from the Special Secretary came to me. Here, Mr. Panjah, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad you're here today. Honestly. I'm sorry, but you haven't understood, gentlemen, that we've reached a compromise with the lenders exactly because before him there were two other criminal memoirs. And these brought the third one. You do not understand that your memorials have impoverished Greek society, memorials that have leveled the middle class and weakened the Greek people. Today you are criticising us of the agreement we have brought. Let me remind you that all the time you've been screaming and telling us to accept what the lenders offered us. You told us to give everything - land and water - what the troika, lenders, Shoeble and others were asking for, provided we had an agreement. So since we brought the deal, you come now and lie from morning to night, you say it's worse than the previous ones. And not just that. You say that you will vote against many of the measures that you have seen some time ago as redemption for the country. I mean, a hypocrisy in all her majesty! But have you wondered why the Greek people trusted us, why did he honour us with his vote, even though he knew the difficult measures that are coming? Why is that? I will tell you: for you represent the old and the worn-out and you cannot get rid of your fathers. You also say that we have the responsibility of the agreement. That's true. We got her. You must, however, tell the Greek people that you have the responsibility for the one and a half million unemployed, the piles, the hunger wages, the impoverished pensions, the waste, the redundancies, the tax evasion lists and all obvious and non-scanners, the scandals that slowly, one behind the other, come to the surface. Isn't that right, Minister? You have an absolute responsibility for the complexity and corruption that you have created over the past few years. You are responsible for the country's disaster and bankruptcy. That responsibility is exclusively yours. Four elections - along with the referendum and the European elections - and even understand his message. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what we do, the Greek people trusted us once again and you are obliged to respect his verdict. In January 2015 we told him that we would give the battle in Brussels to overturn the memorandum policies, that we would get to the extremes, that we would collide with all the anachronistic and criminal choices of the European mechanism. And we did. There is no question that, for the first time, the Greek Government has negotiated a tough and substantial negotiation, which has been recognized by the Greek people. We have achieved something very important: we have achieved climate change. And I am talking about change, because our European partners now have a new reality before them. Greece's awake. He doesn't say "yes" to everything. He resists and claims. It does not detract from any perverse requirement, just as you do, with the well-known results for our own society. We have therefore won a better agreement and we have succeeded. No matter what lies you say, that doesn't change. It's better than the previous ones. The debt now - most importantly - has entered for good at the negotiating table, a debt that you said is viable, the'red' loans, too. Structural reforms, war against complexity and great tax evasion, surpluses and more are the conquests of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, this time it is possible to get rid of the committee soon, creating the conditions for changing the state and the economy. So leave the tricquer, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, and join the national effort, the effort of this government and the Greek people. Otherwise, you will remain a foreign body within society itself. Add one more thing: You were hoping to break up SYRIZA and bet on the left-hand side. But the Greek people have deviated you. He doesn't want you to rule him! That's the truth! Understood! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u15	Thank you too, Mr Panjah. You didn't even fill out your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u16	Recorder! I'm done in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u17	Yeah. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. In three and a half years of parliamentary life I have first been in Stepma - and I have made too many speeches - and I have blocked myself. I don't know what to say about what we've heard in the past few days, over the past few weeks, this huge papajiliaki, this incredible atrocity, which comes out of people who said exactly the opposite. This uncovered disgrace, this ostracism, and even four, of course, how an ostrich can be in four, that's another story! - I don't think he has any like in the recent past. We see that the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence of Prime Minister Tsipras is struggling to look like some issues, some expressions and moves with Andreas Papandreou. The voice looks a little, some gestures look like. They think that's how they'll fool the Greek people. And, unfortunately, so far they are doing well. We hope, however, that this mockery will be stopped at some point. To understand that the Greek people are tragic - beyond the ridiculous thing - they are sad, the reality is gloomy and that tomorrow is predetermined - if nothing drastic - to lead our country, the Greek citizens to the total, perfectional disaster. We'll say what you've been saying up to January 15 and a few days later, before you sign the February agreement, that the memorandum should be deleted with an article, with a law, together with the implementing laws. You kept talking about the millions of Greeks, who have no job, about unemployment, which is the highest in the European Union and still the highest. And there is no prospect, as we have seen in the preliminary draft budget, of falling in 2016 or 2017. It'll go up. You were talking about the cries of the neo-democratics, about what they were saying. But you yourself, after a while, brought all of this to you and disillusioned a large part of the Greek people. And that was the worst thing you've done, because the Greek people have eaten a lot of leaps since 2010. He tried to stand up, but always the God machine, the system, found ways to stop it. Whether with the para-states who were destroying, they dismantling the large unscrupulous gatherings that were made here in the Constitution in either the first memorandum or the illegal persecution of a political party - which is at the moment the third in the country and is still stable - fearing and terrifying the Greek citizens, or with the incredible cotuba of your government, where too many people believed you, they thought you would do something from what you were saying. But you did exactly the opposite. If anyone listened to Mr. Tsipras, he'd think he was Samaras. Hotspot, broadband. Only the wi-fi forgot to mention. You continue the same ethnic, criminal, betrayal policy against the Greek people. What your predecessors did, you go on and do it now. You are rushing the Greek people, literally, to exterminate them. We're talking about a genocide without a precedent. Thousands of fellow citizens kill us every day and you don't say a word. Hundreds of thousands of young people, the best minds went abroad. They are the ones who say that you will bring them back to work here with EUR 300, 400 if it has a job. These are people in productive age and in terms of work, but also in terms of family creation, so that the Greek nation can perpetuate itself. But you are bringing hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, which you support multiplely, diversely, in every way. We see how an entire state is mobilising them to feed them, to house them, at the same time that tens of thousands of Greek homeless people have absolutely no luck. When you took the illegal immigrants and took them to sheltered areas with food in the streets of Athens, there were the usual homeless Greeks who remained there, alone and helpless. And you have done nothing for them, because very simply because, firstly, you are not a rat, secondly, the money from NGOs does not include them and thirdly, because many of those who like you - like Mr Soros - want to dismantle our country. You have dissolved the free professionals, farmers, craftsmen, micro-automators, all those who are the backbone of a healthy economy and not the so-called markets, the ones who lend you, the crows and the funds. You are rewarding the anti-holyness in every way and we see that the only ones who are economically successful in this modern Greek society are those who have nursed at the CNN or the "Ferrae King", then - you know - with the arrogant armpits, the arrogant legs, the arrogant, the tatars that were shouting for the imperialists, but now they go and see them. They are all business executives who make money out of contracts with the state and only with it and nowhere else, big-timers, big-time publishers, big-workers, all of them. You continue the same policy just as much as you're trying to gold out your predecessors' pill. You have no idea what this is about when you talk about growth. Is it developing with disastrous taxes to the detriment of farmers, to the detriment of the free professionals and all those who, as we said before, are the backbone of the economy? There's no growth like that. And you can't, because - I repeat - and you don't know and you don't want to. On national issues we see that they force you to the Aegean to become joint patrols of Greeks and Turks - those that bring all illegal immigrants, which is a large part of the problem - so that they do not come. They're mocking you and spitting you in the face, and you're the one who plucks your head! At the same time you are calling on Kosovo's so-called Foreign Minister, a country that we all know what happened, which is not a country, which you are trying to make with your contacts, by approving and signing agreements with that country at the expense of our allies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The only block across this neck - it does not allow us time to say any more - is Golden Dawn whether you like it or not. God put his hand on this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. As I said at the outset, Mr Simorellis has been agreed to speak from yesterday, and I would ask him to come to Stepma. Furthermore, since there is a meeting of the representatives of the parties at Mr. Voutsi's office at 12.00 p.m., I will be allowed, although Mr. Kegeroglu was on the next quadrant, to represent PASOK at this meeting in order to resolve procedural and other issues, but necessary to resolve them today - to give him the floor and then Mr. Papagelopoulos. Mr. Simorelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. And yesterday and today the New Democracy colleagues insist and tell us that we do not have their confidence, we do not have their support. Who asked you? Who asked you? We do not want trust or support from the old. We have the fresh support of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to wish the Prime Minister, the Government and the new Parliament a good success and a good strength in the difficult parliamentary term before us. I also want to thank my fellow citizens of the Trikalon Prefecture who have honoured our struggle with their vote and their re-confidence to represent them in the Greek Parliament. At this critical moment for the Greek society and the economy, the new government, with its fresh and clear popular mandate, must immediately start its work. Following on from what started last period, in its view, solidarity and social justice, it must clash with the old establishment and bring about the radical changes necessary which require a modern, social and democratic state. The basic prerequisite for anticipating positive results is the lasting battle to alleviate the Greek debt that absolutely needs to be won. This will give breath to the Greek economy and help us get out of the blackmailing policy of austerity. The restructuring of debt for the first time becomes a problem, not only of our own, but of Europe. It is clear that this battle can be given and only won by a political force that does not belong to the old political scene, which has responsibility for the creation of the debt. Moreover, the big bet on this government is to put an end to the chronic corruption that is plagued by certain aspects of the Greek economy, with targeted moves that will detect it and uncover it, so that money is not wasted every year on tax evasion and illegal action. The next time fighting all forms of corruption must be a flag of the government, with stricter penalties and simplification of their enforcement process. The money resulting from the fight against the parafiscal economy and tax evasion, the smuggling, the VAT return of 6 billion a year can be used to strengthen the welfare state and equivalent measures. Finally, the hidden lists must be opened to pay those years that were illegally rich at the expense of the Greek people. Besides, growth is not something magically coming. There is a need for radical changes in the fight against red tape that prevents business activity. The working middle ages and precariousness are not growth guarantees, as the neoliberal dogma promises us, but are exacerbating the crisis. We must ensure that the competitiveness of the Greek economy is not based on the'mobilisation' of work, but on innovation, inventivity, research and tourism. We must, with appropriate use of investment packages, give a push forward, support the small and medium-sized enterprises, create the conditions for young people and young scientists not to be forced to leave the country. To support farmers and the primary production sector, with the protection of their income, the control of illegal imports and export planning. In short, we must allay the mess that forty years has created the parties of the old political scene, with the development, with the fight against corruption and interlocutory, with a social state and solidarity, with a class mark. And all this, to be in the interest of the Greek people and especially those who have been affected over the last five years of austerity. Ladies and gentlemen, this government, more experienced, more determined, continues its titanic work of permanent negotiation, aimed not only at debt restructuring but at changing correlations and combating the logic of austerity in Europe. Its course and action is an example and inspires the peoples of Europe, promoting a fairer system and a Europe of peoples and its founding values. It is a difficult battle that is still at the beginning, but with struggle, support for the Greek people and all democratic European citizens we can achieve. One more thing. I should like, as an active pharmacist, to address the Ministers for Health and Economy - I am sorry that nobody is here, I imagine, to hear it - and to convey the anxiety of the thousands of pharmacists, workers working in the field of medicine and the citizens that the medicine must remain a social commodity and must not be a common commodity. Also, pharmacists want their drugs to be primary care centers. They want to apply to pharmacies in Greece as well as to the rest of Europe. Do not cross into hands and chapters of unknown origin, which will be at the expense of public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u21	I will now give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu. Mr. Kegeroglu, would you like to speak from your position or from the Step?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u22	They are programmed, Mr President. Step by step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u23	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor. I hope you appreciate the tolerance of colleagues and you'll be done in six minutes. You'll get Mr. Voutsi later, and you'll go to his office.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President, and my fellow Members. We have to say that two days now we have heard good reports of ideas, new theories of moratorium leftism, general reports and comments on the problems of the country and society, but a debate on solutions. Gentlemen of government, after you have killed hope and especially for young people, you are tramplers of the truth every day. Trace of self-criticism! You'll realize it after two months, but we'll tell you right now. We have not heard two days now about the three hundred and ninety-nine projects of the ESRB that we have responded to and the 3.1 billion that we have lost, nor about the European Commission's disapproval of the alleged extension request you made. The European Commission has never been tabled, he says. We have not heard a word about increasing unemployment. You blocked the ten of the eleven ready-to-eight programmes for dealing with unemployment, which we handed over to you. You have dismantled the real economy, especially in the import and export sectors, and we have had within thirty-five days a hundred and sixty thousand redundancies. We have twenty thousand gaps in primary and secondary education. You forgot to take out the special education notice. You left forty thousand children out of children's stations this year. You have cut funding in forty-four daily care centres for a thousand four hundred thirty children with disabilities. You do not implement the law on the special hospital of sheltered living. You left out of the feeding card program, which the whole House voted, a hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries. From the European Development Fund, which we brought in December 330 million and is in the EIF's fund, for the food aid programme you have not yet disbursed a single euro. Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Triantafylides and Saridis referred to the remarkable work done by the Government and the Church in Western Thessaloniki, which is indeed very important. However, they forgot to say or do not know that it is a programme supported by the Ministry of Labour on the basis of a programme contract. We must say that instead of extending the guaranteed social income of the new institution, which was finally established in our country - from 1 July to the whole country - you have tried to deceive the new institution. The European Commission, of course, through the Memorandum has forced it to relaunch since April 2016 at the cost of abolishing the CSCE. "Dash" for the first time the minimum pension in our country. You accepted the abolition of the CSCE I mentioned earlier. The 2% reduction in main pensions and 6% in subsidiary pensions is only the first reduction in cuts. The new major reductions that come solely are due to the reduction of state funding by about 2.5 billion proposed by Mr Tsipras to join the third memorandum. Previously, with a very stunning stunner, the Prime Minister announced that the distribution of travel cards for 2015 will take place. You're all here. With a lot of veil, he announced it, I stress it. It's not his fault. Some people gave him the note. We inform him that this program has been working for many, many years. Last year, for example, in 2014 the cards were distributed in March and April. What's that announcement? Ladies and gentlemen, the first SYRIZA - ANEL in unreliability and demagogy is now undeniable. There were others before. You have exceeded them, with the promises of January 12 billion of the Thessaloniki programme, which were made 14.5 billion, with the third memorandum, with the conversion of 'no' to the Yunker measures of 8.1 billion to 'yes' in the Tsipras - Kammenos of 14.5 billion, with the promises of a parallel programme and equivalent measures, which you did not think about in seven months, but you discovered them in the twenty-three election days. After the last elections in any case, you would think that they would finally end the lies. But they go on. The SYRIZA - ANEL government is now addicted. He reinstated deficits and recession, but in lie he creates surpluses and even great ones. Here it is, Mr. Tsipras, the only chance, the great equivalent you can find. Instead of increasing VAT on food, focus, farmland, education, islands and tourism, instead of overtaxing farmers and trillion of insurance contributions, instead of increasing the rate from 26% to 29%, instead of permanentising the solidarity levy, instead of abolishing the CSCE, instead of reducing the State funding to the insurance funds by 2.5 billion, the equivalent is to impose 23% VAT on your false promises, announcements and commitments. A first estimate: Thessaloniki Program 12 billion, 14.5 billion the memorandum that would never come, 26.5 billion for 23% 6.1 billion. I am absolutely serious because, with the same understanding, you have unfortunately signed all you have signed, supposedly after a hard negotiation. However, what claims to be registered in the book Gina is the lies of the Programming Declarations, as Mr Tsipras himself confirmed. Where's the truth, after all, to see where 23% gets in? In the Programming Declarations you spoke of reducing unemployment or in the budget, which you estimate to increase 1.2% in unemployment? In the Programming Declarations you said about growth in the first half of 2016 or in the budget that you predict a recession of 1.3%? In the Programming Declarations you said about an export increase, or in the budget you're talking about a 1% reduction? In the Programs you spoke of reducing public debt or of the budget that you predict an increase of 192% of GDP from 181%? Where's the truth? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that the only forecast that coincides between the budget and the Programmatic Declarations is the provision for increased investment, the only one that will be disguised by things, because of the great allergy that SYRIZA has in his DNA for private investment and entrepreneurship. With the government's responsibility, Greece seems to be losing another chance and entering a new regression cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u26	I'm done, Mr. President. We insist and call on the seven hundred and sixty-four thousand people who have been disappointed by the government, by the New Democracy and by other forces to come near, not to stand against politics...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u27	Vasilio, you're embarrassing me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u28	...to make use of the opportunity to support the truth and the real perspective and hope for the place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u29	As I said before, the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Dimitris Papaggiopoulou, has the floor and, as I said, instead of eight minutes that the Deputy Ministers have, because he is the first to come into the reduction, will have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your time in speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption is a priority, a commitment by the government and a basic pillar of the social contract signed with the Greek people on 25 January and renewed on 20 September. But, as you know, the treatment of corruption is not dealt with by wishing, in my own personal opinion, or by greedy plans, which usually fail and result in wishes. We must not forget the words of the Lambentusa in Catopardo that 'to keep everything the same, you must change it all'. But the government, SYRIZA - ANEL, does not want everything to stay the same. He wants to end with the old one. So we continue without wishfulness and empty content, but with greater dynamics and knowledge, which has been guaranteed by the seven-month rule, and with the expressed will of the Prime Minister, who is also the command of the Greek people, to smash all the enclaves of interlocutory and corruption at all levels and in all directions. We have chosen the Greek Anti-Corruption Secretariat to be subject to the Ministry of Justice as an independent structure within a ministry which is, anyway, the crown of ensuring the democratic functions of the state. Most of the actions, after all, start with justice or end up with it. This structure has already been successful. It is a structure much more effective than previous political choices made by the governments of the past and the troika, which have exclusively been targeted on communication and no results, which is demonstrated by the fact that even in the Memorandum of Governance the phenomenon of corruption has been demonstrated, instead of retreating, gigantic. Corruption, unfortunately, has spread horizontally across the entire public administration, which is suffering not from executives, but from a lack of transparent procedures, which allows for easy and uncontrolled operation of circuits that are literally drained into the public administration and the country's economy. We are already facing a new reality. There have been big revelations within a very short time. Justice is breathing. Control mechanisms shall be upgraded and operated in an uninterrupted manner. The commitment to ruthless fight against corruption and conflict was literally respected by the previous government and we are now continuing even more decisively. And we don't stop here. We do not stop on the Lagard list, on the loans of ATE, on the scandalous concessions of TIAD, on the Panagia scandal, on the lending of media, on the ocean loans of the medievals, on the bay of the directed state advertisements, and on so many others, which are now on their way. The results are visible, but they are even more important what they will follow. We won't retreat to the war to get out of the stack of corruption. We are ready and determined for the break with the old and bankrupt system, the economic oligarchy, the vicious establishment and the divided interests. We have already drawn up and implemented the national anti-corruption action plan, the institutional framework that runs horizontally and vertically across all the public and private sectors, in order to dismantle any corruption, every pocket of enrichment at the expense of the people and national interests. Forty-seven are the targets with a hundred and twenty-three actions and deep interventions - all of the public administration within the next three years 2015-2018. You will allow me to mention some of the most important objectives: Firstly, the upgrading of the role and capabilities of the auditing mechanisms and the merger of the major ones, with the aim of better and faster results, better organisation, and of saving financial resources. I would like to point out here that the role of prosecutors against corruption and economic crime will be upgraded and strengthened. More prosecutors armed with the necessary powers and powers will be thrown into the fight against corruption. Secondly, better coordination and the exchange of information between control mechanisms. Thirdly, the adoption of international audit standards by the audit bodies and regular audits. Fourthly, the introduction of information systems so that in real time information can be disseminated and managed between control mechanisms. Fifthly, the development of an anti-corruption strategy throughout the public administration, in particular in the areas of high risk, health, defence, public procurement, procurement, local government agencies, public works and so on. Sixthly, the full reform of the system and procedures for public procurement on transparent terms in public works. Seven, the complete reform of the health supply system. Eighth, new legal framework for combating smuggling - fuels, tobacco and alcohol - while setting up a single operational centre for the prosecution of smuggling. Ninth, the creation of a single system for receiving complaints of corruption across public administration and co-financed programmes. Its transmission for inspection to the competent audit bodies and the speed and quality of the procedures with accelerating the actions of all the auditing mechanisms and with immediate priority to the development of the major cases. As a matter of priority, the creation of a new legal framework for political money and for the "outside" of state officials, which will be completed in the next two months. We will use all the Community programmes to modernise control mechanisms and exploit new technologies, in constant cooperation and exchange of know-how with the leading European mechanisms. For the first time, we are asking for funding to upgrade the top aspects of the audit mechanism. Already the General Secretariat, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the ESDP, is working in this direction. To sum up, to finish this chapter in my speech, to say that we are moving forward in honor of our declarations with actions that will make it possible to make the areas of modern democratic governance possible by a radical sign. The other legislative initiatives and actions of the Ministry of Justice were mentioned by Minister Nikos Paradylopoulos. In addition, I will say, because of my experience, because I served thirty years as prosecutor, that the vast majority of the prosecutors and judges of our country honour their duties. I assure them that I respect them, honor them, and trust them completely. I'll be a good man in their painful efforts. I know their problems and I will do my utmost to solve them. I also know people and things in the field of justice. Finally, I know the legal and non-tertiary things people use to prevent their work. I have prepared legislative and other measures to facilitate their work. But I have a request to my old colleagues: Justice is blind, but it must not be deaf. It must be disgusting to our society. He must feel human suffering, and he must not forget that he is not judging cases and pleadings, but human beings. And I want to remind them that independence means no dependency and dependencies include some concepts, such as ideological, ideological, obsessive, hierarchical, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ending with the point that corruption is leeching us all out and we must get rid of it. But it's also Lernaia Hydra. One head cuts, three show up. I would remind you that the mythical Hercules would not have achieved anything if he did not have the help of his partner, who burned immediately after the cutting of each head. It is therefore necessary to neutralise corruption and interlocutory assistance from the whole of the political system. The fight against corruption and interlocutory is not a bet, because the bet involves the element of uncertainty. It's a historical check. It's a popular command. It's a commitment of Prime Minister and Government SYRIZA - ANEL. It is therefore a unique opportunity to get rid of this gangrene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we need to go down here, given that the Deputy Minister, Mr Mouszalas, at 12.30 seconds has to leave for the airport, because he is going to Luxembourg. I shall give the floor to Mr Athanasios Charalambos, on a proposal from our President, Mr Voutsi, to follow Mr Athanasios Charalambos, a Member of the House after the Minister. I will then give the floor to Mr Moussala for the time that he has been given, and then, because there will not be four colleagues, eight of them who, in turn, are Mr Athanasios Stefos, Mrs Vrankza, Mrs Kanelli, Mr Emmanoulidis, Mr Javarras, Mr Katsikis and Mr Vartenmenos. In other words, I will not intrude him until we exhaust the names that I have told you to serve Mr Muzala who has to leave for the airport. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, about eight months ago during the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government's programming declarations, I recommended that my fellow government MPs be pitiful with the words and promises because soon what they say can find them in front of them. Eight months ago, the memorials would be torn apart, Greece would stop being a debt colony. A better solution was inevitable. We lived in the middle of the negotiation - a joke by Mr Varoufakis, who did not want the money of foreigners until ours is completely over. We lived in a referendum that no one yet understands, because it happened. We have lived through the almost complete collapse of the real economy, which has led us to a negative rate of growth again. We also survived the first elections in history that were held to close a Prime Minister's accounts with his internal-party opponents. And I would remind you that if the anti-population forces were not there, I had pre-empted the New Democracy, put back on the hard way to save the country, we would have experienced a national tragedy of unscrupulous proportions. In the eight months that have elapsed, the SYRIZA - ANEL government has done nothing of these majestic things. On the contrary, he did almost everything we warned her not to. He did a few more feats, such as the famous Katorugalou law that brought the jurors back to the public and now he runs the ravine - for the government to collect them. I could say a lot more, but due to a lack of time I will confine myself to two issues that I know well. One is justice, which I served as Minister of Justice, and the second is immigration, where, as a representative of the Lesvos Prefecture, I must remind you of the tragic consequences of the previous government's policy on our remote islands. In justice, the government's main legislative initiative was n. 4322/2015, a law written on the foot under the pressure of friends of Savvas Xiros and their mobilisations within and outside penitentiary institutions. This law introduced the provisions on the release of disabled detainees, which at random served the purpose of the immediate release of Savvas Xiros. The institution of type III booking stores was abolished, without explaining why in almost all the Western world such stores, type III, and operating as an institution, have succeeded. The provisions on the dismissal of detainees who have been sentenced to serious offences have been established. So they were released on favourable terms in advance, following the creation of 1/3 of the sentence, without any exception - I stress - for specific offences. They were released for felony acts over ten years, i.e. for some of the worst offences, rapers, paedophiles, armed robbers, ruthless human soul traffickers. Some of them, just a few days after they were released, have been involved in new tough offences and the reply of the relevant Minister, Mr. Paraskevi, who even claims today, was that his arrangements repeated earlier arrangements. He had nothing to do with it because we were excluding offences. In fact, he boasts of the decongestion he has achieved, proving that behind the plausible statements the biggest inaccuracies often hide. Other provisions made it more difficult to deport foreigners who have been convicted of serious offences and who have been deported, according to the law and the judgement of the courts. From Mr Paradise, whom I still respect and honor as a scientist, I have been expecting initiatives of another kind. I was expecting him to proceed with the new Criminal Code, with the new Penal Code. I was expecting to discuss the issue of dealing with the volume of litigation, a major problem with public law. For all this, it had become an important advance from our Government. Unfortunately, however, the SYRIZA Government, instead of a modern anti-crime policy, offered us only theoremology, ideology and above all curiosity. Besides, the Minister himself actually admitted that the main interventions included in the Memorandum of Understanding, such as the Banking Code and the Code of Civil Procedure, were not the result of consultation but were imposed on him by foreigners at the last minute. And I ask, these matters were open and they knew them to SYRIZA from the first day. What have they been doing for six months? Why have they not been negotiated on justice matters, rather than at the last minute they have adopted the proposals of creditors inconsistently? I would also like to remind you that, even today, the heads of the supreme courts of the country have not been chosen, although their term of office has expired for a long time since 30 June. Over the last few days, we have also watched a kitten of responsibility for this issue between the Minister of Justice and the former President of the Parliament, as if the Greek people and the judiciary were mainly concerned about who was responsible, not why justice was so headless. Of course, none of the two responsible did explain that the same procedural problems did not prevent Mrs Thanos from being appointed to the leadership of the Ice Bay, middle of the night, in the midst of the referendum fever. The night the referendum was announced became the only choice of the President of the Ice Bay. But I'll explain why it happened. You must bear in mind that there is in the Constitution the Supreme Special Court under Article 100, which, apart from the constitutionality of the laws, also controls the prestige and the results of the referendum. Because there was a great deal of question if the referendum is valid, if it solves budgetary matters, then, firstly, if there is an appeal, there should be a President who would be liked to lead a decision in favour of the referendum. But the results? What did the referendum say to us? 'No' to measures of 8.5 billion. Have we implemented it? Does the result of the referendum apply? On the contrary, we took measures of 13.5 billion. That's why this choice was made. There was no choice for later, if there were consultations between the parties who would be the Prime Minister of the country. Why am I saying that? Because if the promotions were made at the same time, the President of the AED would probably be the President of the Council of State. This, of course, has been denounced and there is a press release on which I have taken it, and I am tabling it, as is Mrs Constantopoulos's different opinion with Mr Paradafopoulos, regarding the delay in the selection of leaderships. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There has been a lot of talk of the independence of justice by both the Minister and the Prime Minister. But what independence are we talking about? And what have they done for months for independence? I would remind you that the remuneration of judges is a function of their independence. Not only did the retrospectives vote, even the reduced because there was a budgetary problem. They voted against them, but furthermore they did not apply the Liberation Court ruling. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am presenting you with an excerpt from Dawn, where the Prime Minister says that it is a duty to apply the decisions of the House of Commons and they should be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u33	Check them out, because we've been through time, Minister. Don't read them. We'll read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u34	But I will be staying on two issues which are very serious, Mr President. Just give me one more minute, 'cause I have two ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u35	I've already given you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u36	Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, the administration of the courts is in line with the internal independence of the judges. We hear things and something was insinuated yesterday by the Minister and you. Do not dare to abolish the court's self-government or specifically to abolish self-government in the prosecutors, because some prosecutors are perhaps unsatisfactory. Nor can you abolish into a state function that is equal and equal to the other functions under the Constitution, elected administrations, or limit time. After their term of office, I understand that, but don't slow this down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u37	Minister, please, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, two words about corruption, because there has been a lot of talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u39	Yeah, but hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u40	There's been a lot of talk about corruption. You must bear in mind that we have done two pieces of legislation, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with which we have fought corruption and abused all the misdemeanours of public officials and judges. In addition, we established the National Coordinator against Corruption. What did they do? Not as legislation, but as results.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u41	The indignation that goes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u42	The international classification table has improved the country's position by twenty-four. What did the government do today? Apart from this, it was reported that some cases were brought to justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u43	Please, Mr Athanasios, because I cannot make any other derogations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u44	Mr. President, excuse me. That's all I have to say. Mr. Papagelopoulos, did they start yesterday? Pre-examinations and pre-examinations on all the cases you mentioned have begun for months and a year. They didn't happen yesterday. Not even when he doesn't grow a case...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u45	Please, Minister, I cannot leave you any more time. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u46	Who sent it to the D.A.? Who sent it to the D.A.?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Famelle, please don't start, please, so we can close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, in all cases preliminary examination and preliminary investigation have been initiated for months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u49	The facts are evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u50	And a word about the migration...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u51	No, Mr. Athanasios, please! I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u52	Good, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u53	I've given you four minutes because you've been responding to two ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u54	Anyway, with all this and the allegations about immigration, the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Athanasios, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u56	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u57	Excuse me, but I can't make that kind of a derogation. Already the Minister rightly wants to answer. Do you have three minutes, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u58	And less, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u59	Okay. I'll give you three minutes. If you don't use them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u60	I'll be monolithic. On the subject of Savva Xiros and the releases, Mr. Paraparopoulos has responded several times and I don't need to say more. I'll only remind you that Savvas Dryros is still in prison. As for the good guys, Mr. Athanasios is causing me, he comes to many issues. I am delighted to have more time for both of us to analyse and analyse them. But I will confine myself to the good and not the good ones. We don't have good ones. We have no intention of abolishing the self-employed. We simply consider independence to be true. As for the issues of leadership...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u61	You'll change it. Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Athanasios, why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u63	Aren't you going to abolish them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u64	No, Mr. Athanasios, we are not prepared. Are you trying to bind me? Of course, we will not abolish it because it is a democratic institution and we are the defenders of democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u65	The elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u66	The elected ones, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u67	The judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u68	But, of course, we will see how they were elected, if you will, and if you continue to provoke me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I can make this dialogue myself and other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u70	I apologize, I just don't have any experience and I answer the challenges...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Balauras was right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u72	It is not your fault that you are talking, it is your fellow Member who speaks and takes the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u73	I'll tell you about the issue of leadership. It seems to me that conspiracy theories are being developed in this House. The election of Mrs Thanos did not take place in the middle of the night. It was held on a Ministerial Council which started at eight o'clock and was the only opportunity we had to elect leadership. He was President of the Ice Bay, because she alone had passed through the Conference of Parliament. This is not about me or Mr Paradise or the government. Therefore, creating impressions that we supposedly preferred to do this and post-night hours, I think, is not a serious thing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, can I give you a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u75	No, there's no clarification at all. We're not having a court debate right now. We're done. I have a statement to this House: "We know that at the meeting on 7 October 2015, for today's sitting, "Having the debate on the Programming Declarations of the Government and voting for Parliament's vote of confidence in the New Democracy Parliament, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy is nominated by Mr. Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis": Ioannis Plakiotakis, Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the New Democracy". As we said, on the grounds that it is going to Luxembourg, I call on Mr Giannis Mousala, Deputy Minister for Migration Policy, to the Stepma. You've fallen in the case of time cuts, Mr. Muzala. You have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I have spoken to this House. I'm sorry, I'm embarrassed and ignorant of procedures. Today we are in a peculiar situation. Our homeland has never met such a thing. After imperialist wars, which have borne enough, we are living the biggest wave of refugee flows ever in Europe since World War II. This tragedy of the people is becoming a huge difficulty for our people, because we are the main doorway through which these flows pass. However, in my view, it facilitates the debate between the parties of the democratic arch, among the MPs, because today we are not talking about immigration, we are talking about refugee. 85% of the flows are from refugees. 65% of them are from Syria. 15% from Afghanistan and Eritrea. When we talk about refugee, there are not many views. Legally - I believe and morally - there is only one opinion, namely the Geneva Treaty, which says that refugees are not repulsorily deported, but that a humanitarian corridor is opened for them, the European law and the acquis, which says that refugees must be welcomed, and national law. What we are going to try to do from the government and the Ministry, precisely because there is only this possibility of interpreting from the parties in the democratic arch, will be to be collaborative and not to get involved in a "blame game" in a game of responsibility, that is, what that did before, what he then did, what happened then. Where are we right now? Europe is changing. Under pressure from a fortress Europe until two years ago, it is trying to make it difficult to change to a hosting and hosting Europe. Our Government accepted the Yunker proposals as a positive start, which were then accepted by Ministers, but mainly at the summit. This was possible, because the previous SYRIZA government had intervened, but the service government that worked on the same lines had also, in my view, established a Ministry of the Regions of the problem - probably a lot of work to do, but you understand what I mean - and they had tried to pass the legislation on the level of deterrent, on the level of hospitality. Where are we today? What kind of hits do we have? That does not mean, of course, that they are also our successes. The first is that Europe has recognised the problem as a European. It is therefore the refugee problem for Europe, which is happening in Greece. Europe must cure the side effects of this problem. The result of this is a second major change. Europe has adopted sixty thousand relocation posts. When we talk about about a million refugees, it seems a little bit. However, if you think that two years ago, the corresponding approval would involve two thousand prison posts, then it is a huge step forward, which we must support and help. Europe agrees to give us - not only to us, but to other countries like us - financial and technical assistance and human resources. It's already begun. Another proposal which is very important and which our Government is trying to pass - is on the table, but still does not have the power of others - is relocation from third countries. In other words, instead of refugees coming to Greece or Italy or Serbia and from there leaving to other countries of Europe, Europe should go to Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, which are the first refugee camps, to choose from there the refugees, to certify them and to relocate. This creates, in principle, security for refugees. They don't cross the Aegean Sea, they don't cross mountains and campus. It abolishes slave traders, creates less pressure on the countries of Europe that are at the border and is likely to be more economical. To do this, we are committed. We work with Europe at the beginning of 'I do and you stand in solidarity'. What we have to do and we're late. We have undertaken to work with FRONTEX - and that is where we are doing very well - with other European institutions. We have taken over the great hot spots, the place that the refugee is certified and that from there on can do the relocation. We're back. We're amazed. We didn't have much economic resources, but we were mostly surprised. We're moving fast. We can tell Europe - and now in Luxembourg we will say it - and the Europeans will also say that in a maximum of one, two months the 'hot spot' will fully operate. Hosting structures are a prerequisite. We've made a commitment for eight to ten thousand positions. But we have also told Europe and the Ministers, and the Prime Minister at the summit has made it clear that we will not make our country an endless concentration camp. The hosting places that we are going to create will depend on relocation, that is, on refugees, on hosting places, because it is our attention that we do not fall into a situation where refugees are staying here, that immigrants are staying here, and that relocation is going to take place at a very short rate. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] My time is running out. I would like to tell you that in these contexts my intention as Deputy Minister is to work closely with the parties of the democratic arch. Turning from Luxembourg I intend to arrange, with the help of the government, contact with all the people you have and work on it. We'll be open to communication. The problem is a national problem and a huge one. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude with that, Mr President. At the moment, I repeat that the Left is friendly in these positions. I think, however, that the parties of the democratic arch also have to choose between the Europe of Enlightenment and Romanism or the middle people. They have to choose between what Juncker proposes or what other countries are proposing with tear gas, with dogs - guards, with prisoners - refugees building walls. It is up to you where you join. I sincerely believe that your choice will be easy. We'll work together to defeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Minister. I'm giving you some advice. As the Permanent Parliamentary Committees will be set up in a House by the end of the week, it might be useful to the competent parliamentary committees or the Co-authorised Parliamentary Committees to hold a special meeting at your request. There, once the Standing Parliamentary Committees are established, there will be a full time to discuss with the colleagues of all the parties. It will also be an essential debate. Thank you very much. Have a nice trip.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u78	Sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u79	Although under Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure - I do not read it so that we do not lose time - the former Members of Parliament, if they wish to speak, intervene in order, Mr Venizelos would be kindly, after my request, accepting to speak two, three colleagues and then speaking. So in the order I had yelled, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. John Stephen has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, thank you. Thank you, too, Mr. Venizelo. Listening to Mr Muzala, I have the feeling that in a few months' time we will probably be able in this Chamber, a huge humanitarian problem not to see it as a field of confrontation, but to see it on its real basis. I think that the vast majority of colleagues and colleagues are seeing it that way. In the past two days, but also today, listening to too many colleagues, particularly from the parties that have colluded, it came to my mind the tragic poet Frillachus and his work "Micro Alosi", where he was banished for a very simple reason: he reminded the Athenian citizens of all evils. That is exactly what Members and colleagues of the parties do, at least it is what they have managed to do. They remind of things that were loaded on the backs of the Greek people and SYRIZA is responsible for not deporting them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u81	Are you suggesting we have the same luck?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u82	Let go of me. You'll hear it, dear, Mr. Tasoula, where we are patriots. SYRIZA will be judged at the end of the four-year period for this, and by then we have too many years. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has presented in detail the government's programming statements at a time of critical and cohesive importance for the social, political and economic development of our country. It made the sense of responsibility urgent and necessary, which we must show in Parliament and in political life in general, in the very difficult hours to come and in the important decisions to be taken. Unfortunately, as I said before, the opposition block did not see our desire for a whole turn and a change of course for the country. It strongly refuses, despite the repeated messages of our people, to accept that the lawlessness, corruption, the involvement and the settlement of the 'days' ends. It hides itself in the face of the success of this government to internationalise the issue of Greek debt, the government's desire to build economic stability, the deep reform of public administration and the protection of weak social strata. But we, ladies and gentlemen, will stand up to the circumstances. We will be patient with the fight for open negotiations, i.e. for red loans, labour issues, the guarantee of the public character of electricity networks and the rational, profitable exploitation of public property. They are essentially issues that concern the vast majority of our people, the one that the previous governments ignored, hit and led to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, which the citizens did not forget and raised for the second time on 20 September. Apart from the open-ended issues of the agreement, however, the government turns its attention to strengthening the social fabric and solidarity between citizens, protecting the uninsured, accessing everyone to health structures and medical care, as well as the immediate recruitment of necessary nursing and medical personnel. It is only a few interventions that we are planning in the field of health. Depending on the sensitive area of education - in which I happen to be a teacher, a teacher - is required through a broad dialogue targeted and radical sectors, without class inequalities. Both primary and secondary and tertiary education need a new framework of evaluation and content. Our ambition is to support all children, equal access to education benefits, to develop research programmes and to exploit the digital environment. The government, ladies and gentlemen, will enter into a national dialogue on education. The bill that has been published will be part of this social dialogue. Listening to the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, talking about the importance and role of the teacher in the education of our children, the need to respect his work and academic rights, the need for the state for practical recognition of his social offer, the particular attention and care needed to establish a system of special education and training support for all children with special needs, the need to recruit permanent educational staff, the drastic reduction in the number of secondments of teachers in the field, political parties, self-government, the intention of legislative intervention so that all primary and secondary teachers can be in their schools before starting courses, changes in the analytical programmes, in school books and, where necessary, I feel more optimistic. If, in fact, these necessary changes in public education have the greatest possible consent of all those involved in the educational process and the political world, equivalent measures may not be required in very few years to abolish VAT in a business activity involving private education. We may have a public education - as it would be well to have a public health - where there will be no money to be able to enjoy them. And because I have one more minute, I would like to say something from boobs, which relates to a large debate that has been taking place in recent years with regard to substitutes and recruitments. Look, this year, although there have been delays, there is one 10% more Members recruited. But I sincerely want to say with all due respect to all of you and all of you that, before I resigned, to be a candidate for parliamentarians with SYRIZA in the Ioannina Prefecture on 12 January on the service council, in which I participated as an elected member of my colleagues, we have placed substitutes in general education schools on the parallel support. So it's very bad, and it doesn't honor us to lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u83	Thank you for the timeline, too. Mrs Vanja Panayota has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a new Member, as a man of the market, but also because of my profession and the region from which I am elected, I shall refer to the major issue of primary and productive reconstruction and how we in SYRIZA and I personally understand growth through it. The disastrous policies of recent decades have led to a dramatic reduction in the number of people involved in the production process, which has led to a reduction in production at tragic levels. For example, I say that domestic beef production covers less than 10% of the country's needs. They have led to a reduction in the processing of agricultural products and ultimately led to a dramatic reduction in agricultural incomes to levels of non-viability. As a result of these intangible imports of food products, which cost the country more than fuel imports. It is certainly not the SYRIZA who has led this neural sector to the present downhill, but it is the government that has to reverse this situation. There is no doubt that many of the measures provided for in the agreement on the agricultural sector are not positive. However, there is also some, such as the introduction of keeping books, which are absolutely correct and will lead to a reduction in the tax on farmers and a parallel increase in the tax for all kinds of intermediaries and posters of the area. In any case, the agricultural sector is one of those issues that is subject to change and improvements, and I am convinced that this government will take all the room for improvement. In addition to the memorandum, which we all know is that, under what circumstances and why it was voted on by SYRIZA, and not only - there is another approach, what we call a 'parallel programme'. Some people disagree with the term, but the essence isn't there. Personally, I consider that the policy of the government cannot and should not be confined to the implementation of the agreement. Some Members may find it difficult to understand, but this government intends to govern the country and not to act as the trustee of some other centres, as was the case in the recent past. For the primary sector, therefore, if we really want to move on to the necessary, as much as ever, productive reconstruction, we must, apart from any reductions in farmers at this difficult time, move on to some substantial changes that will restore justice and promote this well-being. So we need to: Firstly, we must make it clear once and for all who are 'professional farmers' in this country, and separate them from the incomes or the heterogeneous people. Obviously, everyone is useful, but not everyone must be treated in the same way. Religions of the system that led to tragedy situations, such as the one of pastures or the photoplasticisation of farmed areas, must be definitively terminated. It is really, apart from all logic, in the same state, three different agencies have different views on how many pastures in this country are. The proverbial inconsistency of the state must be immediately stopped in terms of the payment of European aid and compensation to farmers. At the moment we are talking about, there are farmers who have been unpaid for four and five years. And the alchemys of the previous governments on some temporary, particularly pre-electional arrangements, not only did they not solve the problem, but they have led to unthinkable fines. All citizens must understand that the services of the state exist to serve the citizen and not the other way around. They must stop having many-speed farmers in terms of aid. One, too, unreasonable and incomprehensible in the Greek state, is for farmers in the same region with the same cultivation, the area enhancement of one another to be thirty times greater than the area enhancement of the other. The state must stop being indifferent - and this is very important for the SYRIZA Government - to the unspeakable fraud of the perpetrators who import, import illegally or distort agricultural products by misleading the consumer. At the same time, the country is losing huge sums of tax evasion and tax evasion. The rural world must be given access to the credit system immediately. I will conclude by saying that we must definitively finish the old, bankrupt and sinful cooperative scheme and lay the foundations with a clear and fair legal framework for a healthy cooperative, cooperative movement that will solve problems for many and not for the system's chosen ones. There are too many things that can be done, along with the implementation of any programme required, so that productive reconstruction in the primary sector can immediately begin, without even requiring huge funds. No one has the illusion that problems and pathogens end in a few days or months. But I am convinced that the time has finally come for us to change course so that the country will come out of this war, but without people, their lives and their dreams being leveled. It's up to us. We have no right to fail. If we fail now, the country will have failed. And I'm afraid he won't have another chance soon. With full awareness of the situation and as far as my responsibility is concerned, I am voting in favour of the government's programme statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u85	Thank you for saving us and two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue as follows: Mrs Canelle and immediately thereafter the President, Mr Venizelos, will take the floor. At least three colleagues - I say this because I have been informed that Mrs Papayannakis might also come and ask her to intervene - they will speak after Mr Venizelos. If Mrs. Pappiga comes, all right. Otherwise, as we have said, we will reach Mr. Bored, and I will give the floor to Mr. Katrugalo. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask publicly whether one can talk about a democratic arc and open a democratic arc using the verb 'the European Union should go on the spot to choose immigrants'. He fantasizes, he sounds, he's a piece of toxic democratically. It refers to a toxic democratic arc. It cannot refer to a normal democratic arc and we can discuss it seriously here and open matters worthwhile to the Left with ease of accepting such terms. The ideology of the effectiveness of a refined mengelism in migration cannot be introduced. You have proof: Europe is changing. Of course it's changing. It is expressed rapidly with a social democratic or neoliberal character in common. That's why he openly supports governments like Poroshenko. It's changing. How doesn't it change? We have seen the fate of the second and third generation immigrants - not the current wave - in the ghettos of France and the way they were faced with the exacerbation of racism and the reintroduction of modern Ku Klux Klan to the United States, in its homeland, on the root. It's happening. Of course it's changing. What's our proposal? Will you accept hot spot, which means the first crib, the first sort? Are you going to create the problem? Will the Syrians who have been classified as refugees flee and the rest of them stay here? We have heard - we hope we may also hear tonight - a talk about Dublin. For Dublin, the JRC has been shouting for years. If Dublin is not abolished, no one will be able to provide anything but innovative business income for a private initiative in the provision of services. At the moment, refugees are literally being used by the European Union's dominant imperialist policy, as was the case with some of the 'Arab Spring' throughout the Mediterranean basin and as is currently happening in the Eastern Mediterranean, in order to create those conditions. That is why we have tolerant of the rise of fascism, with many garments in Europe. But we have a history in a Europe that has changed. Has he taken any step since the day of Dalema, Elias, the bombing of Yugoslavia since the treatment of the concept of asylum? To talk today about things that change? In what progressive direction? Cheap workers. Selected. Will the advanced countries come and what will they get? They'll get the good heads. These, which are scientifically equivalent to our output of young migrants outwards. Even internally we have come to not making a class approach to what is lost from the country by emigrating, but we have also done qualitatively. In the past few years the poor were gone and worked in the German factories. Now we leave our heads. We have adopted this inwards. Is that a democratic arch? Is it a left approach to what? Mr Tsipras must respond today to what he has agreed with our Natian allies for joint control with Turkey in the Aegean Sea under the supervision of FRONTEX. They must answer us, otherwise the 'Funny's' will be raised with 'what moves are slaughtered'. They will find room for getting out and exploiting and acting as a lever for the pressure and deterioration of society, even in its more progressive form and approach to solidarity. What are we gonna do? Are we going to build private companies and non-governmental organisations together? We're gonna build them to feed them, water them, face them like that? Why? Do we do it how? On the level of justice? The basis for Europe's determination is its anti-communism, the theory of the two extremes, and the emerging and strengthened racism today. It is based on the Council of Europe. I am a member of the Committee on Refugees, along with other colleagues. We see it coming and institutionalised, on the occasion of Dublin, on the occasion of a cosmopolitan, supposedly, a humanitarian crisis approach created by the capitalist interests in which the country is taking part. The government does not refuse to participate in the wars that produce them or in the interventions they are produced. We're just about to talk about Drones. The refugee is produced as a refugee and as a drama either bombing an inspiring moving plane with a pilot or bombing a Drone, i.e. unmanned. And we're bringing the unmanned to Castelli? And send them to do what? Supervising the border and the rotten boat, which is cut off and gasoline loaded only halfway? Are we facing the immigration issue with humanitarian, romantic criteria without hitting its root, which is a deeply political issue? The government participates in all those formations that produce economic interests for capital. They produce a huge chain of cheap workers, despised hands, manipulated at any time, plus the terror of creating a reaction with nationalist fascist implications, so that the local populations, who are suffering, can also be controlled. Our proposals were specific. Many times all institutions. We haven't heard. There are state buildings that could be provided. There is a unilateral possibility of abolishing Dublin, granting all those necessary structures with European Union money. You have trains. Why do you put them in Eidomeni in the hands of the first fascist, out of the border right now? Can't you take them from Piraeus with dignity, under the responsibility of the UN? Two issues are open. Both of them have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u87	Mrs. Canelle, just a minute, I'm sorry. Mr. Photographer, please get pulled out because you're teasing some cable and erasing the canal. Go to the side if you want, to the next gallery.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u88	I want to speak sideways! This is the first time that this has happened to me, Mr President. I'm learning. I'm getting old. I'm being taught. I can and can do it, you're absolutely right. I do not want to create this issue. Listen to me, the issue of refugees is extremely dangerous so that they can only be treated with emotion. It's very nice and very impressive. It, however, turns people into negotiable mass, and this has nothing to do with the government's decision to remain faithful to all those formations that allow modern trafficking in people, the cosmopolitan perception that wants the offspring of wealthy families to build houses for poor people and to give money to even poorer people and ultimately to blackmail and force local populations or societies or communities or squares that must be shown by the excess of their unexistent class status within the capitalist system of everything that has been abundant in order to be able to stand. It is very nice to make articles and conversations. To take the cost and responsibility for real innovative policy towards imperialism does not only involve charity towards refugees. It involves a man who does not jump on his own over profits, but produces, owns and has the profit of his life and his labor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u89	Me too, Mrs. Canelley. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday when I was listening to Mr Tsipras presenting the programme statements, I was wondering whether he had at that time remembered the programming declarations of January, the climate of irresponsible enthusiasm which prevailed at that time. I was wondering whether he remembered about fifty Members of the previous House, absent from this House, if he remembered Mr Varoufakis, Mr Lafazanis, Mrs Constantopoulos, that is to say if he remembered the assurances, grandeurs and contempts of a memorandum, which would be cancelled on a one-sided debt, if he remembered the easy great lies of the last five years and the election period of January. Did he remember his hips 'no', which turned the next day into 'yes', in the third memorandum, the Tsipra Memorandum, the worst of all, based on asymmetric overtaxation: 90% tax measures and just 10% spending cut? I was also wondering whether it had been informed of the preliminary draft budget submitted on the same day by the Minister of Finance, for the assumptions of the preliminary draft budget, of the deterioration of the situation in the eight months of 2015 in all sizes, if it had been informed of the return to the recession forecast for 2015, but also for 2016, of the return to the primary deficit, of the rise in unemployment and of the first instalment of charges to citizens, which exceeds 4.5 billion and will be repeated again, unfortunately, in the next few years of the memorandum. What did he say eight years later? The left one that told us is that after working with the ANELs and Mr Kammenos, he is drafted with European social democracy in the fight against neoliberalism in Europe. This is the impression of the relations in the European Union, which are unfortunately not ideological-political correlations, but are primarily State-run and national. They are correlations between intergovernmental and national interests. He also told us his new vision, which is the successful first assessment, the recapitalisation of banks, the parametric changes to the debt under the 2012 agreement, that is, he presented as a target everything that we have been saying all this time and was slandering us and slandering us. This vision is too poor and too conservative, no matter how you permeate it. It is not even the vision of an integrated national reconstruction plan that mobilises all the nation's creative forces. Now, you see, there are no easy municipal promises. There are commonplaces, vagueness, trivialized announcements and some hollow threats: The new regime, which wants to be imposed against the old regime. That's how he named the old, old regime, ancien regime, Mr. Tsipras. It imagines a state-of-the-art change, without ideological and political content, but only on the basis of sound power management. The power of all time. This is the only coherent fabric of the new situation. I have seen the warm applause, not only from the government and the parliamentary majority from the old government and deep PASOK. I saw the enthusiastic applause of the ANELs. There is no ideological and worthy basis. There is only participation in the prefecture of power. I have also seen the applause of the right-wing government officials who took part in the Karamanlis government. The big problem, of course, is the same heterogeneous figure of 35.5% of the votes taken by SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, this government, with the addition of Mr Kammenos, has since 1974 been the government with the lowest electoral power. There has never been a government with so little electoral power. But most importantly, within the ministerial rate there are confusing contradictions, just as confusing as those of January, despite the cut-off of Mr Lafazani and the People's Unit. They voted for those who accept the turn as the only possible and see how dangerous and impracticable the previous positions of SYRIZA were. Those who expect that what has been agreed will not be respected through the infamous course of the equivalents. They are those who fully disagree with the agreement and the memorandum, but they simply want to be close to power. That is why the system of power cannot stand. It's sceptical and contradictory. Mr Tsipras has unfortunately made the choice to go as head of a heirly group of power, which is formed around his face and not a nationwide effort to reconstruct. We suggested it, we insisted, he rejected it. Look, the country will be dragged, the loose end will be maintained. From January to the elections I warned you of this step forward for everything that happened. Unfortunately, they happened as we said. Now they don't even need warnings, because the Greek people made their choices, knowing everything. The peoples are masters of their destiny. This is the tragic relationship between democracy and history, the relationship between the events of time and the situations of history. There is now the new genocide, the debt. The theory is always that the country's problem will find an exogenous solution. The problem of the country wants an endogenous solution, internal conflict, consensus, work, plan, conducive production forces, development, investment. I'm giving the preliminary draft budget. I brought you features on page 49 of the preliminary draft tabled yesterday by Mr Chakalotos. I put it in the Minutes of plenary. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Venizelos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It says the preliminary draft: They were worsened in 2015 on our Government - on the Government of Tsipras - all sizes. The 2009 deficit was 15.2% of GDP. Mr. Tsakalotos admits it with Mr. Juliarakis. We had a drastic reduction in debt service costs between 2010 and 2011 by 62% of GDP. We reached the level of 3.1%. There is no greater formal assumption of the impact of the intervention on the debt in 2012 and the destructive PSI. I see here the commander of the IKA. How can IKA have benefited because it has applied our directives, and other funds are supposed to have been damaged? A hundred billion has taken over the funds from 2010 until now, the years of the crisis. Now what do you want? Extension of grace period, extension of the repayment period, conversion of variable interest rates into constant, as we said, what we have agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u91	Since '92...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u92	You won't be having any trouble. The country will take these things as long as we achieve our first assessment. These are agreed from 2012. But you were saying. And, by the way, what about the cash reserves of the insurance funds and the legal persons collected by the Tsipras government before the elections, during the period of cash hardship? [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] These are 13 billion in repos and tactical bills. When are they coming back? Will they ever come back? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Why does the draft not reflect the debt and in net present value, to see how much the reduction we have achieved in net present value? This is the country's big negotiating weapon, not only with creditors, but also with markets. You say: We will change the administrations of the banks if banks are recapitalised with state money. But what administrations? The two are appointed by Mr Drasakis and the two other shareholders, those who put capital in the recapitalisation, but of course, if any of them are identified. Now the banks leave the control of the Greek state. That's what Mr. Tsipras signed. They are under the control of the European institutions. The state pays 25 billion for the recapitalisation, while it lost 25 billion from the old portfolio, i.e. it actually bears 50 billion and loses control over the shares, in the prospect of a share rise. You give the promise that red loans will be set and people believe that there will be seismicity, while control now, with what Mr Tsipras has agreed, comes to the creditors, who hope they will behave in an institutional and transparent way. Finally, transparency, tax evasion, canalarchs, media. But why did you delay an entire parliamentary term to bring the law? Why are you constantly threatening and not regulating? Why do you keep the matter open? Why are you involved in a game of power and you also fail to understand the distinction between powers and you expose justice. You have initiatives and movements of independent justice as government, which is tragic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, we have already reached twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u94	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needs a comprehensive national reconstruction plan and not an old-fashioned state. It needs a state of pro-development, a pro-investment and not the one that presented in its well-known conversation with President Clinton, Mr Tsipras. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, through structural changes and fiscal stability, to activate the forces of the nation. You said arrogantly the next day of the elections: 'We have a self-sufficient government with a hundred and fifty-five Members of SYRIZA - ANEL'. So you also have a self-sufficient parliamentary majority. We have proposed major national choices and consents. You rejected them. Now we do not share with you the responsibility of the small party choices made by Mr Tsipras and his staff. Our task is to exercise opposition as a fundamental element of democratic balance. Our task is to defend the national interest, which is identical to defend the truth and common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Emmanoulidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the lion's sake. In attending the meeting today, I heard Mr Athanasios. The set time was six minutes and took twice as much time. The previous speaker, Mr Venizelos, has made a provocative misuse of time, and I ask: is equilibrium a element of democracy, yes or no? That, finally, is how we understand the concept of democracy within this area. I come to the point, ladies and gentlemen. We have come to stay and face the loose ends, the arrhythmias, the diseases that have accumulated throughout the post-government period. The alternating parties of the New Democracy and PASOK with their politics led the country to know. Indicative samples of this situation are the complete de-industrialisation, the chain shutdown of sugar factories, the closure of the ESA, the closure of the chemical fertiliser industries, the complete dismantling of the textile industry that composes this nightmare of de-industrialisation. As far as social behaviour is concerned, we have the social exodus in the area of insurance and retirement. The steps of this cathode, pension and insurance, are known to all of us. The first step is the glove of the Stock Exchange, as the reserves of the insurance agencies were thrown north into the buffalo of the predators of the funds. The second globe is structured bonds. And the final blow comes with the famous PSI, which - and I do not know if Mr Venizelos has yet understood - was the complete destruction of a pillar of society, of insurance. So we have come to settle these loose ends, loose ends that led to the Memorandum bleach. The collective memory of our people, however, with a mature policy during the last elections, condemned the policy of the New Democracy and PASOK parties, denouncing faith and hope in SYRIZA, entrusting him with the difficult task of guaranteeing social cohesion and the reconstruction of our country's economy. It is a difficult task, admittedly, as we are called upon to build growth on social ruins. The possibilities available through Memorandum responsibilities make the project very difficult. But, ladies and gentlemen, we will succeed. We'll make it, because the hope for the redemption of the social nightmare is based on faith. We believe that the Left, with its political and social characteristics, can take our place out of this stagnation. Our net route guarantees it both as individuals and as collective. We are ensuring social cohesion, as all of our so far decisions in the previous seven-month government have had a positive social figure, are left-handed. We are also focusing on the area of productive reconstruction and development. Our compass in this project is the deep knowledge of the problems and prospects of the place. Production, however, beyond the central planning, serves more effectively when interest is gaining on regional development prospects and initiatives. Regional development must become the engine of the exit from the Memorandum. As a Member of the region, I am also aware of the problems and prospects for the development of the region. In the logic, therefore, of boosting productive reconstruction, I would point out the need to stimulate agricultural production, by exploiting the geothermal fields in our region. The use of these could create conditions for intensification of agricultural production, creating added value for land products. Our area, particularly rich in catches of both open sea and fish farming, must be exploited through the processing of fisheries wealth, by giving the necessary added value and thereby dealing with the explosive problem of unemployment. We would have a lot to note and put forward as proposals. We're leaving them for next moments. As I said - and I close with it - we are here to lead the people to the clearing of hope and to regain the place that belongs to the European and global territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u97	Mr Javarras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If it is something that impressed me by the words of the Prime Minister the other day when in front of the National Representation he read his Government's Programming Declarations, it is not as much what he said, as the style with which he accompanied his words. In other words, what impressed me personally was the Prime Minister's mental attitude to what he was saying and, above all, to what he meant. Because if we - and at least we have a few more terms here - were to think about what this politician's attitude was to the same issues - were to be seen from the position of Chief of Officership or from the position of Prime Minister who first announced programme statements in this Chamber after the elections on 25 January - then we would indeed understand - and you who heard me will understand - that it was a shadow of his first self. And why am I saying that? Because this enthusiasm was lacking, this patriotism on the left was missing for the fact that if this country were to be saved, this salvation would come from SYRIZA, from one, that is, nationalist leftist party, which has done in the last five years, is nothing but trying to convince the people that it was a victim of all kinds and kinds of elites and that if there are any people who have to support their dead people, these are the politicians, because they are the thieves, while the people are always the victim. That is precisely the ideological controversy of the Greek crisis we did not see it the other day. And that, at first glance, one could say that it is progress. On the contrary, while waiting for any Member to hear what vision is, what is the objective, what is the general direction, and what is the individual actions and actions that will be implemented, this programme, unfortunately, was disappointed - and would be disappointed, if he was trustworthy, of course - when he found that none of this is being done. Also impressive is the fact that he did not have the tender look of the other moments. It was clouds and contempt. One would say that he feels the heavy responsibility he has suffered. However, it would still not be successful if it were not the reason for the manager who came out of the Programming Declarations, which made him a bankrupt rather than a Prime Minister. And, indeed, I would have no reason but to continue to look into this, if yesterday's speech of a chosen scientist, whom I honour, was not in the middle of yesterday's speech, because until now I thought that he was the apostle of human rights, from whose lips it was heard that what the Prime Minister said and what he addressed before the National Representation, was a set of worthwhile commitments. And here things get confused. And more confusion begins when I then heard that what is proud of the side of Coupling is for the moral, left idiom, for the left ethos. But, finally, does none of you realize that those who invaded history with similar ideas have left on the black board either of integrations or those who have never understood what democracy means, have they not understood what justice means, have they not understood what truth? But how great an effort must be made in this place to understand that morality, justice, dignity, honesty are goods for us all, without discrimination on the left and right? You will tell me, however, how else you could have won in these elections, if in this way you did not make a leap above reality, in an imaginary situation, in a misery of desires and feelings, which, unfortunately, proved to be more convincing than a reason of responsibility that we shared as a New Democracy and which was not based on artificial divisions, did not rely on "old" and "new". In other words, to do this more specifically, I say that those who have occasionally remained in history for the introduction of a new situation, a new power, are symptomatic of totalitarian regimes. For the philosopheria of politicians on 21 April, Metaxas spoke of the old system and where land in any case these are the cases for which I think we all have to decide at some point that every policy will be worthy of opening up a spacious future in which we will all fit, if it is based on the truth and only on the truth. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u99	Mr Katsikis Konstantinos has the floor by the ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in today's first speech on my parliamentary route, I would like to wish you all and your individual good, fruitful, effective and creative parliamentary term, because 'times are not refreshed'. Opportunities have been lost, which need to be regained. Time is so condensed and threatening that it does not forgive any of us the least reassurance. Throughout this period of economic, political, social and ideological liquidity, which everything around us is variable, from the borders of states to people's migrations, the only way to stand is to strengthen the sense of security for citizens. The two other pillars that provide security, apart from the economy, are the Armed Forces and the stiff foreign policy. The submission of the Programming Declarations to the Plenary Session of this House by the SYRIZA - ANEL is taking place at a very difficult time for the country, having an important feature: the agony of the Greek people who, before fear of political instability, imposed political stability in the elections of 20 September. This verdict of the Greek people must be respected, so that we can proceed with national consensus and consensus in the resolution of the Programming Declarations, particularly in the area of Defence and Foreign Affairs. This neural and sensitive area, which is the koruna for the safe operation of the state institutions and the state machine, is the one serving from the position of political leadership by the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Panos Kammenos. His patriotic and national conscience promotes the element of our country's national strength and international status and action on the basis of military and economic power, social cohesion, fiscal stability and credible defence diplomacy. At this point let me stress that the security of our country is beyond parties and colours. It is security in Thrace, security in the Aegean Sea, security in the Cypriot Hellenism, and also in the Eastern Mediterranean, where we must absolutely protect our energy interests, with the priority of delimiting the Greek EEZ. The Syrian war and the refugee wave affecting Greece today mark new developments and instability in the area of Europe and the Balkans, which imposes the readiness of the Greek Armed Forces to the fullest extent against challenges where Greece strengthens its position, in addition to others, as a factor of security and stability in the modern international environment. Our program for the Armed Forces starts from human resources, with the aim of directly implementing the decision of the Council of State on justice in relation to the reductions in the personnel of the Armed Forces, but also an allowance for those who serve in the border regions of the country. Furthermore, it is planned to introduce a new special salary for the personnel of the Armed Forces in order to raise the high quality of the military as a recognition of their great offer to the country. That is why the human factor is the President of the Independent Greeks, the Prime Minister and the Government first. The introduction of principles of equality and transparency, but also equal treatment in the ranks of the military, eliminates the old bad political tactic which divided them into "losers" and others. A new institutional framework is established for the career development of officials, as well as for the upgrading of their education, in line with European and international standards. A appointed term of office of the Chiefs of General Staff shall be set up. Social benefits are upgraded to members of the Armed Forces, such as hospital services, residential needs, favorable banking services and others. They deal with issues relating to military settlement of irresponsibles and put criminal cases before 1997 concerning objections of conscience and which are established differently, with an alternative term. It is recognised as a countryside service - I am referring to the countryside of doctors' soldiers - the time of service of these soldiers, as they serve in islands and difficult, remote areas. Voluntary recruitment of women shall be established and the property operator of the Armed Forces shall be directly activated for the benefit of the Participating Funds of the Armed Forces personnel. With regard to defence policy, the effort is aimed at implementing the objectives of the policy of national defence, through legislative interventions and the mesh of administrative measures in the organisation and development of the Armed Forces as a factor of national power and effective force to prevent and strengthen defence cooperation with the Republic of Cyprus. In an extension of this policy, every effort is being made to ensure the sustainability of our defence industry, by maintaining its public character, of course, and by exploiting its assets, through the development of ODA and the Greek defence systems and other companies in the sector, with priority in the productive sectors, mainly, which are strategically important for protecting the country's vital security interests, but also by the liquidation of the outstanding compensatory benefits contracts. Defensive diplomacy as one of the elements that compose the image of defence policy promotes the creation of a grid of collaborative actions, diplomatic convergences and energy partnerships with countries - keys in the region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It strengthens our country's international role in international organisations and in existing allies. It is a credible axis of stability in the South-East Mediterranean region, and it promotes two important strategic objectives: firstly, strengthening NATO's southern wing to address new forms of threats in the region. Secondly, the creation of a stability arc in the south-eastern Mediterranean, including Greece, Cyprus, Israel, Egypt, moderate Arab countries, such as the United Arab Emirates, furthermore, and Romania and Bulgaria. The structures, means and human resources of the Armed Forces help address the humanitarian issue of refugees. Our relations with third countries are strengthened diplomaticly and economically. Finally, the fight power and effectiveness of the Armed Forces are increasing, through active defence diplomacy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, I would like to congratulate the Armed Forces' social offer and their participation in actions, for the benefit of the community as a whole, such as the cases of natural disasters - with a recent example of the disasters in Skopelos from the natural phenomena - the suppression of fires, cases of investigation and rescue, of airlines, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Katsiki, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u102	Through DERGES, the potential of the Armed Forces is exploited for the benefit of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Katsiki, respect my tolerance. You said you were done and you weren't done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u104	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u105	Yeah, but we got to seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u106	I'm done, Mr. President. Let me make the choice, and I'm coming down from the Step. Ladies and gentlemen, the country, the Greeks and the Greeks are calling for a common patriotic line of national unity and co-existence. I therefore invite you to vote on the government's Programmatic Declarations, part of which is the defence sector, for which I have had the particular honour of speaking to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Bored by SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this House must achieve something that, in our post-political democracy, seemed almost impossible. So this thing is to complete its term of office. And during this term of office something must happen as a historical applicant. This is the House to ratify the discharge from the custody and commission of lenders. 'Enough is enough', which some of the lenders would say. Sounds easy. Is it? No, it's too hard. The Greek people, in the recent elections, in my opinion, accepted that there is still an up-to-date situation. He knows very well, even though the people are tired, degraded, I would say, and pessimistic. What does the Greek people not want? He doesn't want to see the continuity of sacrifices without any prospect. He doesn't want to see sacrifices with unequal and unfair distribution. It does not want to see the continuation of a hybrid which is this: in the crisis some, instead of losing and marginalizing, gaining. They must also contribute to the crisis. This is where the question arises: will this independent body of solidarity, which we say, also raise private capital? That's a question. Is he going to raise private funds? When is this finally going to happen? The agreement, honourable Members, is a last chance. But can anyone combine what I said with the suffocating frameworks of this agreement? Because at some point, this looks like a squared circle. This has to be done. It is what the people say, "Here I want you to be crabed to walk in the coals." That's it. In my own personal opinion, which I have set out, the agreement - and I wish to be very pleased to be surprised - cannot be replaced in its entirety with equivalents. We need to put some priorities in place. The insurance company? The job? The farmhouse? Red loans? What will be the proposals of counterpopulation in this? Won't he have any suggestions? Will it put it as an element of competition in the succession race? You can't do that. It can't be done! We agree with the equivalent presented by the Minister for Culture, even though it is traumatic. These funds could be used for culture. We need culture at this stage, not only as a comfort to the crisis, but also as a part of popular and national self-consciousness. But what can we do? We are at this stage that we need to draw money from there for another purpose. And now I'm going through something more pedestrian. The assessment and recapitalisation of the banks is essential. The Minister of Finance said so, despite the fact that I diagnosed a stress with the Minister of Finance about the exact amount of money his initiatives would have. Stress is justified, because in history even on the left some negotiators were used as riot victims. But, as he said - and I agree with everything - we will all be judged by the result. All of us, and when I say 'all of us', or we are going to be saved or lost - so to speak dramatically - is not just about SYRIZA, but about the whole political system, except about the so-called exception. The whole political system! This is a historical lesson and request. I would now like to say my opinion, because I too had a participation, if you like, in the area that I was serving in the previous House at international parliamentary meetings. It is good to open up and search for supports either in the United States or elsewhere, but, in my opinion, you must not forget that the issue will eventually be judged within the hard core of the euro area. Until this changes, we must not forget. Whatever happens, it's going to happen in there. In my opinion, the Greek people have understood it and we should not misunderstood the meaning of their vote. He gave us a vote because he diagnosed a genuine effort and because it was early to forget the mistakes of the old political system that led to this country. However, radical action needs to be taken, bold, because we have come to the sense of irrationality to say no to use a card to prevent our personal data from being seen. We can't move like this! One more thing. I think we should be convinced that we are not the managers of a misery, but the bodies of transcendent and change. Politics and politicians have been seriously affected. We've got to get back on their feet. We must show above all to young people that the parties are not bodies of law and redistribution of power into separatism from society, otherwise I think we have little chance of inspiring a new vision for the people. One more thing. The union should not be state-owned, as it used to be, or co-manager or co-government, as it later became, but a body for expressing collective interests and claiming. One more thing. I would like to say this in one minute, which I think has not been said so far in this Chamber. bankruptcy is not morally charged. The bankrupt is not morally unworthy. In the lives of peoples, like individuals, by tragically wrong practices at some point go bankrupt. There's the big bet. Suffering becomes lessons and you go forward. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Forward, because there's no choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u109	We will give the floor to Mrs Aleka Papagasa on the basis of Article 64 and will follow Mr Katrugalos then. Here you go, Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, even from the area of counter-population, following too many speeches, in spite of the infamously verbal criticism of the government, most of them ended with the "good success in the work of the government in order for Greece to succeed". We do not wish you success, because this will be damage to the Greek people. We do not want you to succeed, i.e. pass this anti-grass programme you have. If you want, can I say that 99% of the choices, 95%, 90% will be right? However, this is his general line. Of course, we must make it clear that we do not want you to fail, because you are incompetent, as some people have said, or why your partners have sold you, because that is what will happen. Genuine partners in the wolf alliance do not exist. Genuine friendship in the wolf alliance doesn't exist. We want you to fail, because you were prevented from going through all the measures, because you were prevented from being completely prevented from doing so. Others have succeeded in overthrowing them or at some point in the years to come may have some conquests. We are not talking about any Arab spring impression movement or other uprisings, which SYRIZA as a Civic Opposition supported with great pleasure. We are talking about a movement that its foundation, its consolidation, its stabilisation and its escalation begins from all workplaces and from the places of education. We are talking about a movement that has not only an anti-government objective, bringing governments up. This has turned out not to be impossible. We are talking about a movement which, of course, is fighting on the ripe, the specific, and the stricken problems that concern the great majority of the Greek people, will claim, set bows - if you want, I say, first, will dream, escaping from the one-way street - the people will come to power and not any other or other government parties. Of course, bet that there is more in Greece today of discontent, indignation and frustration. The discontent and indignation is explained, justified, yet justified. But it is not justified - and we will say so from this forum, although this is not a matter for Parliament - because the people not only did not use their power, but did not even try to use it. By 2009, even before the crisis broke out, the labour and people's movement - and I tell you, because you are a movement government - was in crisis. We had seen extensive and deep signs of degeneration and sepsis. In 2009 to 2012, something happened. There were the mobilizations, regardless of whether we agreed on everything, etc. It doesn't matter that much. It's important that there were mobilizations. When did the movement get back into trouble? After 2012, because you cultivated the concept "seat here, the poll will come, we will go out to government and solve all your problems". Another serious factor which concerns us very much and must also concern those who want to strengthen, develop the fires that exist today or any small fires that can light up - I do not mean, of course, fires in the literal sense - is that the main forces of the old coalition and SYRIZA have entered, incorporated, used the workers' and employers' mechanisms. Honestly, we would make ten volumes with specific examples through places of work. Leave these on an independent or unsolved movement. You don't need, if you want, government custody. There is employers' terrorism. You've been integrated. If you want, that was a factor we were so sure that you would not dare act on any of these left-hand slogans you had, because if you really wanted to come into a logical rupture - not as we call it, but in any case a softer rupture - you should have prepared the people, the movement, and not give them a final curse. Well, we're telling you clearly that you're going to do the dirty work that didn't have time for the previous governments to finish it, and you're going to do the new one. What are the levers of dirty work? Excuse me, of course, for using this expression. They are the memorials and debt regulation and attracting investment for recovery. Prerequisites will not only be the prerequisites of the memorandum. Each monopolistic group will put its own prerequisites, as they put on Skouria, etc., that is, not only the general, world, European, memorandum, but also its own. In fact - unfortunately I have no time to extend to this - the speeches yesterday by Mr Baltas and Mr Mardas are very characteristic of a modern concept - yes, for a modern perception, because modernity does not always mean progressive - which says: 'Look at all, whatever revival is made - unemployment is not tackled at world level, so the social economy must be developed by small business groups, with voluntary work or a fee of EUR 300 or 400'. Here we must forget what we said about a social state after World War II and about education, health, culture, training - they take it out of education - and social security. Mr Mardas mentioned the thermal sources, which in order not to run the water into the sea, we will join the tourism sector. Hundreds of thousands of Greeks and Greek women - because, unfortunately, the diseases associated with musculoskeletal problems affect women more - not only much less than those needed, they made use of the medical sources by 2009, but in recent years you have also cut these allowances, that is, support for the health baths. So now the Minister of Economy will talk about the thermal sources that Greece has. Not to say now about the others, about the archaeological museums and others, which are nuggets and which have been said as examples. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] But the main point I would like to raise is this: you say that you will also sell the country's geostrategic position. This is what all governments have done first. There is no government that has not done so and that has not come out to ask for investments, loans and so on. What is the country's geostrategic position? It is the Souda Base, the Thessaloniki Natural HQ, the European Union's Hellenic Business HQ in Larissa, the Multinational Coordinating Centre for Marine Strategic Transports at the OHIM, the Terrestrial Battle of the European Union, which is in New Santa Kilkis, the Advanced Operational Base at the Preveza Coast for NATO's flying radars, the new base that you are discussing - and not to say that it was granted only by Kammen -, the Volos Field of Crete that the Americans are asking for, the installation of unmanned aircraft in Crete lately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I ask you: are you saying that membership of the European Union and NATO is equal to peace and stability? We such peace and stability do not want it. And if Greece - as long as Greece - is preserved as a peace island, we do not want a Greece that participates in the massacre of other peoples. The 'EEC and NATO' are making fun of them! In this sense, the twenty-two of the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union are also NATO members. Of these six states that are not NATO members, the four are part of the Natali Partnership for Peace, which is more relaxed in NATO, and not just Cyprus and Malta. Why is there no peace and stability in the region? And if Greece is freed from them, but does not participate in these plans, everything will be lost! So you're telling us to fear your allies, our 'allies' - in quotes as far as we are concerned - not to fight us and stay inside these agencies that will get into Greece. Finally, I ask the Prime Minister a question. When Mr Clinton said to him: 'Mr. Tsipras, why don't you let the Americans buy cheap in Greece to sell expensive?' or "How will you handle this?" he didn't answer. Let's just let her know she didn't understand English. We who know moderate English and do not feel sorry for English or English-languages every day understand what he said. I think he'd answer backstage. He couldn't have left that unanswered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u111	Mr Katrugalos, Minister for Labour, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the object of my ministry is always the main battlefield between the forces of capital and work, with particular emphasis on the last three decades and the emergence of the most aggressive ideology of the markets after the 19th century, neoliberalism. It is indeed like a world war against the poor, the working class, the middle classes, questioning all the conquests of the 20th century. It is a war, as the second richest man in the world has said, Warren Buffet, who is won by the more prosperous than one thousand, perhaps even one in millions of those who are renegotiating the social wealth. This is because the inability to maintain the welfare state built by the three gold post-war decades is not due, as they are trying to convince us, only to unfavourable demographic developments, but mainly to deregulation of the redistribution mechanisms created at the time and the fact that, especially in the field of labour, all the protective framework for guarantees and rights which the working class had won with its struggles over the last two centuries is being rejected. And in the European Union, especially since the Maastricht Treaty, neoliberalism seems to prevail as an official economic ideology. The need to defend labour conquests and the social state, which is, in itself, a political task that is difficult at the current juncture, therefore, becomes even more difficult as a task for a country, such as Greece, which is in a memorandum. Because, badly lies, although it is obviously much milder adaptation than previous ones, the memorandum remains a basic neoliberal text. However, we do not intend, like the previous speakers, to legislate by mail nor do we intend to deal with what comes from outside, precisely because neoliberalism is not our ideology. That is precisely why we negotiated the way we negotiated - I will tell you what we won - and we intend to continue to promote policies that have left-handed and social value. I am going to talk to you in general about labour, institutional and insurance, because our individual proposals, active employment policies and unemployment protection will be discussed by the Deputy Minister, Mr Antonopoulou, and the complement to what I will tell you of a new social protection system will be spoken by the Deputy Minister, Mr Folios. As far as labour is concerned, contrary to the past, which was an overall agenda of deregulation and full flexibility of labour relations, the new memorandum merely provides that we must legislate in the area of interest to us, the reintroduction of collective arrangements and the areas pushed by the agenda on the other hand, the trade union law and collective redundancies, according to the memorandum, says the good European practice. It is obvious that, when we talk about good European practices, we have in mind the European social model, as it is obvious that many of our partners, in particular the International Monetary Fund, have the famous agenda of Washington's consensus on continued and complete deregulation. It seemed here during the six-month period that it is not possible to have a social Greece in a neoliberal Europe and that the effort, in order to have arrangements of this kind we want at national level, cannot be disfellowshipped from the efforts we have to change the correlation in Europe. Are there any results at this level? Despite unfavourable predictions, this six-month negotiation - and although it did not end as we would like - gave a different example, alternative to the dominant neoliberal orthodox, the only economic thought. We are already seeing long-term changes in the correlation of power, particularly on the left of social democracy. It would not be possible to elect a man like Jeremy Corbin in the leadership of the Labour Party in the UK, if social democracy and especially its Left did not generally rethink the prospects of its policy and did not realize that, if he continued to match the neoliberal perceptions, it would have the fate of PASOK, very close to ventilation. Already yesterday at the Council of Ministers of Labour in Luxembourg together with the Luxembourg Presidency, we have promoted the institutional proposal that there should be a Eurogroup of Ministers of Labour alongside the Finance Ministers' Eurogroup, which will examine all relevant changes in the protection of industrial relations and the social protection system. Because you realise that it will be absurd for the Eurogroup of Ministers for Economic Affairs, as it has been done so far, to assess whether we, with our proposals, will respect good European practices in the field of labour. This proposal was supported by both the French Labour Ministers and the German Labour Ministers. Obviously nothing is given, as this is a conflict that is determined by what I have said to you, by the battle between capital forces and labour, and at international level the present force correlation is obviously negative. However, the breaches which exist and which our attitude has created throughout the past period are precisely the ones that we are exploiting, so that we make it as positive as possible for our proposals. And we're trying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u113	Like "AIR FRANCE"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u114	'AIR FRANCE' is indeed such a case, in which it appears that measures that dismantle the social fabric find the resistance on the part of workers. We want to be on this side of work. So what I am saying is that we in Europe are telling Europe that determining what is good European practice is not only about Greece. What we have decided to do today in this area will be done tomorrow in Rome and Madrid and shortly in Paris. Greece is therefore the mirror of Europe's future in the labour field. Whether it will go in the direction that we want or in the direction that the capital forces want is mainly a bet that will be played here. And those who accuse us of small and medium-sized ones that we believe that we will change Europe from this small corner of the continent, have in mind that we are simply responding to an objective trend in Europe, precisely because social inequalities are at the highest point since 1929 and not only societies are unhappy, but also economies are falling apart under the state of this unique economic thought. For this purpose, then, tomorrow I have a meeting with the Director-General of the International Labour Organisation, which we have succeeded in the memorandum having overall supervision over the negotiation of how these famous practices will be incorporated into the Greek legal system. On Monday I have been invited by the European Parliament's Committee on Employment to present our views there, precisely because we do not want the negotiating issue to be bilateral anymore, between us and the lenders, but to have the European dimension that it deserves. I'd like to do a little parentheses before I go to insurance. I have listened with caution and respect - as always - to Mrs Papayannakis' speech. It was right to illustrate what is happening in the workplace at the moment. Deregulation and the crisis have created fear that even today's workers may see tomorrow the bollock of unemployment in front of them. That fear, as far as we can, we want to deal with it through the control mechanisms we have, mainly through the EIA. I also call on your party, which is in these struggles ahead, despite the obvious differences we have in other general issues, to help us deal with this whole working jungle phenomenon. Insurance. This is an issue that we are not going to seek to bring back to European regularity, in the sense of the European social model, precisely because our system and before 2010 was a fragmented system, very unequal, reflecting past customer practices, which did not provide adequate protection and based on many unequal rules. Even after the famous consolidations, in fact in the shell of IKA, previous insurance agencies accumulated, but retaining their own rules for calculating contributions and benefits. Take into account all of this the complete dissolution of the financial base of the funds, which the crisis has brought together with the reinsurance legislation of 2010, which actually worsens pensions... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would ask for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u115	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u116	We therefore have a system whose architecture needs immediate institutional change and whose resources, not only are not given, but have become fully non-viable as a result, on the one hand, of the high unemployment which undermines the system's collectivity - since the unemployed are obviously unable to deposit contributions - in conjunction with poor management, which has led to the depletion of the funds' reserves, in the final episode, indeed, of their being taken over by the PSI. I listened carefully to Mr Venizelos arguing. Because I had heard him in such cases, I had asked the IKA to give me the official information. According to the calculations of its financial service, 80% of IKA's securities, which had been invested in the titles of the Greek State, were depleted because of the PSI, which is not the main cause of the financial maliciousness of IKA and the other funds, but was the last drop that left over the glass. The opposing claims by Mr Venizelos - which run counter to the impairment of the IKA's assets by reason of the PSI's funding from the state budget - are not an answer to the argument of confiscation, precisely because the financing of the IKA from the state budget, like the other funds, is one of the conquests of the working class, already in the 1990s, through the formalisation of the tripartite funding. What are we going to do in insurance? We have commitments from the memorandum, which we will seek to neutralise through the overall reform of the insurance system. I asked for this in the negotiation and we did so, in other words, to replace specific commitments that we do not want to make, because they are contrary to our ideology and the benefit of the insurance system - such as the application of the 2012 reinsurance legislation, as was aggravated by the second memorandum, such as the imposition of the zero-duty clause, such as the write-off of pensions and the CSR - we asked and included in the memorandum as a possibility, as a general alternative, the reform of the insurance system. This is what we will bring to Parliament in November, in order to have uniform and uniform rules in the public and private sectors, of those that will restore justice within the system and sustainability, so that there are no pensions - tips, but that existing workers can also receive pensions. I would like to assure you that, following the conclusion of the Committee on Insurance, which will be submitted next week, there will be the possibility of a wide-ranging public dialogue so that these general guidelines can be specified. That will also be our response to the Memorandum Obligations, but above all to an undeniable need that has existed over the last four decades, to have an insurance system that is fair and effective. We will not impose horizontal reductions. The financial adjustment required by the Memorandum will be made through the new architecture of the system and we will ensure the redistributive nature, especially with the protection of small pensions, and now also in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Catrugale, it's already been four minutes. So, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u118	You're right. My last sentence. In the middle there will be a bill that will have socio-security arrangements, which is not what I'm saying to you. This concerns prerequisites for action, mainly for the withdrawal of positive n's arrangements. Date of birth: 4331/2015. This was one of the prerequisites that we were unable to avoid and we must also inform the House and the Greek people that this unfavourable development, the withdrawal of positive arrangements, will seek to neutralise it precisely through social reform. Finally, we must optimisticly look at the challenges ahead of us, precisely because the situation is so difficult. Reforms that were overripe over the past period can now be made possible. Two are the prerequisites: to rely on the mass movement to defend the conquests of the past, and to try to change, as far as possible, the international and especially the European association of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Christos Stakouras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, as you can see these days within Parliament, New Democracy is here. It is and will be here, as always creatively present. Although you sought to finish it, the citizens did not allow you to do so. While we could finish you in July and August, we did not want it and therefore did not pursue it. This is one of our fundamental differences. We always promote the long-term interests of our country, while you always have the short-lived interest of the party. You must understand that the deep roots of the New Democracy to the Greek people and the vindication of its great choices for the homeland do not allow the pursuits of politics over time, but also of its other opponents. As they have never been able to put it in time, so now they have not been able to finish it. And since life is usually avengeed by its fairness and arrogance, I recommend that you be more careful when you refer to the New Democracy, Minister, which is based over time on its rightful ideological and political core, that of radical social liberalism and the social market economy with harmonious balance and co-existence of economic efficiency and social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the left-wing government has read within nine months for the second time Programmatic Declarations. The fundamental difference: the present ones have nothing to do with the first few months ago. This means that the Left Government has no and no longer has an ideological and political core. He didn't have a plan for the country anymore. Justifications of the type 'we are applying, but we do not believe' are not serious. The truth is that any time-consuming soul on the left has given it up and has been lured from the "cheese" of political power, or have not seen the light or intentionally entered it. This crucial question will certainly be answered by life itself. I think it won't be long. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Government, in total contrast with what it has said for years and has done, is now actually putting forward the third memorandum and it is accompanied by a roundabout of formalities and equivalents. This Memorandum, the third Memorandum, bears the stamp of the Government SYRIZA and ANEL. I would point out that some months ago it was not inevitable. This is because, as the preliminary draft budget itself concludes, the country in 2014 had achieved positive measurable results. He had returned to a positive rate of economic growth. Her public finances were stabilised. Its competitiveness had been strengthened. They had been drawn - successfully again - resources from the international capital markets...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u121	You admitted that the funds were empty in February.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u122	It is true, however, that the economic situation was still fragile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u123	Why don't you answer? You should answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u124	What you want I can answer and I have answered in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u125	It's been empty since February.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, can I have your tolerance for a minute to answer? I can answer, but I'd like to have one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u127	Please! Continue properly, Mr Stakoura, and do not interrupt - please - Mr Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u128	But it is true, as I said, that the economic situation was still fragile. The confusion, the uncertainty, the creative ambiguity, the revolts, the ineffectiveness of the SYRIZA and ANEL government have exacerbated the situation they have received. Mr Colleague, according to the preliminary draft budget submitted by your government, the public economy has returned to primary deficits. Unemployment has increased. The real economy, because of capital constraints, has collapsed. The economy has returned to the recession. And since yesterday Mr Tsakalotos, referring to a point of my communication - I say you read well - says that the Eurozone is fasting forward, while Greece is backwards, has disproved this claim, I am submitting to the Minutes pages 8 and 14 of the preliminary draft budget, which say that the Eurozone is speeding up its development, while Greece is returning to the recession. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is extremely sad, strange, perhaps dangerous for the country, that the Finance Minister does not know what he has signed or deliberately twisted it. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the above, a new large amount of funding has been needed by the partners with additional budgetary measures to achieve a primary deficit this year. Financial measures towards new major increases in direct and indirect taxes and cuts in main and ancillary pensions and are subject to more. The left gold dust won't fool the Greeks. The New Democracy does not welcome the unfavourable development of things, but will not imitate SYRIZA practices. It will not serve political speculation on the problems of the country and the citizens. The useful strategies and course of the country will support it. The beneficial policies for weak and medium-sized social strata will support them. All other strategies and policies will not support them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Two comments. Firstly, because I was caused by my colleague, the cash we left you was EUR 2.5 billion. This is the official Communication from the Ministry of Finance of May 2015. But what, too, is the truth? It was precisely because of the collapse of revenue in December, January and estimates were and for February, the country would have serious cash problems at the end of February, and this truth we fully reflected in the new political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. What was the new political leadership of the Ministry of Finance in February? Instead of running to close the deal to get the money to deal with the problem, it took four months to extend without demanding a single euro, because the dignity of the country was foretellable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u129	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u130	Irrespective of whether Mr Varoufakis from four months later said that we were wrongly given the extension. That's the truth. And second truth. Two very brief footnotes. Yesterday, and while I was absent from the Chamber, Mr Tsakalotos made a personal designation for my face. I would point out that, firstly, since it is a Voltaire scholar to inspire the benefits of his words, such as, for example, 'My dear, it is not the time now to make enemies', and secondly, to take his personal comment as an attempt for intelligence. Obviously it is one of the things he has traded in Eton and Oxford for decades with his fellow aristocrats. With a friendly mood, but also sincere grief, I recommend he be careful. And this, because we at the High School of Kipseli, at the National Technical University of Athens - and the Prime Minister is well aware - but also at other universities outside Greece, have learned that the genius, to be successful, prerequisites innate courtesy and intelligence from the person who formulates it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u131	Mrs Triantafylle Maria from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the recent elections on 20 September it was called upon to produce something political or just to be a popular election, what percentage will each party get? In recent elections citizens were asked to answer a main question. If they would allow us to stop the course on the road opened by the Greek people and they are about to walk other peoples in Europe and the world or do the thanks to the most conservative circles of globalised financial capital, acting outside Europe, in order to transform Europe into a Europe of banks and the most destructive forms of capital. What conflicted these seven months of governing the SYRIZA - ANEL? In simple terms, the old and the new. Who won? We need to respond clearly. The old won, temporarily. A battle has been lost, but not the war. We were, in fact, taken seriously, not because it made more resistance than the resistance we expected of the financial fund, but because we are not as prepared as we should be. Because debt is a tool for subjugation and manipulation of countries and in this European Union you cannot win, as anywhere you cannot win if you have no connections. SYRIZA knows people are disappointed. He's interested in seeing how heavy the defeat we've suffered is because he's the only party he's fought for. And I say this without the mood of masturbation, because I know and know that there can be no break or any change if one does not take responsibility for the debt to organise it. As long as the Left does not take political initiatives, so that the people will come to the forefront, the clouds of maintenance and central leftoverism, which has been rightly said to be a structural component of the political system, and it is not just a matter of shifting to other positions more conservative. It concerns structural features of the political structure and the state, and the centre-left is a form of management, which ultimately leaves the systemic features intact, perpetuates and protects goals and functions, manages in a more sensitive way the basic problems of governance and of political life, so it entangles forces, so we must not have anything to do with it. Is that the risk of central leftover? There is and is another pillar for the left parentheses. Because left-hand parentheses doesn't just mean losing the election. It has other versions equally, perhaps more, dangerous. One is the central leftover, another is 'I let others apply memoranda that they know how to do so and agree'. No responsibility, however, for the Left, as well as no danger of getting her hands dirty. This last point, of course, like both previous ones, I personally oppose it, giving the government a vote of confidence on one condition. There is no fight, no form of struggle, no parliamentary struggle without the people. In the past few years, SYRIZA has given written samples along with the people, giving them struggles, without riding him - after all, every movement is foreign to any factorism - and I think that the most important reason is that the Greek people have again honoured SYRIZA with their vote. On these conditions, with these considerations, we have to look at it from now on and it should only be in the front. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to make a little mention, as far as I can tell, of foreign policy issues. The international tension is escalating and the European crisis is growing. Messages coming from Ukraine, Gaza, Syria, Iraq are erasing an environment more warlike than ever before. There are extremely unfavourable conditions, therefore, and regional wars and geopolitical and regional turmoil and energy exclusion practices and our country is in the eye of the cyclone. Neighbourhood Turkey, which measures difficulties and losses to the east of Cyprus, which is at times moving towards the question of Cyprus's Cyprus EEZ, or is increasing pressure on bilateral solutions in Cyprus, is obliged to deal with Kurdish or even prefers to move to the Aegean, possibly to Thrace. What is Greece's position in this complicated, dangerous geopolitical setting? In this context, our country is directly affected and is already paying the price of a new international acidification. Many Members have spoken of the refugee flows, each one expressing his opinion. The main thing is this and we have to say it: Imperialism is a refugee and we have to say it again. Imperialism is a refugee, and all the rest are secondary. How we deal with this will be discussed, namely how the refugee flows, which is a pan-European problem, should be tackled, but we need to find the cause. In SYRIZA we are talking about a multi-dimensional, peaceful, active foreign policy, which, in order not only to be a title - a word, must have some features. In my opinion, the first feature is not to always move blindly into the pursuit of powerful allies. The second feature, the most difficult perhaps, is that certain balances must be taken seriously, but clearly making it clear that the transition of the economic crisis to regional economies must be halted, and also the deadlock of regional warfare must be stopped. Today, when we have lost the opportunity to control our finances, which are not only painful measures, but is an attempt to redistribute capital, which is a regime and the country is caging because of all the earlier choices, today, where the question of independence is raised emphatically, I think this House has the duty, the great debt, to try, together with the Greek people, to deprive the country of all the previous ones. He needs economic stability. The Prime Minister has said, as has many colleagues. Really, when was he disturbed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u133	Mrs. Triantafel, please. You need to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u134	Thank you for your tolerance. But above all, political stability is needed. What does that mean? It means reconfidence to the state and not just to the state. It means a real conflict with corruption and plausibility. Finally, I think that two - three things, such as dialogue between citizens, critical thinking, education, are weapons to be recovered and used immediately to change Greece. The last, but more important, is our insistence on solidarity - not on charity - of those affected and affected, but not on the head. Through this simple, but so important and substantial process, those demands will be created, that enrichment, those proposals, which will not only increase social cohesion, but will best enrich our own political programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u135	Close, Mrs. Triantafel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u136	His focus must be...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u137	Not any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u139	Mrs Zaroulia Helen has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u140	The third left memorial is a fact, as is also a fact, that it continues to grant national sovereignty and impoverish the middle and bottom layers of society and does not touch the people who possess this place to the minimum. In the last few months of the government's euphemism left we have seen no rupture with pluralism. We've only heard Marxist coroners without any resistance. So we have seen pensions shrinking and major contractors, for example, remain unavoidable. It has not been punished exemplarily by any great fugitive. On the other hand, we are experiencing the aggressive policy of the "left" government, whether it concerns people with disabilities, the most deprived or the elderly. And while the Prime Minister the other day referred to the PSI and the Stock Exchange - a simple report made, he did not propose - he did not say anything about the Lagard list, whose offences are being tampered with at the end of the year, in two months, that is, from today. Not a word, of course, did not say about the scandalous contracts with SIEMENS, which started when everyone was with the universal government and participated in both the JRC and prominent SYRIZA officials. Will the 2014 Olympics be audited? Rhetoric, of course, is the question. In his speech, too, the Prime Minister did not mention a word about the inhabited loan, an issue that SYRIZA had made its flag in opposition. We note that SYRIZA also uses elegant language as regards the country's sale to foreign economic conquerors, referring to a new Rating Fund - it says - the Public Property. In recent years we have seen how the governments of both the so-called right and the so-called left mean it. In fact, what is the difference between them, since the right and left vote on the same measures? How do they use public property? A characteristic example is the "Eleftherios Venizelos" Airport, but also other ones, such as marinas all over the territory. In fact, at this point, let us note that the great trusts taking our marinas also involve Turks. In his speech Mr. Tsipras called on Mr. Meimarakis to work together, as if so far there has been no good cooperation between the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the hand did not vote for ethnic drugs. Among other things, the Prime Minister also referred to education, multi-substantiated education by those who govern us, and said that SYRIZA will leave his mark indelible and seek democratic school. For how democratic the school will be, we have recently received a glimpse of an unauthorized state communication issued by ELME Corfu because it did not like the progressive election by our Member of the Golden Dawn, Mr Aivatidis. What you don't like, what you disagree with, puts a sign on it and marginalizes it. Indeed, it is highly democratic. You are consistent with the totalitarian regimes you believe in. More fascist than wanting to impose your own opinion doesn't exist. You do not respect the verdict of the Greek people, and you will barely impose your own views. So since you want to impose your own opinions, I suggest that you do them by starting at home. As regards the entry of illegal aliens into our country, you should take them home and thus give you the good example and not demand that the Greek people be in solidarity. As for the racist and extreme right-wing voices that the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech, I would like to make a point. They are not racist and far-right screams of those who are asking for the self-evident, that is to say they can open their window and not flood up a boot of urine and faeces. On the contrary, racist and left-wing cries are the ones who want to insist on the impoverishment of the Greek citizen. Those who represent solidarity 'will not even give their angel water'. They live away from the hump of the degraded Kentru, in a sterile, luxurious environment and criticize safe and uninjurious, of course, because we all know very well how profitable the whole operation of illegal entry into the country of foreigners is. After all, you do not hide it and you have said it is a lot of money that the European Union gives you. It is also worthy that these images are only seen in the urban districts of Athens and the co-chair and not in the rich suburbs. At this point I would like to make a complaint about a crime committed by the establishment of an immigration centre at the premises of the former PYRCAL in Lavrio. On September 29, 2014, I had asked a question about the possible installation of illegal immigrants at the EBO plant in Lavrio in the government at the time, and I did not receive a reply, because the then Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Fofi Genemata declared ignorance of the matter, while a few days ago we read in the press that it is a decision taken before the elections and certainly not on the initiative of this government, but also of the previous New Democracy - PASOK. And the most ignorant perceives the danger of this installation of illegally entering the country in warehouses where a total of two hundred and fifty tons of highly dangerous materials are kept, such as dynamite, AMTO, cartridges and explosive emulsions, since the buildings that are likely to house the identification and hosting centre are only a few metres from the facilities of the "Greek Defence Systems", where, among other things, the Patriot-air missiles are constructed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. I'd like your tolerance. The others have spoken much longer. Thank you. And a fire in the camp can have incalculable consequences. What's going on? After giving them citizenship, to secure your voters tomorrow, are you now ready to equip them already? The Prime Minister spoke of a crisis of ideological nature. At this point I will agree. Really, how do you, left-wing people, who call 'EEC and NATO the same syndicate!', are you now the same people who are interacting with capital and impose extreme capitalist measures? In his speech, Mr. Tsipras also spoke of civil movements. What citizens' movements? Those financed by NGOs for population deforestation by promoting it - in importing - 'globalisation'? Why genuine citizens' movements, which do not finance and live up to the problems of the movement of people hard on their feet, are automatically baptized racists, fascists and so on. So it seems that you left-wing people mean democracy! As for changing the electoral law, we have heard of this in the recent past, but we have still not seen anything. To conclude, a national government's first concern must be to ensure that its people are assured of food, medicines, fuels and weapons. With borrowers - and indeed with borrowers that do not end up with Greeks, but go to international loan sharks for interest and debt - there is no way we can never stand on our feet. The Golden Dawn, while remaining stable in its memorial position, bronze: "Not in xenophobia, not in subjection of the country with the memorial to foreign loan sharks!" Therefore, no vote of confidence will be given by the People's Association - Golden Dawn to this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u141	Before I give the floor to Mr Athanasios, I would like to say that there is a proposal from the Bureau to reduce speaking time by one minute, that is from six minutes to five, in order to speak as many colleagues as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, you did eight minutes ago six.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u143	Look, for you who are complaining - I am not personally referring to you - I say that many of my fellow Members who are not in the Chamber are now being abused of time. The Bureau is making an honest effort. You're asking for tolerance. You are talking beyond time, despite all the efforts we are making and reaching this point. We in the Bureau are making a proposal to this House. If you don't accept it, we'll continue as it is. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u144	The House has agreed. So the time will be reduced by one minute, but not by the next speaker, Mr Athanasios. After Mr. Athanasios is Minister Chironis. So from Mr Andrianos Ioannis, we will reduce the time by one minute. Mr. Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to say a few words without being a "speaking bracelet" and a "bulb arrogant" of the tenns that run into the downhill of cheap rhetoric and, indeed, erotomics, as the science of sociology has termed it. What do we have here? We have here a Prime Minister who says 'I will stick to the agreement that I have reached, to get two things first, to reduce the debt and to recapitalise the banks, which means adjusting the red loans'. Whatever it says, whoever says it, Greece will not see a white day, if it is not largely relieved of its debt, this debt will arrive at any moment at the end of the year at 200%. No country can bear it except for Japan. You will tell me that previous governors had succeeded in 2012 in extracting and recording such a promise. Mr. Venizelos said so. Yes, in 2012. Measure: 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015. Nothing happened. Snuff words. Will it be years again without doing anything? This is where the big difference lies and - let me say - the success of Tsipras. Thomas Vizer, pre-determined by the Euroworking Group - I will not say anything secret - said on 21 August that the debt debate begins this October. Yeah, this October. Let it be corrected by anyone who wants it. It's said, it was published, it wasn't denied. Five days later, Mr. Soible said in his letter to the German MPs that "VOLKSWAGEN" was a bad member of "VOLKSWAGEN" that "for the next few weeks you will hear any mention of a reduction of the Greek debt". That's what he used. "Before a dilemma you are voiced" Chancellor Merkel publicly stated that the debt service cannot exceed a certain percentage of GDP. And Lagard - again publicly - referred to two prolongations: prolongation of the ends and extension of the grace period. They're not symbols! They're our lenders. What were we living before? We lived his game of tieting a bone to a string, which you're struggling every time the dog's got to grab the bone. That's it! The dog understood the trick. Life trained him. I repeat the original question: What do we have here? We have here a Prime Minister who says he will protect vulnerable social groups. Is it first-time? But that's exactly what political culture is. That is exactly what happened in Finland and Sweden in the 1990s when they implemented austerity programmes. Sweden, along with the austerity measures, reduced VAT on all food and thus facilitated citizens, and Finland - hard times toward us - again in the 1990s - increased social transfers in the period of the austerity programme, such as children's allowances, expenditure on active employment policies, which have increased - mark -14% for each austerity year. From Finland let us return to Greece and the New Democracy. If New Democracy respected its history, it would remember that Costas Karamanlis won the election by saying: "I will not leave social policy to the exclusiveity of the Left." He would remember Kostis Stefanopoulos who proclaimed liberalism, but he was talking about "social liberalism". So he named him and meant him. She would even remember her founder, Constantine Karamanlis, the fiancé, who also writes in his book, became a member of the Socialist Union. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I am afraid that some would like to delete the founder of the New Democracy today because he had this sinful past. He was a member of the Socialist Union. But what am I saying? The New Democracy, moving from moderate positions, has herself deleted its founder. I heard yesterday from the President of PASOK calling us a disastrous government. "We have no confidence in you," he added. Nah, and what are you gonna do? Will you fire us? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Will you force us to resign like Mrs Balfusia? Do not deal with many words, gentlemen of PASOK. Characterize us infinite, unrelated and dangerous. This is how former President of PASOK, Mr Venizelos, the members of the State Budget Office in Parliament, said that the debt was not sustainable. Mrs Balfusia forced her to resign. Finally, I have a few words on Volkswagen. What does this have to do with what we're talking about today? Great. These idiots, the preachers of virtuous political life, the ones who moved our finger by saying 'in Europe there are rules and you must respect them', they violated the rules in the most horrendous way. The newspaper “FINANCIAL TIMES” begins on 25 September 2015 as follows: “It is unbelievable that the people of “VOLKSWAGEN” felt that they could get it out of hand with what they did”. We must send them a letter and tell them that for us Greeks it is unbelievable. The same and worse the "SIEMENS" in Greece made it clean. You see, the United States is not Greece. Eventually, gentlemen of counterpopulation, will you support the government effort, yes or no? I often hear here about a national plan, a national negotiation team - I heard it from Mr Venizelos today - for a national of Greece in power. National Greece yes, as long as it is not National Mykonos. A lot of good jobs have been arranged on this island. In the National Mykonos you will not find a simple Greek that agrees. So there will be real National Greece. But if you want National Greece, if you are not pretending, why are you voting against the government's Programming Declarations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too. Mr Chironis, Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people with maturity again gave the SYRIZA a mandate of governance. I regret to say that the anti-population parties are unable to interpret the people's mandate and I would be happy, because this is how they are led to the margin. But as a Greek I am sorry, because in the battle to overthrow the vicious regime that threw the country on the rocks, no one is more than enough. They often ask what we have in common with the ANELs. It's a very simple answer. We are fighting to change the fate of our country, and in this war there are class differences, there are net political differences, but there are national consensuss that are absolutely necessary. And I'm asking you this. Are the Swiss governments left to protect their villages from arbitrary construction? Why are their businesspeople gaining without violating spatial and environmental rules? Are the German governments, who turn the waste into gold, on the left? Tell me a country of developed capitalism that obliges municipalities, under contracts of twenty-eight years, to give mixed waste to big-workers with EUR 60 to 100 tons of tuna. I wonder if you finally understand, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the horrifying distances between your own governance and the governance of other right-wing governments in Europe. That is why I insist and say that it is a national need to move forward and to end with the old, old clientele of Mavroyalure. Allow me here to develop briefly - why the time has been limited - the policy of our Ministry. In the next few weeks - because we have had them ready and before the elections - we will have to change the institutional framework for waste. I would remind you that in the summer we put into effect the new national plan, which promotes the circular economy, creates a turnover of over 1.5 billion and 16 000 new jobs over the next five years. We are moving directly into legislation to speed up the preparation of forest maps, forest cooperatives, to amend Law 4178 on arbitrary diseases, to ban the cultivation of mutated prenatal modified organisms, to make use of geothermality. At second level, in the next six months, we are going to have an institutional review of forestry legislation, of hunting legislation, of planning legislation - and it is a major victory for this chapter to be opened with the institutions - the legislation for the NATURA regions, which will finally be able to be sustainable - because it is the first time that a government will finance the protection of NATURA in Greece, which has so far been only from European funds - for energy savings and self-production and for encouraging cooperative businesses in the field of renewable energy, for the enhancement of environmental controls, for the simplification of urban authorisation procedures. Beyond this, we are going on with strategic political priorities next year, with a two-year horizon for the definitive, lasting resolution of the problem with illegal HSY, with liquid and dangerous waste, which inertia of decades has led the country to heavy fines, to launch a definitive solution to the Apocalypse issue, for an energy policy with three axes: first, a rehab of imported oil, second, a rehab of imported pollutants and, third, finally, a rehab of lignite. Fourthly, we should also be able to resolve the Greek issue, make use of this space, based on the Polytechnic solution, which is the only really good solution and has been ignored for decades. We have the adaptation to climate change. Let me remind you that I said it last time. Based on the report of the Bank of Greece, 700 billion will be the cost by 2100. In front of us is Paris. In two months' time we will all be together in Paris, and that is where we need national consensus, to be Greece in front, which is from the countries affected. To work together, finally, all climate actors, which in Greece are fragmented and resources are being wasted. To implement the building identity so that the arbitrary construction can finally end. To make use of abandoned settlements and abandoned preservers, because such measures and will stimulate the construction sector, but above all they will upgrade the housing fabric. Such ruins do not exist in any capital of Europe. To unlock, finally, the general urban plans, the PLOs, the presidential decrees that sprinkled on the shelves of the ministries. Priority to the completion of the Stock Exchange is the need for which it is imperative. Finally, we have launched and completed the energy from the aquarium self-sufficiency of our islands and the definitive delimitation of the fields. I have referred to what we need consents, but let us not forget that consents do not mean a hollowing of political differences. First major political difference: we are struggling strategically for strong and effective public. We cannot carry out checks with fourteen poorly paid inspectors all over Greece. It is not possible to go ahead with building and building with thirty engineers. I ask directly, ladies and gentlemen. Do you honestly believe that the horizontal deforestation of the Ministry of the Environment saves resources for private initiative? Do you think that any businessman who pays his taxes and insurance contributions and respects environmental obligations can compete with the air-vehicles who don't pay a penny? Decide, finally, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Are you seeking Norway-type or Nigeria-type investments? Will you stop covering the illegals, supposedly in the name of jobs? What investments do you finally want? I ask straight, ladies and gentlemen. What businessman will invest in islands and mountain tumors that do not have hospitals and schools? You're stuck with the sole argument that, to make investments, it needs a profit. And you alone lead to the vicious circle that, in order to make profitable investments, we must ensure stability and growth, but, in order to bring stability and growth, private investment must be made. This vicious circle was solved in 1927 in America, when the crochle became. I would remind you that it was solved with large public investments, such as the 'Tennessee Valley Authority', which in 2013 closed eighty years - was established by Congress - with 11 billion turnover and 250 million net profits. Second significant difference: Strategy. You forget and none of you want to comment, perhaps because you ignore it, the important element from the Prime Minister's speech on the social economy. So I tell you that in dozens of countries today - and developing countries such as Mexico, but also countries such as France, where these enterprises exceed 10% of GDP - social economy enterprises that do not generate profits, but give a very good income to their workers, are in great bloom. Does it need to generate profits from a cooperative farm, which standardises olive oil and sells it directly at EUR 15 per litre, instead of selling it to Italian wholesalers with EUR 2 per litre? Does it need to generate profits from a cooperative business that ensures energy self-sufficiency of households or rural units? Does it need to generate profits from a social childcare initiative, which ensures an additional income for unemployed mothers? These initiatives and many others that are in our programme ensure thousands of jobs, without large investment. And third and most important, deregulation. Your strategy is based on the deregulation of the labour market, which does not only touch on employees in Greece, but on all small and medium-sized enterprises. We're talking about the death of the merchant. In your own sense, a great Mall in Greek is an investment in growth. Our logic is to close thousands of stores and turn traders into poorly paid employees. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In a minute, Madam President. With cynical openness, the first president of HIDE, Mr. Koukiades, in 2010, said in a conference that all these small stores should be shut down and commercial activity should go through a few hands. That was his view and strategy, and in that regard we have taken a definitive divorce. Recently, your candidate president, just three days before the elections, in a question I asked him 'but what is your economic and political programme?' - because he did not say, only for SYRIZA was speaking -, he replied to me "our programme is the memorandum". That was his reply, clearly and unequivocally. Well, for us the memorandum is a necessary evil, and for you it is a strategic choice. And here this difference is not bridging. I would like to end, to the ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, DIMAR and Potamiou, beyond trusting or trusting us, which is another story, respectable: say clearly to the Greek people in which you belong, to the camp of Mr Soible, who wants a paradise for multinationals, without democratic control and social cohesion, or to the camp that is being born today, which puts a democratic Europe and man and the environment above profits? Don't ask yourself why the Greek people finally trusted us again. While you are on two boats and do not answer this major strategic question, this will continue. We want wider consensus. I would stress that we, the Ecumenical Greens and the European Greens have chosen a camp. We took care of the camp of those who want to change Greece and Europe. Well, those of you who come!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u148	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u149	To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u150	I'll tell you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u151	It's not about you, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u152	Hey, how? You referred to the Potamian MPs and indirectly accused them, like me, of being something of Shoeble's.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u153	You don't even remember what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u154	Of course I remember what he said. So he said we belong to the Soible camp.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u155	It is a political view, Mr Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u156	The camp in Siomple belongs to those who sign up to Siomple Memorials, Mr. Tsironi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u157	Here, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor. You inaugurate the five-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, we have all listened carefully to the programming positions that the Prime Minister has put forward in his long speech, but also to the other government officials in their positions, and we have seen in the contents of these positions this very worrying paradox: While the members of the Government and fellow Members of the Co-Population recognize in their words the criticality of the situation when they arrive to speak about the measures and policies they will implement, they are calling for refuge in the well-known trick of generalology, slogans and declarations of intent. On the one hand, we hear little about the government's very specific measures in the third memorandum, namely, the result of the negotiation of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, measures of a binding nature, measurable objectives and often hard social consequences. On the other hand, we have heard too much - one and a half hours, the Prime Minister's prototype - has kept for vague intentions on the left. We have heard a great deal of talk about the government's attempt to hide its inability to plan and implement a course of exit from the crisis, and - and I would like to stress this - nothing has been said about critical sectors of both social and economic importance, such as culture and tourism. The few positive points, such as, for example, the commitment to continuing and completing economic controls on sports federations - an initiative initiated by me, at the time I was State Secretary for Culture and Sport - do not arrive. I would like here to stress the need to continue work on culture and sport by absorbing available funds from the NSRP and other sources, but also the Olympic preparation of our athletes. Nor should decisions on the abolition of federations with proven irregularities and irregularities in their operation be revoked under no circumstances. The Minister responsible yesterday used flagic designations and did not recognize, as he has done many times from this in Stepa, that on many issues such as dealing with violence, the licensing of sports facilities, the financial control of federations, the preparation of sport law, the implementation of legality, he has found a serious and substantial job from the previous government, which he continues to do. It is a pity, especially when we talk about an issue that must unite us, such as sport, to use these designations and these attacks and to level everything out. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens believed that the government would at least have matured through the failure of the seven-month negotiation. Of course, even so, the cost of this maturation would again be enormous, because you found the Greek economy returning to growth and, according to your estimates, the year will be closed with a recession near 2.5%. You found unemployment falling after years and you return to the vicious circle. You found primary surpluses and now you celebrate, because you're turning the country back into deficits. You left thousands of vacancies in schools - even in special schools - and thousands of children were left out of childcare facilities. Unfortunately, however, in the few days since the last elections, you have shown that nothing has changed at all. Nor were you matured or grown politically or severely. We saw it in the relics with the composition of the government. We saw it at the Prime Minister's failed visit to the United States. We have also seen it in the old days of VAT in private education, a measure which you, and not the lenders, have proposed as equivalent. We see it in your Programming Declarations these three days. We're clear. The most important problem and the issue at the moment for our country is growth and job creation. And that is where the current government has nothing to say. What is your proposal for investments that will create jobs? The establishment of another body with a government that has fought as an opposition all foreign investments, but also all reforms for a public more citizen-friendly and investors, whose ministers wish to fail the competitions for which you yourself were bound by the memorandum you signed and by a government declared enemy of entrepreneurship, which even today breaks up the same ideologies? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Our debt from the position of Officer Opposition is once again to ensure that the country and society avoid the worst, but also to convince citizens of a truly effective plan for the recreation and preparation of the place. We are talking about a plan that is realistic in development and ambitious, a plan to create new, but real, jobs, but also about ensuring the conditions that will enable the wounds to heal and correct injustices all this year to farmers, free professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, families, weak people and pensioners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy was, is and will be in charge and serious here. It is here to guarantee what the current government, from what we see and hear, is unfortunately unable to do for Greece and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Andriane. Mr. Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the social majority with the elections on 20 September gave us another chance, one last chance to unleash the place from the bad texts of Migration. Society, with its maturity, didn't blame us for doing the damn thing. He is well aware of the blackmail accepted by the Greek Government during the seven months of negotiation, as well as the painful points in the agreement with lenders. But he trusted us to safely drive the country to development, but with a social sign. It was with great responsibility that we continue the course that we started months ago so that we could finally get out of the vicious circle of austerity and comitology. We have in front of us in the next few years very important battles and challenges. The bet we have to win is the stabilisation of the Greek economy. We must make full use of the gainful ground in the agreement, lay the foundations for the country's productive reconstruction, with a view to returning to development, which will therefore lead to the restoration of social cohesion. The road will not be easy at all. It takes hard struggle, gravitation and careful planning. Political stability is necessary and small-scale toys do not fit into this national effort. The Civic Opposition, which was pressing for unconditional agreement, campaigned for 'yes' in the referendum and finally voted for the improved agreement brought by the Prime Minister, now comes and tells us what? That it's antimony again? That he would go against the European people's party to which he belonged and which had the gospel of austerity? That the debt that we were told until yesterday is unsustainable, now suddenly they realize that impairment is needed? Leave, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, these republics - of course, you also have your internal-party battle for the Chief's election - because only as communication games aimed at the inner-party vote can these things be taken. Beware, however, why the confrontation of centre-right and right-wing candidates can lead you to become antimony again, having voted for two memoranda, and losing as much political credibility as you have left. In the face of such political irresponsibility, we propose and put above all the people's interests, for which we will continue to fight with all our powers. We must defend a different model for economic development, outside the social-liberal neoliberal recipe, with the support of the world of work, with the redistribution of tax burdens and radical changes in public administration. Apart from the major battles before the government - the recapitalisation of banks, red loans, debt relief, employment, insurance and return to growth - there is a wide scope of intervention outside the memorandum in which we can make deep areas with progressive and radical orientation. We must gradually re-establish the state, far from great and small corruption, to bring revenue from the fight against tax evasion and corruption, which has tentacles everywhere, to the tax evasion lists, to public works and to their contracts, to public administration, to the political system. And we must be ruthless, regardless of political or personal costs and regardless of the communication war that we will accept and that will arise from the oligarchal system with which we must conflict effectively. Apart from a question of moral order and the collection of revenue from having and evaders, it is a people's imperative that the sense of justice finally be restored. The impunity, which rewards corruption as an intelligent one, must end wherever it comes from. The Law on the Responsibility of Ministers, the jurors of civil servants, the scandals of the triangle of sin must be finalised and irrevocable. As far as tax evasion is concerned, we should, in practical terms, aim, together with the other very well heard by colleagues, but also by ministers, and in the smuggling of fuels by means of an input-out system in both stations and refineries and in fuel warehouses. In addition, we need to strengthen the control mechanisms with trained staff, as there are thousands of cases of tax evasion that are being blocked as a result of a secondment. Sectors, planned planning, political will for practices in everyday problems are needed, aimed at restoring the relationship between citizens and the state, which so far has been treated as an enemy. For us the highest revolutionary act for the Greek reality is to stop the queues in public services and hospitals, pay the state on time to private individuals, even in part, is to provide the state with high-quality anti-christian services with modern electronic governance tools, with staff honoring its position and being assessed on the basis of its efficiency. As far as the agreement is concerned, we must always find the necessary countermeasures to alleviate the difficulties and inequalities arising from its implementation, to negotiate with society at our side, to convince creditors about the effectiveness of the equivalents and - if necessary - to unilateral actions, without budgetary costs, if they persist in neoliberal ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, priority must be given to boosting the primary sector, agricultural production, tourism and active support for research and business ideas by young scientists who migrate by thousands abroad, that is to say, supporting and supporting productive reconstruction in all the comparative advantages of the country. I come from a county, the Thesprotia Prefecture, which is blessed to have all that I have said, and tourism and farming and young scientists and even high quality ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Madam President. Unfortunately, however, it happens to be high in unemployment and youth migration, in low economic activity leading to suffocation. Our task is to support this new generation that some planned to be lost, to support the ages of twenty to forty, to which incentives must be given through the new NRP to join the production process, whether as young farmers or as entrepreneurs or by promoting mild forms of tourism, with transparency and linkage of funding and real production. It is very hopeful, as has been announced by the relevant Ministry, that the newly created entrepreneurship programme, a EUR 120 million budget, is launched, and will be allocated to two cycles to support investments of up to EUR 60 000 with an emphasis on innovation. Finally, we must distinguish and protect the main-professional farmers and avoid the horizontal tax measures, which equally affect the big owner and the small farmer. A progressive taxation based on income and assets criteria for the rural world. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state very clearly that we are giving a vote of confidence to the government to enable it with wider European alliances to continue to fight and open up paths of democracy and justice for the restoration of social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Katsey. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor for five minutes from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a comment, because Mr Tsironi and Mr Katrugalos have also referred to it, but other colleagues, to whether or not we belong. I think you shouldn't be confused. And you're confusing double. On the one hand, the Democratic Reconciliation, our MEPs, PASOK has always been where you know of the Socialist Party. It belonged to European social democracy, a European social democracy that you blame internally, but on the other hand, on the outside, you ask on many occasions for its support. And you know that by our own intervention - and here is the second confusion - the hardest times that the country has been going through and while you were talking about 'The Netherlands', Olad, the other social democrats were the ones who supported you. So it would be nice, because I have heard about the risk of centralisation, to look at the GUE, with the European Left, who support you and who do not, and to let the social democrats, who, if you like, often strike you on the shoulder friendlyly to point you out that it is abnormal on the European Left and on the European Central Left, a party on the left to cooperate with a party that has nationalist and far more extreme right positions. Let's come to our side. The Prime Minister's reading of the Programming Declarations signaled, in our view, the end of illusions. At the same time, it meant the final denial of the expectations of the Greek people, which SYRIZA carefully produced during the election period. The bad outcome of the negotiations is now visible and clear, as is the lack of a coherent and organised plan by the Government for exiting the crisis. However, no Greeks, no Greeks and of course no serious political power can rejoice about the situation in which the country has come, especially when the eight-month preceding SYRIZA coexistence - IF the wrong choices in persons and policies, amateurism, protracted in many areas, the impoverished obsessions and tragic omissions have prejudged today's result. That is why we expected the Prime Minister at least to recognise the mistakes here, in this Chamber, to demonstrate the awareness of the criticalness of the current situation and, of course, to promote the interests of the country and the people as a programme commitment to the major changes and reforms needed by the country. None of this has happened, as has not been the case in the Council's Programme Declarations. On the contrary, we have received the assurance that it will continue in the same direction, as he said, to seek a different path so that the policy can enter the wheel and not the economy, and that there will be a gradual restoration of the reconstruction of social cohesion. Who wouldn't want that? However, the political act is almost never followed by a dignified codification. It does not contain easy solutions, it does not make it comfortable for dire promises and fantasies in a disgusting future. The reality of the country is different and difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common place that the country needs directly from a broad programme of progressive reforms in the political system, public administration, justice and immigration policy. The refocusing of public administration by party, client-private, instability and accountability in the functioning of the State Mechanism, the establishment of Secretary-General of Ministries with a call and service, the assessment of structures and staff and services throughout the public sector, the recognition of incentives to worthy employees and the substantial upgrading of the National School of Public Administration are self-evident priorities for a European state of public policy reform. These priorities are urgent for Greece. But we did not see this yesterday in the Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations. On the contrary, we heard about new organograms in public administration. How much more? We have been counting enough since 2012, and there will definitely be more coming up in the next period with the continuing reform of the Ministries. On the other hand, we have heard about e-government, about digital policy with European resources and the National Register of Officers. Forgive me, I'll make a report. A first-year student at the National School of Public Administration had commissioned a study, he wouldn't have proposed you so poor and without any inspiration for a project. And yet there is an alternative proposal. You can even now, because the dear Mr. Athanasios... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, because I will talk about two more ministers if you would be kind enough to give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u163	Yeah, but we've got five minutes. If we're gonna do it seven minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much. And yet there is an alternative, as I was saying. You can even try today the consensus of all those who want to progressively reform public administration with merit and redesign of the state of staff and make a real incision. You can trust the work of the hundreds of thousands of worthy employees in the Ministries, who give their souls to their work, and create a secure assessment environment, without customer and party dependencies, creating social and political consensus. The same applies to the area of immigration policy and the management of refugee flows. The Prime Minister yesterday said that against the logic of walls and guards it promotes humanity and solidarity. I wish the current situation were so schematic and so simple. We first recognise that there has never been any serious discussion in our country over recent years on migration policy, its European dimension and the management of flows. Today, however, we are with other southern countries in the problem. As of January 2015, more than four hundred thousand refugees have entered Greece, two hundred and fifty thousand of them coming from Syria. The Southeastern Mediterranean has changed in recent years to an endless wet grave for thousands of refugees. For the image of lifeless Ailan on the Turkish coast no apologies are enough, no consciousness can be quiet and no wrath is enough to erase the guilt that burdens Europe and all Europeans. However, the management of the problem of refugee flows must all agree that it is a European case and Greece must deal with it as such. This means firstly that the lack of transparency for the guidelines for the migration policy of the European Union and Greece must be stopped through the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Papatheodorou, complete all seven minutes. It can't be done. It's at the expense of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u166	You'll give me thirty seconds, please. What we want to propose is this: we have to agree that the refugee flows from Turkey are not only a matter for Greece, but are relations between the European Union and Turkey. At the moment, too, we must support the maintenance of the external borders of the European Union, which is Greece's borders. Finally, what we need to see today, leaving justice matters for another intervention, is that the main body of positions and programming commitments is far from the real needs of society. That is why the Democratic Reconciliation does not give the government a vote of confidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u167	I would ask you not to exceed time. I've already been warned the Undersecretaries won't take the floor. There must also be a spirit of solidarity. If everyone does so much overrun, not enough Members will speak. Mr. Vettas from SYRIZA has the floor. For five minutes, Mr Vetta, let us give a good example.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u168	Because you're not in favour of horizontal cuts, I may need one more minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, should like on the occasion of the Programming Declarations to give some thought to this subject, of course, by transferring the little experience I have had as a Member of the Greek Parliament since the beginning of the year. Of course, I will see that it is general, that it is not special, because I think yesterday and today there will be significant reports - in greater detail, I mean - by the relevant ministers and their Deputys. I think that the national elections have ended and the mandate was extremely important, but it was accompanied, I would say, by statements - from all the wings - of the'second time left' type. You remember that very well. I think that it was also election and post-election sounded very much and was an important part of our political rhetoric. Sometimes these opinions or that phrase, if you like, involved an enthusiasm and an expectation. It's perfectly normal. Sometimes it involved one, I'd say, scepticism and a question. And that is very important in our efforts to analyse the new one. Sometimes, however, there was in this phrase a very great irony and a mocking. I think the first two are about people who were waiting for something from this government, something they expect from the new one, while irony and mocking came mainly from the people who were the political staff of the previous governments. I heard Mr Venizelos a moment ago - I did not intend to place myself on them, but you know our rhetoric changes every time because it is enriched with positions and positions - to talk about the absence of a national plan - so he said - national planning, productive planning, productive reconstruction. Does Mr Venizelos mean that with the banks he left in this place, will we be able to make productive reconstruction? Mr Venizelos wondered a moment ago what would happen with the funds available for the insurance funds. Has Mr Venizelos responded to the questions raised so long by the confessors, for this fight which has been destroyed by individuals fighting business? He wasn't obviously apologized.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u169	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u170	I'll answer that, Mr. Comrade. Mr Hatzidakis was present and I did not hear any talk about the trasts, about cartels, about increasing competition, about reducing corruption in this part. Is that how the national reconstruction takes place? In seven months? I think, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Venizelos was only a joke. I can't see it any different. Of course, I have heard opinions that the New Democracy will be here. I'm absolutely sure. If you remember, they left in September - if I am not mistaken - in 2014, expelled by Mr Siomple, from the Eurogroup, of course, with Parliament's northern wings. I've heard a lot of other things about the issue of productive reconstruction, that it's easy, etc. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Hatzigakis you asked him? Is there his phone somewhere? There are one and a half billion accounts and one billion fines to be charged to the farmers' backs, now loaded on the backs of Tsipras. Can Tsipras answer who? For Mr. Hatzigakis? So let's get him a phone call and answer us. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be dealing with the Left. And I say that, because in this context, and with this very measure, the government will be judged. And we, the MPs, will be judged, I mean, that we are elected to disagree, so that we can move forward with our election plan and programme. If anyone thinks this country needs us to do the usual, he's making a huge mistake. I have heard too many colleagues speak on the issues of assistant teachers. I think it's a very important matter. It's one of the things I'm not talking about. However, if this country does not produce a project in which the educational system is fully linked to its economy in order to be able to develop competitiveness, to develop technology and economy, I think we have lost this issue. I have heard a lot of talk about important reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the agricultural issue is not just about taxation. It is, of course, about that vision of sustainability for farmers of the future. I have heard a lot of things - you know - about the administrations, the boards. But it's not the faces. The point is to soon create an institutional legal framework in which all the procedures for the entry of people to be the main administrative potential of the country will be passed in this country. These are the great challenges of the Left, which is why the world has voted for us. I would like to say that they have loaded on our backs and on the backs of the Greek people very heavy inheritances: inherited debt (private - public), unbelievable inheritances. We have been inherited - you know - and political offices for finding work and not just at a great price, you know, "with the unpaid," they say. So we have to deal with these as a society. I've heard too many things. I would like to overcome this anchoring many times, rigidity of the traditional dimension of the term "left" and given the turn to realism, I would say, in a reality that we cannot avoid and unfortunately, in the face of a grim reality, we must do two things: first, to bring up this society... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, just one minute and I'll be done. ...the winter society, we set it up. Secondly, to reinitiate and redirect this economy and entrepreneurship quickly by putting it into its hearts, by enriching it with health, with equal opportunities, with justice, with merit, fundamental elements which were of course missing from these morbid and multi-annual elements, I would say, and to a satisfactory extent, unfortunately, corrupt governments of the past. I think the bells from here are bored, and I think the northwest is mostly concerned. I would like to say a few words about my prefecture, because I think I also have the pleasure of the Minister for Health, who has to listen to something. So speaking of my county, I want to say I'm not very happy. However, I would say that I am more optimistic when I heard developments in financing, because in my own county there are important infrastructure issues which have been blocked, such as the 'TRAINOSE' issue. I think that this is very good news and I think it will give growth to the Phthytida Prefecture. There is a very important problem. It's about tolls, this very big scourge. Ladies and gentlemen, our own paths, the provincial roads have become carmia, we lament human victims every day. This must be resolved soon. I don't know how, I don't know what to do. This government must deal with it yesterday. I just want to say two words on NSRF matters. I think that this little experience of mine gives me the opportunity to explain rather, because I understand it in this way, that the structures of the ministries must of course be redesigned and enriched with people and executives with know-how, they have a knowledge, they have a will, they have a sense, they have an ambition to get in and produce work. You know, political intentions are not enough, they do not reach the political bodies. Two words and I'll be done. BIP around Lamia, our industrial area, as well as the surrounding area, are full of land rows from closed companies that belong to the banks. I think we need to see this soon with a serious subsidy incentive, not just tax, but above all employment. We are a country without a basic tool, without a development law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u171	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u172	In ten seconds, Madam President, I shall conclude. Without development law, an economy that is introverted does not have know-how, does not put it in, does not absorb technology, does not absorb innovation, does not have high-value products. I think - and with this I have to finish - that I am using the Minister's presence to tell him this. I would ask the Minister to give us a very important solution. We have the Fifth Minister of Thessaly - Central. Sterea has five prefectures, no representation, no Directorate for Health. Minister, I would ask you to do this: we are at one point and please warmly at this time the government must serve, satisfy and protect the needs of society and not our own needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u173	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u174	I mean sub-nationalism, Mr. Comrade. Sub-Government must soon be manned, the Office of the Directorate-General of Lamia, the Office of the Region of Central America. Finally, the effort to rebuild requires a national effort. I only close with two words. It requires a national and consensus effort. In order not to confuse some of the right or the north, national consensus does not mean agreement for everything, but it means, ladies and gentlemen, the benefit of most people, and that is why this government will be judged. Good courage to the Prime Minister, good courage to the members of this government, and good courage to the coup d'état. I think that if we are a little lucky and the international environment is quiet and calm, I want to think that in a few years' time, all that has brought us here will be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u175	I see no one following my invitation to keep time. I'll repeat it, and then I'll take more drastic action. At this point I wanted to present to you the Delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is in our country under a programme of parliamentary scholarships. This programme is in cooperation under the auspices of the German Parliament and in cooperation with the Greek Parliament. May I personally present Mr Alexander Ulrich, who is a Member of the Die Linke Party of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Applause]] The other is Dr. Jan - Hendrick Alberts, who is a professor and President of the University of Hubolt in Berlin. [[Applause]] And Mr. Frank Sobolevski, head of the Parliamentary Service and the rest of the Delegation. [[Applause]] We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause]] Mrs Theanos Fotio, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for eight minutes. I hope that women will conform to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u176	Madam President, welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, eight months ago the Greek Government, the previous left-wing government, spoke of a humanitarian crisis. For five years creditors, PASOK and New Democracy governments have stubbornly refused to accept that they exist. We then said in February that the victims of the humanitarian crisis did not ask for charity and masses, they asked for a job. That's what we're saying now. The aim of our policy is for the victims of the humanitarian crisis to become active in society and at work. But until then, we will not leave the victims of the crisis helplessly to their fate. They are the victims of an undeclared war and require respect and dignity, like all war victims. That's why we brought n. 4320/2015, which we voted unanimously here, but what ironic! The lenders were considered a unilateral energy from both the opposition bait and crumbs. The law was applied in a record time, with unequivocal criteria and unequivocal pan-Hellenic electronic procedures. For its implementation, 200 million has been allocated for nine months. It was a first breath in a hundred forty - five thousand families who took solidarity cards and corresponded to three hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens. They are credited from EUR 70 to EUR 220 per month each month. It was a breath for ninety thousand households, which corresponded to our two hundred 12 thousand fellow citizens, who received 300 KWh free electricity every month or the rental allowance to thirty-five thousand seventy-five five households, that is, eighty-five thousand of our fellow citizens who receive 70 to 220 euros a month, every month. All those who asked for it reconnected the current for free. The law to deal with the humanitarian crisis will continue with it in 2016. We have credited the relevant funds. Our government, from where it finds money, throws it in this field. We are, however, expanding it with a greater number of beneficiaries and a wider range of benefits, with the unemployment card for the whole country and with the health card, which the Minister for Health will also tell you, for the uninsured people in the country. Often, opposition is opposed to the humanitarian crisis programme, the so-called social dividend of the New Democracy - PASOK government. What's the difference? The difference is that the New Democracy - PASOK government made available 500 million horizontally, without targeting and specialising needs, the beneficiaries took 500 euros once and then left to God's mercy. On the other hand, we have created a small, inadequate network of solidarity and protection of nine months' duration, where we have had continuous benefits in kind and at the same time strengthening local markets through the solidarity card and social cohesion, through the way we have given the rental allowance. This is what we regard as a policy of social solidarity with good and efficient management of public resources. The other is the dismantling of public money with instant propaganda. The food problem, ladies and gentlemen, lies at the heart of the humanitarian crisis. Our subsequent moves concern this problem, because of course we cannot reconcile hunger. In our first actions - along with the solidarity card - it was to activate the European Aid Fund to the Most deprived, the EBRD and use immediately 135 million for 2015 and 2016. TEVA offered us an important tool per county, social partnerships. We approved fifty-seven social partnerships involving all, regions, municipalities, churches, NGOs, legal persons with private and public law. They participate - after our encouragement - and the informal structures of social solidarity, to block social partnerships with their experience, momentum, the spirit of participation, control and democracy that have developed over all these years of the crisis voluntarily. The programme includes food benefits, general cleansing and personal hygiene, but also critical services of legal and psychosocial support, as well as social care centres. We have tried two new practices in the TEDA. Firstly, we included food and fresh products which did not exist until then, namely fresh meat, fruit and vegetables. Secondly, the supplies were not made for the 135 million centrally from the Ministry, to come the great supplier, known and unexplained, and to take them all, but we did 30 million first of all from our Ministry in cooperation with the General Secretariat of Trade and the remaining 100 million from them, so that they could be proclaimed and proclaimed on the basis of what we have already done and in order to clearly stimulate local markets. Food is precious to be buried or thrown into our day, but also in general. We have adopted a joint ministerial decision with the Ministry of Rural Development for the indisposed fruit and vegetables, the peaches you know, and 17% of the agricultural production that is buried in the fifty-seven partnerships, to have them collectively, all together, to the victims of the crisis, to foundations and torches. Secondly, we are directly promoting legislation without population restrictions on markets without intermediaries - we will bring cheap Greek products directly into towns - and the disposal of products from large food-trafficking chains to social partnerships again, which can be safely consumed. Thirdly, our central action to tackle child poverty is the introduction of school meals in the country's primary school schools, based on the poverty map. We have the sad privilege of being the government that created the poverty map through two electronic recordings, the TEVA, the pan-Hellenic, imprecise, and the humanitarian crisis. That is why we combine the funds of the EIDA and create a special account at the National Bank for the collection of deposits in Greece and abroad. This organisation starts with a dowry of 12 million from the General Assembly - PPC and the systemic banks. Our guide what the inspiring teachers of Gravas schools started in a simple way, with fantasy and love. They're the ones we're gonna imitate. The school meal, for us, is not just for today's period. When he generalizes, he will be an element of the new school. It is an institution that introduces new morals, a new culture of coexistence. Ladies and gentlemen, social protection in Greece, as you know, concerns children - abandoned, orphaned, malicious or incurable illnesses - the disabled, the elderly, the homeless, drug addicts and alcohol addicts, Roma and, of course, the poor, who have multiplyed at a vicious rate over the past five years. In Greece, social protection has been structured exclusively with institutional policy and income policy. This has also raised customer relations and great impurities. As a result, we have institutions without a single legislative framework, without public control, without coordination, without synergy. We announced from February the National Social Solidarity System, the ESKA. A NSA was saying folk, so everyone could understand it, in the field of social protection. A system of anthropocentric, no distortions of the past, with autonomy and public control. That's what we're doing. This will be institutionalised by framework law. We'll bring it in in 2016. The law will establish common rules for certification, authorisation, operation and ongoing control of all and assessments and define the responsibilities of the municipalities, regions and government. The ESRB will be structured in three operational steps: primary, including all existing social protection structures, secondary, in which the institutions are integrated, and higher, in which the dehydration structures will be integrated. These three steps will work together at local level on themes. We draw up three electronic registers that will be a tool for planning and supervising all the structures for the ESKA: Register of Beneficiaries, Register of Institutions, Property Register. Social solidarity income, as we will call the minimum guaranteed income, will be an essential element of the ESRB. He will take into account the assessment of the pilot thirteen municipalities. It will take into account our objections to the institutions so that it does not become a trap of poverty in a country of enormous unemployment and with huge black work and our objections that it does not become a means of squeeze the wages of those in work because it has worked in many countries. It will be designed by simplification of procedures and will be aimed at linking the benefits to the labour market. In April 2016, it will begin its extended application throughout Greece, not only in thirteen municipalities, but throughout Greece and 2017 its final application. I shall conclude, Madam President. Our programme for the National Social Solidarity System is ambitious. It will be the solid basis for social protection and solidarity in the coming decades for the first time in Greece. We want to move forward with the greatest possible political and social consensus. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u177	Mr Kasapidis from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Good luck with your new duties, too. But the previous Minister did not tell us what is going on with the minimum guaranteed income. Madam Secretary, why don't you go ahead with the implementation of this plan you found?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u179	You've confused it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u180	You didn't tell us. You have a chance to talk to us about this. They're here to explain them better to you. I would also like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Health, Mr Xanthus. I would ask you, Mr. Xanthi, from this Step and once again to see to it that there is a shortage of staff, nursing and medical care for the Kozani Hospitals. Clinical, pathological, obstetric, pediatric - you know it very well - until hereditary doctors who are regional counsellors or municipal advisors are forced to do on-calls in hospitals. I would also like to explain my question to the Minister for the Environment, Mr Tsironi, who spoke very much about the design of his ministry about the deterrence and change of energy fuel in the lignite country. He did not, however, tell us what the alternative to the energy mix in the country, which will take the place of lignite to ensure in our economy that we so much need it, especially now in this critical period. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to most of the ministers of the coup d'état, I find it difficult to understand their optimism about the course of things that concern our country. My concern is growing as far as I can see that, in addition to the Memorandum of Opposition Headquarters' obligations as disastrous and disastrous for the Greek economy and society, they have nothing else to propose and present. After the shading of the memorandum and the abolition of the HPAI and all the Memorandum laws by means of an act which has never been done, so far has proved to be the notorious plan of productive reconstruction, which, for the last two years, has been an election and post-election, as a government, proclaim and announce, gentlemen of the Government, to the Greek people. It is now clear that you do not have a productive reconstruction plan for the country. Your few ministers, for the sake of their own ambition, have tried to highlight and present problems, solutions and priorities, but they are not harmonised in an integrated alternative plan, which you have said you will have along with the memorandum that you have brought and implemented. More sincerely, of course, the Minister, Mr Chakalotos, who also has the responsibility of the economy, closed his speech yesterday with the words 'Or we will all succeed together or we will all fail together'. However, failure at the moment for the country after so many deprivations, injustices and sacrifices will be disastrous, especially for the economically weaker and poor people. The lack of a productive reconstruction plan in the real economy of the country, which, as necessary as it ever is today, can lead, in accordance with the fears of the Ministry of Finance, to the country leaving the euro and the naughty return to our national currency. What we all have to do to prevent this happening is understandable, if we accept - and the saying that in a time of peace, in order to ensure peace, we must prepare for war - that, to remain in the euro, we must be ready for the drachma, that is, we must start producing as a country. But - and this is urgently needed - a national production plan to strengthen our national economy and strengthen the country. So prepare, gentlemen of the government, the Greek people for the hardest and hardest effort that all of us united together must do to achieve with endogenous forces more and more degrees of freedom for our country until the full recovery of our national sovereignty by our infertile lenders. Tell the Greeks we need to get into production dynamically. Prepare a plan for national production - set an example! - a project with central planning for each sector of the economy and for each region of the country, describing in a fair and clear way the distribution of production and labour and wealth produced, focusing on the regions of our country with the strongest social, demographic and economic problems, but also on regions with unique comparative advantages which favour production. Production is the word magic, which gives content to the concept of growth and does not exist in monumental control and restrictions. So speak of them and of them in the country and plan wisely to conquer it, self-sufficiency in food, food, first-needed species and many other goods, which are easy to do in Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Would you give me one more minute, Madam President, why was I scheduled to speak for six minutes? As long as there is political will and determination to break with the great importers and other interests of other countries, who have colonized our country's economy for twenty-five years, not only in the technological species, but also in food. So let us start by changing everything from our diet: the rotten cooperative movement, the poor administrative organisation, producers' outgoing mentality, our bad eating habits, the xenophania and the entrepreneurship, investing in scientific knowledge, that enlightens and correctly guides every honest producer and isolates every evil and practicing thinking. The only fact that we have been importing 70% of the food necessary for our food is that for at least twenty years at least food dependence and bankruptcy of our country and signals the necessity of the profound changes that need to be made. You have an obligation, gentlemen of the government, to start the productive reconstruction of the country from the real economy. You will find us sick, with constructive suggestions and practical assistance. Do not, however, burden small and medium-sized farmers any more, unless you want to turn them into land workers in their own fields, belonging to large-scale or multinationals. Their over-taxation, the increase in the tax advance and the tripling of insurance contributions will lead to the average Greek agricultural family with mathematical accuracy in bankruptcy, i.e. further increase in unemployment, depopulation and the ageing of the countryside, the deficit in our commercial balance, the decline in domestic production and further increase in imports. If you wish exactly the opposite, then put forward a productive reconstruction plan aimed at maximising self-sufficiency. We are telling you that with real data the country, gaining 80% of its self-sufficiency, can achieve an increase in GDP by EUR 5 billion a year at most in five to six years. At the same time, four hundred thousand permanent jobs can be created in the Greek region, refreshing it with new blood of young people who want to move from urban centres and unemployment to rural areas and production. Allow me, Madam President - and I close with this - to make three practical proposals with a direct and substantial impact on the direction I propose, which are, firstly, to prevent further taxation for small and medium-sized producers and production, secondly, to restore the life expectancy of fresh pasteurised milk over five days and, thirdly, to change the previous government's decision to transfer the name of feta to Canada. The benefits will be, firstly, to prevent the deterioration of the economics of agricultural production and the average Greek agricultural family, which will make it unsustainable, secondly, to ensure tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs around the country's four thousand cow-food farms, which offer the strategic importance for society a valuable asset, and thirdly to ensure Greek rights and the huge outlook on the world market for feta, which is the global airline in the cheese market. I would like to say, Madam President, that an expert I myself carried out four years ago on this prospect of feta on the world market. [[At this point Mr Georgios Kasapidis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore only from the doubling of the production of feta for partial coverage in the 2/5 of world demand, which amounts to five hundred thousand tonnes a year, in two years' time, that 100 000 new permanent jobs can be created in the Greek countryside and an additional EUR 1 billion per year of GDP growth. As long as you move on...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u181	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u182	I'm done with this. As long as you are going to draw up a draft national strategy for herd farming and feta, as part of a comprehensive plan, which, as I said before, unfortunately has not been seen until now. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u183	I call secondly for you to limit your speaking time, for you to organise them, because you have been surprised by the change in time, so that they can be five minutes. After this appeal, I will be interrupted in five and a half minutes. I tell you because it will not even be possible to place one third of the speakers who are registered. Mr Megalomus Anastasios has the floor from the Centro Association for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u184	I would like to thank the President of the Association of Central Vasilis Leventis, who gave me the opportunity to fight for my entry into this House, to be here now and to address all those who have so far judged the present and future of our country, and besides being part of this group, and to be able to decide, produce and influence developments. Listening on Monday to Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, all I found is that he talked with generalities. I hope this will remain in my own mind and not be the reality. It is important for this new government to take advantage of the opportunity given to it once again by the people and not to disappoint him as before. So I wish them good power in their work. From now on, the Central Association, with its entry into the Parliament, will bring about a revival of reforms that will change the political scene and lift any suspensive and substantiative factor that has so far functioned as a brake on the relaunching of the economy, the suppression of unemployment, the attraction of new investments and the reconstruction of the country's productive fabric. The Centro Association and the President of Vassilis Leventis, years now, when others questioned him and denounced him, he had warned the citizens about all the calamity that was coming. At that time the state's aspiring saviors were either raised in political molds or supported a policy without a vision that led to the economic collapse and ultimately the poverty of the country and the people. The Centro Association is the only responsible political force, which has been supporting a strand of reforms that have been consistently and irresistiblely supported for years. As a new Member of the Central Association of Serres, I would like to commit myself, of course, having experienced the work experience in the many private sectors, to helping to regain the confidence of the citizens in a country with economic, political and social stability. This will all happen by emphasizing and implementing the reforms introduced by the Party of the Union of Centres. With little employment, as far as my age allows, with the private sector, I have very quickly found that injustices in the private sector are disproportionately greater than in the public sector. The private sector is constantly burdened with unfavourable taxation, there are no incentives for it, red tape is also an obstacle, as well as an increase in insurance contributions and changes in tax legislation. My personal bet is that the nine positions of the Central Association should be adopted and that three main measures should be implemented: Firstly, legislative measures should be taken so that all this money that came out from 2009 and then abroad return to Greece on favourable terms, such as investment in our country within a reasonable period of 50% of this money. We also need to reach agreement with lenders so that the bonds and liabilities of the country are suspended for a five-year period without interest rate so that this money can regenerate our economy. Very importantly, young professionals and young farmers should be encouraged, as we believe that they should be exempted in the first five years from the tax, since their turnover does not exceed EUR 20,000. The same must be done with their insurance contributions. It is necessary to convince Greece that it is a stable political and fiscal environment, that we respect the rules, that we respect businesses, and that we respect investment. But we also need public investment in public works and infrastructure. This will create new jobs. At the same time, we must make full use of the financial instruments and all European programmes. In Greece in recent years too many budgetary changes have been made, but they are not enough. A new production model is needed, which is based on processing and production of exported products. This will happen with the development of the agricultural sector, self-sufficiency in food production, as well as increased production of exported standardised products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The growth in Greece needs exports and, above all, industrial exports. Greece has less industrial production, nearly 9% of GDP, compared with 15.5% in the European Union. In addition, we need to support the strengthening of new businesses, as they are going to bring the new wealth to Greece, otherwise we will continue to be the greatest power to extract myals. Twenty thousand young people have already left Greece in the last five years. Finally, I would like to stress that in this project of the Centro Association for Economic Relaunching and Development, as well as a reduction in public pathogens, Vassilis Leventis, our President sent us the nine-point programme to Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, but he has not given an answer yet. That is why we cannot give a vote of confidence, but we will be there, in order to support the right and to oppose unfairness, by voting for development reforms and by voting against measures that sink the country even more into the current decline. We're here to join forces for the common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. Mrs. Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today after a difficult but successful, electoral battle that led to our second election victory, a win of wisdom in the world - which our opponents call misled - a victory more conscious, more reflective and more reflectionful. In recent elections, the people have trusted us for the second time in the government of the country, despite our difficulties and weaknesses, even as a lesser evil than the proving for decades of evil of others. But people's support this time will be particularly critical, with no tolerance or complacentness. Every mistake costs and needs to be carried out by everyone in the common struggle to avoid dull and recurring as far as possible and to allow a different sample of writing from the first half of the year after the economic war is halved. There is no class truce and the opponents assemble by preparing the counterattack, as they have shown historical examples, both Greek and international. We express - and they know - the emergence of a different socio-political bloc capable of partial change, for example, in a European context, we, the heirs and the contradictory, according to our political opponents. We must breathe in a very difficult environment, dominated by a hard neoliberal policy in favour of economic and political elites, calling for policies to redistribute incomes and defend the rights of the people's classes, through a development agenda, but by a social document. Our country is at a critical crossroads and there is a need for stable and progressive governance, which must and can lead to growth in 2016, which will allow - and this is what we mean - substantial support for the weak, but also the fight against unemployment, especially young people, who are leaving the country massly. This process, however, goes through the implementation of a difficult agreement of measures, with a lot of which we disagree, but necessary to move forward to the next stage, and that is the paradox of recent months. Some of these measures are the price of defeat, but with the resistance of our Government in the consciousness of the Greek people. It is therefore necessary to vote immediately to get us to a positive assessment, with the necessary equivalents for the most painful of them. The successful closure of the rating will allow the banks to recapitalise in 2015 and ensure the deposits and stabilisation of the banking system. The forward reforms and the positive evaluation will then unlock the debate on the essential and not the parametric write-down of the Greek debt so that our country can breathe and escape the harsh measures and austerity over time. But what are the necessary reforms? It is absolutely necessary to combat inter- and corruption, to have a direct economic impact; modern and progressive administration, state changes to make it friendly and flexible to the citizen; to dismantle the networks that privatise the public wealth and privatise the state and the public interest; and, even more so, to accelerate the administration of justice, to break the cartels, and, of course, to strengthen the social state, the indelible mark of a left radical policy, with clear differentiation from others' policies. In the past six months, we have given examples of writing in this direction, both in the humanitarian crisis bill, which they considered to be a one-sided energy that would lead to Grexit, and even in the case of fire-fighting and healing measures taken on the urgent problems in public education and health. What visionary, though, are we suggesting from now on? To implement a National Social Solidarity System, focusing on minors and the third age. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Wait a minute, please. To implement a public primary health care network, which so much needs the place; to implement a modern, targeted and personalised education for children, with all types of educational difficulties or disabilities; to reform the orientation of the educational framework of both levels of education, but also to vote for a new map of higher education, with the active discussion of the existing legislation to begin the immediate start of programmes and policies for the social economy, the collaborative productive ventures, by mobilising a productive high-training potential that is now leaving the country; to fight for the reform of labour relations, with special care for young workers for equal pay and insurance rights. There is a need for courage, determination and availability, which can be the most effective counterweights and equivalent to measures in the Memorandum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. So we need a direct programme of interventions in the economy, society and the state. But implementation requires and can only be done with the active involvement of society, which has placed its hope on us. Colleagues and comrades, the Radical Left, our Left, is for the toughest. And left policy is called upon to apply to the most difficult conditions, to the most unfavourable correlation. The search for this utopia is likely to force us to achieve the impossible, that is to say, open roads and where there are no roads, but with our feet grounded on the earth, so that Mrs Pappigga's wish to fail is confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Konsolas Emmanuel from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. After the storms of immigration, Madam President, I wish you were calm and sober in this Chamber. Congratulations on the choice and good power to have, like all of us here. We have seen excellent young colleagues from the Step of the House on reflection, ideas and proposals for parliamentary and democracy. However, we saw Mr Tsipras the day before yesterday in the Programmatic Declarations and many of the governors, ministers and MPs, presenting the picture beautifully, not all of whom have been arrested. It is a picture, however, which should be said to be at the expense of the truth. And the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is reflected in the draft budget submitted to the National Representation, since the indicators are indisputable witnesses. The unemployment rates for 2015 are 25.8%, compared with 2014, which was 24.6%. The increase in taxation - Mr Vésiropoulos will have the opportunity to develop it - includes new measures of over EUR 6.4 billion, of which about 40% is a cut in wages and pensions. We also have to say that we will unfortunately have to follow other measures. It is a given, ladies and gentlemen, that the next few months are very critical for the Greek state, because at a very important time the economy is going down again in recession. It is the government's choice to increase taxes on natural persons and businesses. It is clear and has been captured in the speech of the Prime Minister that there is no clear strategic plan. The Prime Minister spoke of debt restructuring. We will agree and assure you that the New Democracy will support this effort. But is this debt restructuring enough to get out on the markets and to bring growth? None of us agree that the answer is positive. Nor is it enough to recapitalise the banks, which had been framed by the opposition government, because the damage, ladies and gentlemen, has been caused and is very great. At this point we must say that the government of January - August now needs to give its place to a national reform plan. It is clear that you do not have it. There is no clear government plan on the part of the government. You spoke about attracting investment, and you will allow me to remind this Chamber of what had happened to the previous government of the Samara - Venizelos period, when Mr Tsipras called on investors not to invest their money, because by one provision they will lose their money, since he had assured the cancellation of the investment in question. Was that a responsible attitude? Was it a attitude expressed by a country seeking investment from abroad, to return to growth, to create jobs, to produce wealth and to increase public revenue? Ladies and gentlemen, that was not a stand. We will not repeat it again. We will support the efforts that are being made in this direction of development. Ladies and gentlemen, let me turn to an area that has been held up in this crisis. That's the tourism. It is convenient for some of you to argue and say that an additional tax has been imposed on the tourist product, but to say from this Step that the cause of this taxation is the ideology of the Left. It surprises us that ANELs are also supporters in this effort, because, you know, from the very first moment, tourism was targeted, especially in the Aegean islands. I would remind you that Mr Tsipras and many government officials at the time had talked about tax evasion on the islands and entrepreneurship was incriminating on the islands. It was therefore led to the tourist product being expensive on our islands. We have the neighboring country that has imposed a tax free with a zero rate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We also had the government to impose the abolition of reduced rates of VAT on the islands on 1 October in Rhodes. Basically, it abolished the reduced rates in the Dodecanese as a whole, considering that Rhodes is a feeder and transporter of products, goods and services in the other islands of the Dodecanese. On the occasion of the reference to tourism, therefore, I would like to respond to two points concerning governmental challenges that tourism has gone well and that the figures have increased. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that tourism has a given speed. It is the rules of the market and the free economy. On what we had founded three years ago, the numbers increased and we had more visitors. I would remind you, indeed, that if we did not have the capital controls, we would have even more of a tourist current. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Madam President. Let me just remind you that in August we had a hundred and sixty thousand cancellations for nights in Kos. You understand what would happen if there was no such destabilization. I must also remind you of the additional burden created by 30%, because according to the study by the Institute for Taxation and Economic Studies it is a huge burden. The rates that have been abolished have been taken care of by the previous government, despite the challenges. In closing, since you are talking about compensation for residents, we would like to remind ourselves that 30% was not a privilege, but it was a condition for survival, ladies and gentlemen, and it was a development measure. It means that the abolition of a development measure only in development measures could give the spit and the economy could continue on the islands. Unfortunately, here we have a problem with entrepreneurship in the Aegean. Let me close by saying that we have heard many interesting things. Let's get out of tourism. I have heard and sincerely welcomed that there is a dialogue on education from pre-school education. It's a request from all of Parliament's wings. I have heard that we will proceed to a constitutional review. Does anyone assure us that you will dare, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with Article 16 of the education so that we can follow market rules, modern academic action, as you speak and fight for the academic activity of the institutions? We're waiting for it. I would also like to see that this will continue with the compensation for private education, since the word 'proved' - in introductory form - is not our class difference, but that you will find compensatory amounts which seem to have been coming to light since July when you are studying, you have not tabled a credible proposal on compensatory payments. After that, I would like to say that we will not continue a sterile opposition, as you have done two and a half years, but we will support the positive efforts. However, we cannot give this phase of confidence to the government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u189	The reason for this is the State Secretary for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Kollia. I'll give you five minutes, Mrs. Collia, because you're also a dissident.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Madam President, for 'by way of derogation'. But I represent all Macedonia and Thrace, so I think I should have a say in Parliament. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as we have arrived, we have only one option, we have to stand up to the circumstances and we must all contribute our fullest to the rescue of our country's homeland. The days following won't be pomegranate. The deadlines for the completion of the obligations arising from the recent agreement shall be set. Our country has been accepted an extreme blackmail. It was against a coup that provided for the total destruction of the country, but which also requires conflicting political responses to address the generic causes that caused it all. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In the name of the majority of our fellow citizens, who have not lost their faith, their dignity, and their will to fight for the survival and prospect of our country, its defiance from the old and the rotten, serious political decisions must be made, rifted at the level of interoperable, tax evasion, and also at the level of reducing the extreme impact of hard measures. At this time, the Greeks are called upon to be involved in the difficult circumstances and to make decisions that require excellent attention and to hide their particularity and importance. Greece's law is our power. It will still be a difficult fight with the irrational, as we have been imposed on us. As Undersecretary of State for Macedonia and Thrace, I would like to invite you to walk to Macedonia and Thrace, but outside its beautiful tourist regions. You will meet the gracious future awaiting us, desertification everywhere, schools are shutting down or down, uncultivated fields, shops closed, young people are also resurrected with anger and indignation. They ask for answers from our lenders and our partners. Hope and curse give us the protection of the countryside, to act effectively with the recovery policies of the Greek agricultural sector, free from chronic incest, so that the burden of impact can be compensated in time. Let us not forget that we do not have time for delays, especially now that compulsory measures are unfolded on the basis of a timetable. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Northern Greece have a real argument for everyone. Why was the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace founded, abolished, degraded and re-established along the way of time? Was his purpose purely symbolic? Is this all about his historical dimension? His responsibilities, and how does he ultimately serve the citizen? From the small experience so far, let me tell you that it is imperative to reorganise its role and tasks. It is necessary for his institutional armour to play his role successfully, to produce results for the citizens. We claim it and we fight for it. Our concern is not only to coordinate government work as far as possible in the area of responsibility, but also to act effectively in the field of Macedonia and Thrace, the Balkans and the Black Sea and to become an important channel of administrative communication. We insist that northern Greece is able to become a model of regional development. We are fighting to ensure that the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace operate as an effective body for the exercise, activation and harmonisation of government policy, as a model ministry for regional development which will effectively demonstrate government decentralisation, which remains the great concern of our country's past. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] The Independent Greeks want the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace to be an essential tool for the development of Macedonia and Thrace, but only with an upgraded role and enhanced responsibilities that embraces all three regions will fight for the 16 counties of the region, from Florina to Evros and Samothraki. I have tabled a recent framework of claims. If they are satisfied, within the context of the general policy of course, they will eventually enable them to function as a political and economic headquarters with the objective and purpose of economic and social prosperity of northern Greece. Finally, the importance of the project, such as the cooperation of a centre-right party and a left-wing party, will be assessed along the path of time, which sets the basis for the success of a great national understanding. We dared and I'm proud of it. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I'm done. This government must respect those who supported it. They put their hopes to it even citizens who did not vote for it. With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, in the difficult battles we will be called upon to protect the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Collia, and respect for time. Now Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulos has the floor from Golden Dawn for five minutes. Mr. Eliopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we are convinced that you have come to power with one single reason, to continue the disastrous work of the previous governments. You are a follower of the policies of Samaras, Papandreou and all the other hollows that have really destroyed our country, which have dissolved the social fabric of the country. In order to be more specific, you voted in the summer and you have committed yourself to some measures for farmers, namely, for the backbone of the productive sector in the country, a sector that produces wealth, which guarantees us self-sufficiency in the goods we consume on a daily basis. You have voted and you will apply the increase in the tax rate to 26%, the increase in VAT on agricultural supplies to 23%, tripling - perhaps more - of insurance contributions to the OGA. The increase in the advance payment of the income tax will reach up to 100%. This is a completely absurd measure. Increase the days when a milk is considered fresh with a unique gain on foreign milk producers. This has been implemented for a few months and the only result it has achieved is greater milk imports. No one has won, nor the producers, let alone the consumers who are so much cut. You have voted to abolish the subsidy and compensation tax exemption for up to EUR 12 000, to abolish the refund on oil for farmers, to increase the price of agricultural electricity and much more. Of course, Tsipras and your Minister only had to say about book keeping and some "we'll see", "we'll make national strategic plans" and so forth, nice to say, but not in practice. We have discussed with farmers. You get bills, just as your predecessors, from Brussels, from Brussels, from paperworms in Brussels that have never stepped on a field that has never seen what a producer means in practice. You take them and apply them to our poor homeland. We therefore tell you that these measures that you have brought, apart from catastrophic, are not applicable. Simple as that! You're taxing the cigarette. That's new now and he played the past few days. This is a completely absurd tax for a drink that does not belong to the noble drinks you usually drink and is in all the Greeks' homes. And you're taxing it! The only result from this tax is to turn the Greeks into the consumption of illegal, fraudulent and dangerous ticket health from Albania and Skopje. Also, remove the reduced VAT on the islands. You also want to dismantle islands, but you want to dismantle another area that produces wealth, tourism, for which you are so severely cut and grows that it is an area that still delivers. So he's the one you want to tear him apart. While in an international environment such as Turkey, we are down to zero taxation in the tourist regions - Turkey announced this week and it creates such zones - we are increasing taxes to drive tourists out. It's just mathematics: When you increase taxes, you reduce revenue in the medium to long term. It's that simple. Of course, you can't understand, because you're taking orders from outside. We've been through this before, and we don't have to talk to you. You know it, too, that you've been playing it antimony all these years. As far as industry is concerned, we are not discussing what has suffered these five years. I will only tell you that in the industrial area - because I know that - of Volos, for example, from five thousand workers who were employed, no longer employs eight hundred. It's a desert town. I will, however, close with one of your most enthusiastic former Ministers, New Democracy, who today had the nerve to move the finger to the SYRIZA ministers, telling them not to interfere in the self-interestedness of justice and other such beautiful turbulence. And I use this phrase for a haunted Minister who gave orders, called and intervened to the chief of the interrogators Jani, when the Chief of Golden Dawn was resurrected, the one in the Committee on Institutions asked "who is the other?". There was a audio document to which Samaras' voice is clearly heard, something that has not been disproved by anyone - from whom to disprove after all? - giving orders to the offender, Doyako - whom you have also made head of the Athenians - to imprison me and two more of my rivals. So when in the interrogation this wrongdoer, Doyakos, was asked by me "What information does he have in the litigation regarding me?" he said "can't be, somewhere there will be". All of this has started to be investigated by justice. Slowly Mr Athanasios and the rest of the outlawing circuit will be accountable to justice, as will Doyakos and the others. So that is why the enthusiast - who is missing - was present in all the speeches here - Babis Athanasios with his clique, Samaras - yes, your leader! - and the others will have to account for the Baltaku video and the confession - which we have all heard - of Samaras, who is asking for our guardianship with vile expressions. The Golden Dawn has deeply rooted in the souls of the Greeks. Take the hampari: no matter how many persecutions, no matter how many imprisonments and any blockades we accept, we are the popular movement that will prevail and rule our country in the near future, and save it from the disaster in which you lead it with mathematical accuracy. We are here and as long as there is a golden man, he will fight for the freedom of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Heliopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students from the Faroe Islands. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor is now for five minutes, SYRIZA MP Mr Mustafa Mustafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the new colleagues and I wish you all a good term of office, courage and production. For the Programming Declarations, I would like to say that both as content and as a way of speaking respond to today's reality. It is a difficult time, at which we have been driven, of a forty-year-old unfortunate course from which we must try to escape with wisdom, soundness, a programme and a social sign. Listening to the criticisms of the government's Programmatic Declarations, in particular the criticisms made by colleagues in the parties who have been ruling over the last forty years, a saying of my country comes and turns into my mind, which says "on the other side the pin, to ourselves the liquor". It is wise to guide the issue of criticism - self-criticism. When we talk, we choose and criticize to be more firm with ourselves and more pitiful, more prudent, more careful with our interlocutors. The maliciousness of our country did not begin on the 25th of January 2015 nor in 2009 with the imposition of the memorials. Take a look at all these years since post-Culture and on the other hand it was evident that we were moving a step forward towards this situation. We saw opportunities, opportunities not to be exploited, to be lost from our hands. We saw the geometric growth of debt from year to year, from government to government, and nothing happens. He didn't need much brain, much knowledge of economy. It was enough for the people's wisdom to "your foot to the point where your quilts" or "here's no loan money". Unfortunately, that's what happened. Now, you are trying to justify the rise of SYRIZA entirely subjectively:'responsible populism', 'false','sexualism','sexualism', 'experiences', 'anti-Sovieties', 'lenistic tactics', etc. And whatever else one might imagine. And Tsipas had heard a lot from "choglanism", "false", to "fascist" and much more similar. While it was clear that this situation was no longer going, that society wanted a change of clothes and staff in the country's governance, it is now up to us to be able to meet these expectations. This is a difficult task, but we will fight with all our powers. In addressing the Government and Ministers, I take into account the Programmatic Declarations on the Rhodope Prefecture, which were dictated by them, by the people of the region, both in the seven months of our government and in the pre-election period. I will not go into the various institutional burdens around minorities, which others have essential but have symbolic content, which will be resolved in due course by dialogue and sobering, with wisdom and soundness. We have had basic problems with ELGA compensation from 2013-2014, so that farmers can survive. We have worked on this for two factories in our region with prospects and sustainability and we need the help of the state, the ministries, so that their chimneys can smoke again. Seven thousand tobacco growers expect a ray of hope so that they can continue this painful crop, which is a tradition for our region and is a national export product. Exploiting the enormous potential of our area for tourist development with millions of neighbors, who are potentially our visitors. The Komotini hospital is in a dramatic state, like all hospitals in our country. The Democritus University of Thrace needs immediate support to continue its scientific work and to blood our region. There's a neighborhood in Komotini that has been transferred there since 1950. They still don't have ownership titles. They're paying S.H.I.E.L.D., but they haven't got any titles yet. And without infrastructure for the first rains, it becomes a lake. In mountainous areas they still have no titles of property. They pay ENVIA, but they can't get their subsidies. I would like to make a point about the results of the last elections. The results of the elections of 20 September were discussed in the pan-Hellenic press, media and the Internet. Serious - within introductory and non-important - journalists, big names, newspapers, radios, reported on the Turkishisation of Thrace, about three Muslim MPs, about non-balanced and unbalanced representation of the relevant elements of Rhodope. Very shallow, common, interpretation, to which they refer, others by ignorance and others consciously, not to make self-criticism, to invest in firstborn instincts and to cover their mistakes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. For me the last elections, especially from 2012 onwards, are the vindication of a forty-yearly difficult and painful course, which we are doing in the framework of the Left People from all the components of our society, speaking of the same things in different languages. I am pleased that people from all sides of the local society, overcrowding cassanders, divisions, differences in religion, origin, language and culture are assembling around SYRIZA to keep alive to keep hope and perspective in our country alive. We'll do whatever goes through our hand so we don't let them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Mustafa Mustafa. SYRIZA MP Kara Yusuf Aihan has the floor for five minutes. And to prepare Mr Kavadas Athanasios from New Democracy to win a few minutes for more speakers. Mr. Kara Yusuf, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a success and, in particular, the Bureau for its difficult work. My other fellow Member and companion, Mr Mustafa Mustafa, preceded me. I won't bother you too much. To begin with, I remembered something, in 2014 that we were a Civic Opposition and in a speech from this Step by the President of the SYRIZA Officerate, Alexis Tsipras, said that once the people would take power in their hands and I remember that it was heard from the headquarters of the Coupling, without any distinction: 'ha, what people?' Fellow colleagues, this people within a year have shown their confidence in SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras. As SYRIZA, we are therefore seeking to establish a new production model based on long-term sustainable agriculture and livestock farming that meets the basic nutritional domestic needs and at the same time redefining the share of Greek products in the European and international divisions. As a government, SYRIZA has already worked out and legislated measures limiting the tax burden on agricultural income and were included in the Samara Government's tax law. More specifically, compensation for natural disasters in the rural economy has remained tax-free. It was anticipated by the previous taxes from the first euro at a rate of 13%. Farm subsidies have remained tax-free up to 12,000 euros. This regulation covered over 90% of farmers, mainly small and medium-sized farmers. There was an advance in the first euro at a rate of 13%. After eighteen months in the absence of a development law from the country, the government is moving on to the creation of a new framework of incentives for private investment. This new development framework, promoted by our Government, will be a tool for the transformation of the Greek economy, with a view to the productive reconstruction of the country, focusing on regional targeting in order to produce internationally marketable products. This can be achieved through the geographical distribution of funds and modulation of incentives in areas that have so far not been part of the priority areas. In particular, my region, the outermost region of Thrace, should and will enjoy a high rate of aid with clear differentiation from the other regions. Greece through the extreme Thrace, using its traditional relations with Bulgaria and Turkey, as well as the neighbouring countries of the Black Sea and Russia, must be active in cooperation with European partners to strengthen its role as Greece - a bridge country in a new security, peace, stability and development architecture. At the present economic juncture, the use of closed industrial plants is essential. Today there is a large building stock and in BIP Komotini - one of the largest in the country - the image of which unfortunately remains frustrating with few units to work and heroic local industries to fight against foreign funds. At the last part of my position, I would like to make a reference to a number of issues which concern and concern the minority, as my fellow Member has said, and which, of course, require a immediate and definitive solution. The government's priority will be to solve the chronic problems of the mountain tumor, as the previous speaker said, and it is still afflicting the world of the mountain tumor by the lack of elementary everyday goods, such as direct access to health care, with the Komotini Hospital going down and the bad road network never being restored. In the field of education some positive steps were taken towards the normalization of minority education. However, it is imperative to remodel and update curricula in both primary and secondary education and to upgrade and modernise minority education from kindergartens to university institutions, always in line with modern educational perceptions and international educational standards. Direct and self-evident re-evaluation of Greek citizenship, i.e. out of processes of naturalisation to those who had deprived citizenship before the entry into force of the law that abolished the famous article 19 of the Code of Nationality, regardless of whether or not they reside in Greece. Solve the property status of the Rhodope Mountains, because the residents who lived in these areas were defined by racist bars and have absolutely no title for property, neither for houses nor for fields, which leads to a series of adverse effects on them. Farmers because of a lack of ownership rights are sitting at the address of the defendant on the grounds that they are seizing public land or forests. They cannot be integrated into development programmes. In conclusion, I should like to express my full confidence in the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government, of course, in the hope that its programme will be implemented in four years' time, focusing only on the citizen and man and not on foreign and domestic major economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Kara Yusuf Aihan. Mr Kavadas Athanasios from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes, and then the Deputy Minister of Interior will speak. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me - for this is the first time that I am in the Step of this House - to thank the citizens of Lefkada who have honoured me with their vote and trusted me in this House. I want from this Step to tell them that I will do everything possible for the good of our country and our country. I would also like to wish all my fellow Members a good mandate and to ask that all of us do our utmost to have a productive and constructive parliamentary action for the good of all Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a critical turning point in the history of the country and its citizens as well. What we must all set out is that the country should move safely in the future. We must pave the way for a definitive and secure exit from the crisis. The country has no luxury in drawbacks, nor should we return to pathogens. The New Democracy has made it possible for the country to remain in Europe's narrow core. This also enables the current government to represent the country by speaking equally with its partners and its interlocutors and, at the same time, to move towards policies that will enable citizens to cope with the demands of the times. In addition to the memorandum, however, there are policies which must, in any case, be implemented and implemented in order to permanently change what prevents the development, improvement of the daily life of the citizen, guaranteeing basic goods in the fields of education, health, safety, work, sport and culture. Because for all of this, we will not give any white cheques and will not allow any attitudes to be imposed that will serve the obsessions and ideas with which history has ended with them. Beyond all this, there is the practical side of life with the problems of everyday life, and we are all here as representatives of the citizens, to solve them. Ladies and gentlemen, for one and a half hours I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister's schedule statements. I have heard nothing specific about solving the real and everyday problems. Only vultures and vague promises, no timetables and no commitments. All we have to expect is taxes, measures to burden employees and pensioners and unemployment for our young people. I expected to hear the full timetable for the completion of the major public road projects. Years now Lefkada is an island isolated. Travel to and from the capital is an adventure. I was expecting you, gentlemen of the government, to be ready for the start of the new ESDP. After eight months of governance and development law you have not brought to the vote by the House. Thousands of fellow citizens expect us to invest and join the new programmes that will boost tourism, new technologies, entrepreneurship, as many as thousands of others expect to be paid out from old programmes, but you have preferred not only to commit state resources but also to lead us to capital controls. I expected to hear a plan for rural entrepreneurship and how the Greek farmer will develop his production with new incomes and competitive crops. Instead, it is called upon to pay the cracks of unsuccessful negotiation in order to satisfy the prerequisites. One month after the start of schools I expected to hear that all needs have been met at all levels of education and not that their teachers are still waiting. But I heard yesterday from the Deputy Minister of Health that there will be immediate cover for the appalling shortages in medical staff in the country's hospitals. I hope and hope it will be done quickly, because the Hospital of Lefkada, from April to June, remained without a medical hospital, and even in a period of tourist peak. In fact, there was no hospital, and at the moment, you all understand what this means primarily to the public health of the Lefkadians, but also to the thousands of visitors of the island, and I am pleased that at the moment the Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, is in the Chamber, which I will ask you to see positively, because not only is the pathological clinic in operation, but the cardiological clinic has been closed and I was informed two days ago that there is no cardiological clinic in Prevezis. This is very important, and please, Minister, take a positive look at it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government's Programmatic Declarations only afflict and affliction. Mr. Tsipras said yesterday about another development. For all of us development is the thing. However, a serious development government plan has not been heard. What does the Prime Minister mean when he says another development? If the other development and the new one that SYRIZA brings is the pre-storm and bleeding of the remaining income, if the new means the application of a greedy memorial to which you led us, if the new means equalisation and inadequacy, then you are probably not addressing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u199	If you're kind enough to complete your thoughts, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u200	I shall conclude, Mr President. The government’s Programmatic Declarations are marked by unclearness, lack of vision and misrepresentation of words and works. Even today you are still showing that you are unable to understand how the developed free world is progressing. That is why it is understandable that I will not give a vote of confidence to the government. Thank you very much and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Mr Vernadakis Christoforos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, after the adventures of the last five years and after a twenty-five years of gradual degradation of public administration and wider public sector, it is time to bend the wand on the other hand. Public administration is in a very difficult situation today. It has lost nearly three hundred and seventy thousand workers since 2010, without having replaced them, and without of course having made the public less bureaucratic and more productive. It is in a situation of dramatic underselling, resulting in basic social and control functions of the state being carried out poorly. It has a bright human potential in knowledge, in experience, in skills, which remains inert, marginalized, despite the fact that it works many times overnight, to save what it can in the public interest. He has suffered a great decline in his financial rights, and perhaps the most important thing in my opinion is that he has suffered the collective and conceivable symposium on uselessness, not only in the last few years, but over time. But, without effective and good public administration, not only in Greece, but throughout the world, there cannot be neither protection of fundamental human rights nor an effective functioning of democratic institutions, nor a genuine guarantee of the guarantees of the rule of law, nor a full exploitation of the resources needed to finance the social state, nor an effective response to new problems such as refugee and the list is long. We therefore have a one-way road ahead, which is the road to the decisive upgrading of the administration and its real reform both in both a worthwhile and operational terms. Because this objective is a major priority of national scope, we will pursue the maximum possible social and political consensus. The government will move on to a rapid change in the system of public administration, will organise a radically different framework of its operation, a framework of social law, synchronised with today's social and people's needs, effective in ensuring and defending public space and society as a whole, and will eliminate current maladministration and turn the public into a lever of economic development and social cohesion. It does not intend to maintain an administrative system that failed to serve the public interest. It comes fundamentally to change a public administration eroded by opaque or opaque privatization, economic complexity, bureaucracy, marginalisation of its human resources. We therefore have a duty in front of us to achieve a great radical change, a central philosophy of which is the service of citizens, with a public administration that is flexible, adapted to needs, with each individual structure planning and implementing actions with measurable efficiency, with clear budgets and accounts for these actions and programmes, while respecting the principles of good legislation, with a real reduction in administrative burdens, with rules of transparency, control and accountability. Our central objective is a state of citizens with a balanced distribution between central government and self-government, with real decentralisation and with social control institutions and evaluation of the work produced. In order to fulfil these objectives, the Government plans to undertake the following specific initiatives to be implemented in the near future: A new institutional framework for a modern, operational and democratic system of evaluation of public services and officials, ensuring transparency, justice and social accountability. Adopt a national register for public administration officials with high educational and administrative skills. All public sector and legal entities will be managed by the tank of the national registry, through objective, improper, practicable procedures under the responsibility of the IASA and the National Civil Service Centre and on the basis of criteria that will be transparent, ex antely known and common to each declared post. A new institutional framework for selecting heads of government's responsibility. The new system will be based on objective and merital criteria and its requirements will escalate on the basis of the administrative hierarchy from the Head of Division to the Director-General. To set up a new dynamic and flexible internal mobility system in the public sector, combining staff needs in human resources with the career choices that the human resources want to make. The creation of this internal labour market will be mediated by an electronic platform that speeds up the procedures, ensures transparency and effectively combines supply and demand within the public sector. At the same time, there will be a major administrative simplification of the existing procedures for the planned secondments and transfers, which are also a measure of mobility, but the usefulness of which is now being suspended because of the extremely long way it is being implemented. A special priority will be given to health and education, in which a reduction in the number of administrative operations envisaged will be subject to immediate regulation. The Government will urgently proceed to some key legislative improvements to the Disciplinary Law of Public Officials, with emphasis on dealing with even a few cases where there is reference to a trial for serious criminal offences and crimes. Also, these improvements will arrange time-consuming legal gaps that cause delays in the award of disciplinary justice. Procedures will be initiated for a comprehensive review by a high-purpose legislative committee of the Disciplinary Law of Public Officials with a view to updating a modern, substantial and effective framework, which will govern the principle of balance in the exercise of judicial powers. There will be a substantial upgrading of the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration and a delegation to it of a dedicated role in supporting reforms by providing the know-how it has and fully exploiting its training structures through the Institute for Training. In order to fulfil the objectives in the field of e-government, the Government plans to take concrete initiatives in the near future, intensified interventions aimed at simplifying procedures and reducing bureaucratic burdens and administrative burdens. In this area, the planned interventions will combine measures of a purely administrative nature with the maximum possible use of IT solutions. In this context, the government's horizontal interventions will be escalated in order to increase drastically the level of interoperable connection between the different databases available to the public sector, the interconnection of registers such as ‘TAXIS’, the polls, the registers, the AMKA and many others, will speed up the automatic search for documents and documents between the services, which the citizen is now spending time, an existing unjustified suffering. Developing digital policy for the citizen and its needs, with particular emphasis on the development and expansion of the services offered by electronic JEPs through the "ERMIS" IT portal, will ensure the technical capacity to register and certify users at the "ERMIS" portal, with which citizens will now be able to process several cases from their computer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u203	Strictly a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u204	Society's access to digital resources will be strengthened. Immediately political interventions will be implemented, which will ensure that data of all kinds are made available, except, of course, to the public, making them accessible to all citizens and businesses. Also, projects will be designed and implemented that will radically upgrade the aged digital infrastructure of the State and create a technologically modern digital substrate with modern means, such as the "G CLOUD" and the "ZEYXIS". The digital infrastructure of the National Office will be upgraded, by redesigning the portal's electronics to improve and speed up the service of all stakeholders. Ladies and gentlemen, these direct interventions will also have direct effects: the reorientation of public administration towards society and its needs, the restoration of productive cooperation with public administration workers, the restoration of citizens' confidence in the state and its institutions, the qualitative upgrading of the services offered to citizens, the faster service of citizens and the reduction of the need for their self-representation in public affairs. The conditions are now ripe for a major, radical, profound change in public administration and we are committed to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u205	Thank you Mr Vernardakis Christoforos, Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. Mrs Eve Christophilopoulou has the floor for five minutes from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President, and congratulations on taking up your duties here in the Bureau. Minister, I begin with what I have heard from the Minister, saying that each regulation from what you have just said will now be judged on it and voted on or will not be voted on, depending on the possibility of evaluating these arrangements. I make one first comment: I am glad at least that the improvements will be made so that the jury will be removed from the public domain. Secondly, I hope there will be an elementary follow-up, because much of what I have heard from Mr Vernardakis is a dog from previous national efforts. For the truth, ladies and gentlemen, I will say nothing more than to put an electronic stick in the Minutes, in which there is the national action plan, the national strategy - which I listened to the Prime Minister yesterday, and I regretted that someone did not inform him properly - but also the action plan on e-government. [[At this point, MP Mrs. Friday Christophilopoulou presents for the Minutes the above electronic stick, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice. The signature of the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, was given for this statement.]] A lot of what I heard, Minister, is there. So we can vote for the regulations relating to this action plan. Take a look at it, too. Mr. Katrugalos had taken it before you. I think you'll find useful tools there for your work. But I have heard you say a lot about the last five years. And no one says what has hurt and suffered this people over this five-year period not only because of the European and international crisis, which has been faced with one-sided austerity, but also because of ethnic diseases. Like the Prime Minister, I did not hear the Minister refer at all to the previous five years. And one wonders: This famous five-year 2004-2009 ejection of deficits, unbelievable debt, the doubling of debt is unavoidable by a left-wing government? Left? And that's where he comes in - if you want - that's a big question. Because here, at least, we have a number of ideological approaches that a part of the SYRIZA wanted to see as very important that 23% of VAT on education is supposed to be pluralism, while, on the contrary, it hits middle and popular incomes. On the other hand, we had pilgrims in the sand, trissays in the donor, homophobic outbursts and various other misanthropic positions, so as not to continue. So there is ideological confusion, there is management failure - I will say - and there is a negotiation deficit. We therefore need to increase the country's credibility. I would therefore like to say that the country must face a threefold challenge, as the Prime Minister has appointed it. He talked about the debt, spoke about the evaluation. And he said, of course, about the recapitalisation of the banks. But he forgot, as you have forgotten, in the last seven months when the banks closed down as a result of your own policies, the state reserves were drained as a negotiating tactic - listen, listen! - and, of course, nothing went on that could even be regarded as a development at least. It's not just Squirrels, it's not just Piraeus, the port. It is everywhere blurred landscape in development and investment. So let's see what needs to be done now. Tough negotiation and national consultation. We said it before the elections. Government, then, and we as Opposition will vote for what we consider to be national interests, development and European guidelines. However, I would like to bring three examples immediately. I have heard Mr Katrugalo - trying, I understand, to cover a little bit of the embarrassment of a non-negotiation - saying that big pensions can cut them down. And he thinks a great pension of 1,000 euros, because he talked about no cuts below 1,000 euros. And I would like to ask the honourable Members and ladies and gentlemen: if a man who worked in the steel industry or in the Elefsina shipyards was receiving a main pension of EUR 700 and EUR 300 is a rich subsidiary and we are targeting him? Because your budget is EUR 1.8 billion, which will be cut from pensions this year. It is EUR 1.8 billion in the preliminary draft budget! Minister Karugalos isn't here. But there are other ministers here to answer. The second example. We have been told by Mr Katrugalos and not much that we in the negotiation do not accept everything. And I ask: which government has accepted with signature Mr. Tsipras putting collective redundancies on the negotiating paper? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I too would like your tolerance for a minute. The previous SYRIZA government - ANEL! And now I don't know what you're gonna do, but don't bring us off the back door the team redundancies. Third and last. Mrs. Fotou told us yesterday too much. I'll say it fast. He's here and Mr. Kegeroglu who can say a lot. Social partnerships - he said very nice things! - it's the 2014 law that we brought, v. Date of birth: (a) 4314/2014. (b) 4314/2014. (c) 4314/2014. (d) 4314/2014. Thank you so much for continuing our law! Government, however, because together with the law we brought 330,000 000 euros and a euro of them has not been disbursed. Finally, Mr President - and I will finish - I would like to mention the fact that, while we had submitted in December, ladies and gentlemen, the National Social Integration Programme - I have here the mass drive, many pages and for reasons of environmental sensitivity, I would like to put this before you - all that has been left of the SYRIZA - ANEL government at the time was the specialisation of this programme. [[At this point, MP Mrs. Friday Christophilopoulou presents for the Minutes the above electronic stick, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice. The signature of the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastasios Kourakis, was given for this statement.]] But what happened? The specialty was 30 June. On 30 June, Mrs Fotou, the Minister for Government, sent a specialization, which, unfortunately, the European Commission found to be unsatisfactory, I would say, because she talks about generalities, and not even financial vagueness and ambiguity. So I give you a five-page letter to the Minister, which the Commissioner does not even sign - ah, where you are, Varoufakis, to see them! - but a simple department officer, an official of the European Commission. Five pages - Column to the Greek Minister! I'm really sorry about that! [[At this point, the Member, Mrs. Paraskevi, presents for the Minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So "false words, great" and hidden truths must end. The country needs strategy, vision, investment, credibility, understanding. It needs social cohesion, but with sufficient technocratic, not with fears. You're being tampered with now and you don't want the minimum guaranteed income now. He's saying that. We paid for the abolition of the CSCE. Another tough negotiation of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL! Repeal of the ESS! Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore expect you to act not on the Thessaloniki programme - it goes on - not even the parallel programme - that goes on - but at least some very specific things that have been legislated and institutionalised and the best you can from now on in the social cohesion and development reforms. Otherwise, of course, we are voting against the Programmatic Declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mrs Vassilis Katrivanou has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes strictly, please. To prepare Mr. Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u208	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the issue of rights, because I think - and we consider it to be a SYRIZA - that this is a very crucial issue, because in times of crisis and memoranda rights are limited and threatened. And it must be a priority of our policy how to create areas of freedom that fit us all and how to deal with democracy and defend rights. Of course, we won't work in the void. We're gonna stand and build on what we've done all the previous time. We've done enough, even though we'd like to have done more. But the negotiation took a large part of the government's material and we recognize it. We brought citizenship for the children of the second generation of migrants, made a penitentiary law that relieved, brought humanism and was written with rights, was crucial, we created in the refugee structures of the first reception. We did, in other words, things that were necessary, which brought solutions, but which created a completely different climate from the previous situation, which was a situation that said, "Make life invisible", a situation that promoted marginalisation, repression, intolerance. We have brought sense of integration, respect for international treaties and human rights, a policy that combines realism and humanism. Fortunately we have the opportunity to move forward and to step on what we have done. We voted for the law on citizenship. We now need a government - we - which has the political will to implement it and implement it immediately, because it needs administrative acts, circulars, etc. And we'll take care of it. So, very soon, two thousand children, born and raised here, our children will get citizenship and will not be on the sidelines. They're going to be Greek citizens. Secondly, in refugee and immigration we continue the same policy that combines realism, as we have said, humanism and respect for international conditions. We have indicated that the refugee issue is a European and global issue. We have been pushed to share responsibility throughout Europe. We have taken funds and we continue in this direction. We built structures, made Eleanus, relieved many people. We did structures for unaccompanied minors in the Petral. We've got two more we've been waiting for. We ran the First Reception Center in Moria, the First Reception Center in Lero. The First Reception Center's coming to Chios. We did all this, we offered it. We continue with the same logic and at the same time give another government another signal. We train people and societies otherwise and we really support what Greek society has shown, that it can express its solidarity and humanity, offer in times of crisis, make us proud and proud to be Greek. In this sense, the government supports and gives such messages. In prison we abolished the inhuman and unconstitutional Type III prisons that have nothing to do with security. We proceeded to decongestion, leaving insanity and minors. We abolished juvenile prisons except those accused of rape and homicide. We left immigrants who were illegally held over eighteen months, because we were unable to get them back to their countries and who were being held in. So we have freed ourselves in terms of supporters, sick and underage. This created better conditions in prisons. Where we had six people on each other, now we have cells with two and three people. Most of the seropositives have been transported to another wing of twenty people at the moment. We have empty cells. The main hospital is only forty positive. It has nothing to do with the picture that has turned around the globe and sentences were dropped by the European Court of Justice. Now we're going to build second chance schools in prison. The Minister presented them yesterday. We're moving on to reintegration structures. Wherever the structure is to function in the Diabetes, which is particularly careful and a model. We're going to make structures to support minors. We will proceed with the reintegration that is crucial to us and will strengthen agricultural prisons and alternative measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, please. I will now go to what the Minister said and make us proud and proud again. We will immediately bring the cohabitation pact extended for heterogeneous and homogeneous couples, which has gone through the consultation and which we have committed ourselves to. It is Greece's obligation because we have been convicted of this. In addition to this, it is an overtime demand that we are late and which we must promote so that citizens of the second category do not become citizens and that we do not exclude the people of the LGBT community. In this direction something else that we will bring directly is the change in legislation on gender identity issues. There is an excellent legislation in Malta and we will follow it. Something direct that can be done administratively is to change the documents of transgender people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u209	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u210	Also, a SYRIZA position has to do with political marriage. I hope it's the next step and she'll be right there. I repeat that defending rights, especially during a crisis, is our key priority, because it is about democracy, humanism and social cohesion, and that is where we will rely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. I should like to inform the House that, because we are in a very difficult situation in time, we will probably have to talk at some point about three Members so that the ministers can, of course, put them in a reduced position, of course, so that they can say the timetables. I would therefore ask you to respect time, so that they can speak as many Members as possible, but of course to listen to the ministers, to whom we have had a desperate reduction in their time. Mr Georgios Lambroulis from the Communist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. What is confirmed by the Government's Programmatic Declarations is the profound anti-grassroots character of the policy which will be followed in the next few years, literally implementing the plans put forward by the institutions, but industrialists, bankers, shipowners, which presupposes the constant battering of our people. It is precisely because what determines the anti-grassroots nature of the measures is that they are part of and serve capitalist development, a development based on the exploitation of the people and that is contrary to the people's interests, people's needs. Thus, on the basis of the full and unnegotiable agreement with the European Union's strategy, which serves to lever the business groups, to support competitiveness and capitalist profitability and not to satisfy modern people's needs, the basic guidelines of the government's policy and health, welfare and drug sectors are being formulated. This is a policy and measures which follow on from the capitalist restructurings that have taken place years before the crisis and which, in order to achieve this, requires even cheaper workers and through the reduction of non-wage costs, including health, state and employers' financing of health services, the extent and level of services provided. This was the direction in which past and current governments, which have served in their policy to contribute to the payment of the State debt created by capital, the maintenance of government sub-financing in the public health system combined with the institutions for at least three years and every year, with a fixed sum - and this was also voted by PASOK, New Democracy and Potami - the increase in contributions to the health sector through a further reduction in pensions - a measure that has been baptized by the Prime Minister and progressive - the steep of pre-school allowances and pensions, as well as the financing of pre-school institutions by 900 million per year for the next three years, the re-establishment of the five-year five-year plan, if not a huge measure for the continuation of the budget. In order to ensure uninsured, only insecurity should be created by the announcements, since in the face of the economic strangulation of public units, any uninsured treatment moves to the same incomes of hospitals, which will receive more than the poor insurers, to cover the costs of the poorest and impoverished insurers. That is, a policy of sharing poverty. Only as a challenge can the people and much more than the health care workers in hospitals and health centres, who work in intensification and economic impoverishment, the recruitment announcements, since they are a drop in the ocean and a large part of them will be ancillary staff with blocks, etc., since they do not cost the state budget and are paid by hospital revenue, i.e. patients. And these are some of the measures of the government's policy, which in no way leads to the withdrawal of any part of the losses that the people have had in recent years. It does not even abolish part of the multitude of anti-grass laws. On the contrary, it falls on the territory of these people's losses, which are acquired of a permanent nature as an essential condition and a precondition for boosting the capitalist profitability and competitiveness so fascinated by the Prime Minister on the day of his Programmatic Declarations. This is an anti-grassroots programme that our people must reject, fight, not legitimise. Here, because the position of the Communist Party for a state-of-the-art and free health-care system, with the abolition of all business action, is the only realistic proposal, because it is the one that responds to the interests of the majority of our people and, above all, is the fact that it demonstrates the possibility of taking place, showing the social and political conditions that the popular strata can shape against all those who sow the poison of the capitalist one-way. Expectation margins, illustratives and compromises with bankruptcy benefits do not exist. The workers, the populaces have a way, to trust their strength and organization, to put obstacles and to overthrow all the old and new anti-grassroots measures, to pave the way for radical changes, to impose this development that will be the criterion of meeting their needs. And through this, a modern state-of-the-art and free health system for the whole people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u213	Thank you to Mr Lambroulis and to the exact respect of time. We expect the same thing to be done by Mr. Psychoyos Georgios from SYRIZA. Here, Mr President, you have the floor and if you can do it for five minutes, it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wish all my colleagues, but also the Bureau, good and creative. In this process we are called upon to place ourselves as government MPs on the government's programming declarations, stressing, specialising and highlighting concrete points of them. On this basis, I shall briefly refer to the relevant statements made by the Ministers for Justice and Sport. As far as the area of justice is concerned, the SYRIZA government already showed the first important samples of writing during the previous parliamentary term. First of all, I voted for Mr von Wogau's report. The first step was taken, as was heard by Mrs Katrivanou, to dismantle the Greek prisons. Indeed, in June 2015, the CTP, the Commission against the Tortures, recognised the improvement of the situation and the positive efforts by Greece in this direction. There is, of course, a great deal to be done in this area as well and they have been mentioned in detail in the position of the relevant Minister. In addition, positive interventions were made for justice and society in the previous period. In particular, favourable reforms were adopted in the Banking Code for small and medium-sized enterprises. Also, with regard to the Katseli Act, it was decided to widen and include public and insurance debts, as well as to promote the speeding up of the procedure of the relevant law in the courts. Direct and main objectives of the new government, as the Minister responsible pointed out, are the codification of Greek legislation - consistent and necessary demand for all - the staffing and strengthening of the courts, which is very important, and the rationalisation of fees and judicial offenses to ensure access to justice for all. Furthermore, the government's objectives are the electronic interconnection of the Secretariats and the Services so that the citizen is not troubled, the upgrading of the judicial infrastructure within and from European programmes and funds and the acceleration of administrative justice, which we all know is being delayed by compromise disputes with the participation of lawyers in each case. With regard to the protection of human rights, the SYRIZA policy includes an integrated national action plan aimed at the effective protection of human rights and, in particular, the vulnerable groups of the population, such as children, young people, etc., as well as the effective treatment of racism and intolerance, as well as by supplementing the relevant law. As far as the area of sport is concerned, we have taken steps which should be seen as self-evident in a favoured European state. However, the tolerance and favor of the governments of the country until January 2015 to the sporting anonymous companies and other economic and productive interests had many consequences for sport, infrastructure and facilities itself, athletes, fans and public revenues. The Undersecretary of Sports mentioned very serious issues that give rise to sensation. More specifically, he reported the application of the provisions of the Law passed since 2005 on the guarantee letters for all OEMs, their financial control, the Fashion Card and much more that were made for the first time in the previous period. In this term of office we shall proceed to a new sports bill, which will deal with other pathogens in the area. Also, debts of sports public limited companies to the State that had not been collected by the administrations of OAS and other stages were cleared, while the State Secretary’s expenses from 1,8 million euros in 2013 and one million in 2014 amounted to less than 40,000 euros until today, with nothing missing. In fact, these funds have also been made interventions, such as the OECD roof, to train athletes in the track. Finally, our priority - and I stress this, having served amateur sport - is amateur and mass sport to aid federations and clubs, but which fulfil legal and European conditions, with a gradual improvement in infrastructures in cooperation with municipalities and with a qualitative redistribution of sports projects, in order not to concentrate on an area. Ladies and gentlemen, there are often references to Lenin or to another literature. That's important. Things change. It's a good thing you're talking about in this literature. What I am going to say at this stage - because it is what you lack and it is self-criticism - is this: Lenin said, so that he openly recognises his mistake or finds the causes of the mistake, analyses the situation that gave rise to it or carefully examines the means for correcting the error, this is a feature of a serious party. This will tell him to fulfil his obligations, and this will say education and education of order and then mass. On this basis, then, we will continue to tell the Greek people the truth, we will not lose our contact with society, youth, movements and popular strata that have supported us so far. Together we fight them, we express them, and we apologise and account for them. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat something the Minister of Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, said, that we must continue to have stable radical movements and policies with a social dimension and within this difficult agreement. Because otherwise we will be able to incorporate ourselves, as we expect and seek the domestic and European establishments, and we must once again dismantle the plans with strength and determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo from SYRIZA. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Sias Anagnostopoulos, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our programme policy on higher education, education as a whole, is one of the most privileged areas in which the parties' policies and ideological divisions are reflected, whether in a memorandum or in a non-morandum period, particularly in the Memorandum of Understanding in which the discrimination between parties and ideologies from the wicked disappear, that is to say, from the wicked, that is to say, we are leading to the 'immunition of politics and the quality of the citizen'. The major question is, what state, what society, what citizens do we want to be? Already in the publicised bill of the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Education, the key approaches of our Government to this question are reflected. The last laws, especially v. No 409/2011, and No 409/2011. 4076/2012, was dwarfed by a narrow and antiquated spirit. In the name of the new and the reformist, in the name of the European and international prestige of the AIOs largely reproduced the oldest, authoritarian and ultimately ineffective. Direct measures. Firstly, with the legislative act which we have adopted to resolve problems relating to the end of the term of office of the five universities in the country, the anti-democratic powers of the boards are now being abolished to pre-elect or arbitrarily exclude candidates for the single-faced institutions of the administration. At the same time, we are reintroducing the election by ballot, while the possibility of electronic voting is provided for in specific cases. We are planning the immediate adoption of a transitional legislative framework to solve critical and urgent operating problems of higher education institutions, which have created unscrupulous malfunctions and practices that undermine their academic and democratic character. For example, a procedure for the election and development of PPC members before the branch’s collective bodies with full transparency, conditions of scientific judgment and publicity, which exclude client networks. Demography of the procedures for the election of the single-faced management bodies, the redefinition of the powers of the Republican Council and of the Senate, whose downturn has caused, in addition to the issues of democratic legitimacy, serious malfunctions in the HEIs. Reset the department as a living core of the university. The experience of the boards needs to be assessed. However, it is immediately necessary to rationalise their operation and to remove the contradiction created by their own operative, supervisory and audit powers. Direct and special attention is paid by our Government to issues of student care, feeding and focusing on students and students. We are committed to a social policy in support of the weakest students and students, to strengthening students' homes or rent subsidies, in order to meet needs, at least for the first year. Secondly, we are aiming at a radical reform of higher education after a broad and sincere democratic dialogue with people of science and education, workers and workers at universities and TEIs, students and students, with all the stakeholders. No radical change will take place without such dialogue. Let me remind you of a word by Angel Elefante: 'The reform of the university, to have the university we want, is not an act of instant, it is not done once and for all, it does not take place in the sky. It is absolutely essential that the time should be set for preparation.' The aim of this radical change is the capitalisation of national and European experience, which in the last decades of the prevalence of neoliberal ideologies has been brutally tested and, at the same time, has demonstrated significant dynamics in defending European academic and research traditions. There are events that call for the most radical tradition of Europeanity in its most resistance and democratic version. Resisting intact subjection to narrow-hearted ideas about supposed dictates of markets for knowledge substitution by shallow and informed innovation. By saying this, we insist on the project of a higher education project that will be a dynamic, democratic and productive parameter in developments that will seal the country's social regeneration and productive reconstruction. In this context, reference to production, markets, innovation and productivity is imperative and can take a radical developmental character. In the same spirit, we will move on to the further development of the Greek Open University, much more that is a mass university institution aimed at major population groups. Some of our goals: Opening up the PSC in new scientific fields, open access for those who wish to teach the PSC without a draw system, renewing academic staff by entering new scientists who are currently underemployed or unemployed, strengthening social policy by increasing scholarships and further developing distance learning technology. Also, a few words about lifelong learning - unfortunately I do not have much time - which is one of the most complex interdisciplinary and multi-dimensional fields for the development and implementation of social policies. I just want to say that the Ministry and its competent units are invited to respond to key issues based on three-fold transparency - social accountability - development perspective. I will close, staying on two very important points. Firstly, the debate on higher education is always exhausted in the management model of the institutions. However, the role of the university community, in times of crisis, is overlooked for the preservation of Greek universities at European level. With an equivalent rhetoric which has also been reflected in the spirit, but also in the act of n. 4009, the university community was treated as the problem of higher education. With this university community, in which I have the honour of being a member, we will be in constant dialogue. Finally, I would like to make a special reference to humanitarian studies and social sciences, that is to say, studies at the heart of the worthy system of Europe of Enlightenment and the European tradition of the university, in those studies that the neoliberal model of innovation is trying to push to Kaidas. In our universities, there has been an incredible quality research from which knowledge has been produced that would allow our society to redefinite itself without indignation, racism, sexism and xenophobia. Unfortunately, this knowledge has not yet been channelled to the other levels of education to create a substantial lifelong and public knowledge. These fortresses, like humanitarian and social sciences, will be kept alive. And we will keep them alive for one particular reason: because through these fortresses citizens are formed, these citizens who will no longer allow the public space any extreme murder, such as the Bridge, and no more sexism in the public space against institutions - and not just! - faces. Expressions such as 'Mrs. Tassia' or'some lady who speaks nonsense' show how much we need these studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u217	Thank you to the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Sias Anagnostopoulou. Mr. Fortsakis has the floor for five minutes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because too much has been said about all the issues, let me confine myself to the issues of education. It is also timely, as we have just heard the Minister for Education. I have said many times that education is a matter of concern to us as a political issue, because it is indeed even in relation to the economy that the question of education is more politically important, because that is where we are forming ideas, that is where we are formulating attitudes, and that is where the behaviour which they dictate and our behaviour in the economic field is determined. In one respect, then, education is and remains a political issue more important than the economy. But, of course, education also has an extremely important dimension, economics. And I really wonder how we have not taken a lead in promoting the country's interests to attract investment projects, the tripartite 'education, culture and tourism'. I was listening to the Prime Minister in the United States about investment opportunities in Greece, and I really wondered how he did not talk about education, culture. I think that it did not do so for purely ideological reasons, because we cannot see that education must be opened and that it must also be opened on the market. And I say open up to the market too - and I stress it! - because it's a chapter in the memorandum that explicitly provides for it. Within the memorandum signed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the country is committed to opening up its education to the economy and the labour market. This is therefore a direction that needs to be followed. Last night I heard the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, talking about education, and I was of the opinion that he has not understood exactly which Ministry he has taken over. Today education in Greece is in a situation that is truly dramatic. It's a mess. That means we have a very large number of closed schools. We have gaps - twenty thousand gaps, while we had reached twenty-five thousand - which have never been so much. Private education is also threatened by 23%, and we have abandoned the digital school. In the IEK we have eight thousand unpaid people, while the Lifelong Learning Program "PESSEOS" has been abandoned by the indifference and lurking of the Ministry of Education, which was not interested in renewing the European project, while the project was there. Finally, transgression is everywhere while the universities are literally dispersed. Since it is not always good to whine without making positive proposals, I would like to see these three minutes left to focus on twelve proposals and I would ask the relevant ministers to take them into account. Proposal first on the school gaps. I have heard Mr Philly say that this is due to the fact that there have been no recruitments for years. That's inaccurate! Greece has the largest number of teachers per student throughout Europe. So our problem isn't the recruitment. The problem is the use of staff. And that means, in particular, that we should firstly bring together schools immediately. Where schools lie next to each other, do not propose trade union interests, promote the interests of the state and of the students. And to restructure immediately all the map of school units, of course with respect for the island status of the country and the mountain regions. But if you record the mountain regions and islands it is not more than three hundred schools, which need to be maintained, while not responding - let's say it - to a deliberate restructuring. So there is a huge area of reconstruction. Element two. School types should be reduced immediately. We have six different types of schools, which are hampering the thoughtful organization of teaching. It is necessary for these types to be consolidated and only exceptionally to hold different types of schools. Element third. Let's immediately reduce the number of tutors' specialties. They are unprecedented, in Greece we have a hundred and seventeen teacher specialties and forty-four sub-divisions. This is a joke. Germany, which is the second country in the number of specialities, has a total of twenty-eight. See: One hundred and seventeen lecturers specialties and forty-four sub-divisions on one side in Greece and immediately afterwards Germany with twenty-eight. They have become specialists, not to serve students, but to serve the trade union interests of teachers. And that needs to be reviewed immediately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Point fourth sentence. Immediately break the distractions. They'll stop. Two and a half thousand distractions while we don't have school teachers. Element fifth. The administration of schools should be carried out by officials who have graduated from a special school. Element sixth. The curriculum should be done by a scientific body, not based on the teaching needs of the teachers, but on the actual needs of the students. Element seven. Consensus for a permanent post, if not a State Secretary for Education, at least the Secretary-General. Element eighth. To stop the distribution of one book immediately. Feed the libraries with many books to stop the immersion system. Element ninth. 23% to be abolished immediately. Let me stress that 23% came in for purely ideological reasons. He didn't come in to make the state money out of 23%. He went in to do private education damage. That's the reality. And now, when SYRIZA realized that his base is affected, he's now backed up asking 23% to reconstruct. And not only should 23% be left, but also a voucher perspective, which will be given to those who choose private education. Because they too have participated in taxes and it is good, since they are not charged to the State by their participation in public education to have aid for the private choice. Private and public education is the pillars of the public good called education and is a vital public asset, which we cannot distinguish in public and private terms in terms of the way in which it is taught or the body which ensures it. Tenth point. The paradox is to be addressed immediately and inspired by a new system of examinations, in which we look at a cognitive subject according to the English model, and therefore to merge and merge schools. This requires a specific study, but it is a direction that is extremely timely. I shall end in half a minute, Mr President, the universities which have been broken up. Yesterday, forty bullies went back into Mrs. Majuran's office, a member of the institution board, and threatened her in the worst way. And when the Quaestor, Mrs. Karamolegu, went to defend her, she also became a victim of the same attack. I have not heard the Ministry have issued any notices. I can't imagine the Ministry supporting this kind of horror at universities. It's time this thing stopped. And don't think with threats and tramps you'll stop those who think at university in a different way from you. The legislative act which we have heard will be adopted by the Ministry is indeed what shows how the Ministry perceives dialogue and national consensus in education. 90% of teachers have participated in the elections of the institution's councils. Where did you find that the institution's councils are councils that have been imposed without the will of the university? I think it is time to realise that the universities, with the law that had been passed at that time with a huge majority of the House, had found a path and a path that we should not stop. I conclude with the twelfth proposal by saying that research at universities should be set up and organised on the basis of a single body. I heard Mr Fotakis yesterday, who made a very good proposal for research.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u219	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u220	I'll be right back in a second. I would say that this body should focus on organising university research and organising it in relation to the market and the economy. Education is and remains an extremely important element. It is good to be able to take it out of the party fight, so I invite the Ministry to open its doors to the real dialogue and to call on the opposition and all the other parties to take part in the decision-making on the framework of education, because this framework must be lasting and not change whenever the government changes. We shall be voting against the Programming Declarations and on education as well as the others, for the reasons I have put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u221	I hope that I will be forgiven for letting Mr Fortsaki's thought of education evolve.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u222	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u223	You understand that it was of great interest and also because of special interest. I would ask the other speakers to be in their time. Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Incorporation has the floor for six minutes for his dentistry. If you're kind enough to respect the time. Then there is Mr Georgiadis the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, also for six minutes. Here you go, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I listen carefully to the Programmatic Declarations beyond the Prime Minister and the Government Ministers. I have not yet understood a plan for productive reconstruction, a development plan for the country, a plan for how to overcome the crisis, how to combat unemployment, how to create jobs, how the private economy - which is in a terrible situation - will be able to get ahead. We have not really heard of an integrated plan to overcome this economic and social crisis, which has been growing over the last few years. In order to create, however, the conditions for a new development shock that the place needs, it is necessary to improve competitiveness and the investment environment. It is right to bet for our country that private investment should be attracted to private investment, but this is where a serious deal is needed. The stability of the tax system is obviously necessary and since this does not seem generally feasible, especially it must be sought that the investments will ensure for at least 15 years the tax regime in force on the date of their entry into force. It is not enough, however, for tax. They are the spatial, urban and environmental issues. It is the distribution of responsibilities between central state and government. In this, ensure and make use of already existing and functioning structures. What is this again about setting up a special attraction for investment? Is there a reduction in solid government planning and active investment policies? Will bureaucracy be reduced by setting up new bodies? Isn't that enough for the already existing ones? Don't waste any time, we don't miss the agencies. Political will needs to exist. Break the inactivity of nine months. And something that should be kept in mind: no public at times can and should not be responsible for the creation, development and development of investment projects. That's the business of the investors. The institutional framework and the rapid implementation of the plans must be ensured by the government. In addition, investment initiatives should be directed primarily to specific sectors with strategic advantage and added value. Who are these branches? Why did we not hear an integrated plan describing the industries, the sectors that will take us out of the economic and social crisis? Primary sector, manufacturing industry, trade associated with it, tourism, energy and mineral wealth, modern environmental protection infrastructures, small and medium-sized enterprises in manufacturing and commerce. And say something about small and medium-sized enterprises, because development has two pillars in the plan. It has the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Greek economy and, of course, are the major investment projects we need to attract. Unfortunately, we did not hear in the Programmatic Declarations an integrated plan for small and medium-sized enterprises, how they will be sustainable, how they will create new jobs, how we will be able to escape from the crisis in the daily lives of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. You also referred to the 20 billion that we in 2013 had secured with painful negotiations on the new common agricultural policy and stressed that it was intended to exploit them. You initially managed not to lose them, because if there was no agreement, we would lose them, like the money of the NRP, a total of EUR 35 billion, which had fortunately been guaranteed since 2013 by effective negotiations. Your negotiation led only not to be lost. In order to make the right use of and not to make the mistakes of the past, however, we propose that a national production reconstruction plan be drawn up immediately and, of course, a national plan in every sector, for example in the rural economy. Its preparation and implementation, ladies and gentlemen, cannot wait, has already been delayed. We are expressing our refusal and we have said five in particular no. Our refusal to free group redundancies in the private sector. We are proposing to upgrade the Supreme Labour Council. We're saying no to new hunger and indulgence pensions. We reject the extermination of the farmers' tax. Farmers are now taxed as are the other professional classes from the previous period. What you are doing right now - and we have explained it to you - is over-taxing beyond what applies to Community competition. We respond to the imposition of 23% VAT on education by reducing the non-wage costs of public expenditure, and we say no to the insecurity of borrowers and businesses, proposing the creation of a new legislative framework for the regulation of red loans. However, in the Programmatic Declarations, we did not hear deep areas, but repetitions of pre-election generalities. In what areas, ruptures and structural reforms, and what planning will the government go on? There is no question of reforming the tax system when there is no planning and commitment. The place needs a progressive and fair fiscal reform with progressive scales and stability, reliable margin, rational burden allocation, tax incentives for young entrepreneurs. In this context, it is necessary and should be a major issue to reduce the tax rates for businesses and natural persons. But it is clear that the success of this objective is directly linked to fiscal consolidation and the restoration of economic equilibrium, which are absolutely essential after your nine-month government and which is not guaranteed by what you have presented to us so far. During the reading of the Programming Positions, a number of changes were presented to the public administration, such as rationalisation of the ministries' organiza tions or the internal mobility system. The government presented what began a few years ago and was passing. How did this profile fit with the attempt to return to the public prosecutors in their positions, which consolidates the image of a broken public administration, a move which, after our intense protests, you are now trying to collect? On the refugee and immigration issue, which is testing our country's and society's strengths, the government has presented an approach which could only be effectively characterised. The Greek authorities have shown absolute discomfort and failed to respond and act positively to this humanitarian crisis. We are not just saying that it is a Greek issue, it is a European issue, and the European Union must change specific issues, as indeed there must be a revision of the Treaties. But we were totally unprepared. And the Greek Government, which had as its main component a party on the radical left, not only had no plan but showed a handfulness with incredible statements at the time of the seven-month government. Ladies and gentlemen, the place needs a progressive policy. But we must agree on what is progressive and what a conservative one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Conservative is a programme that moves - give me both tritology, three minutes, Mr President - the burden of adapting to the weak, and doctrinal austerity instead of structural reforms. But he is deeply conservative and the populism he has cultivated and cultivates delusion to bring back to the earlier problem situation, and even without difficult changes. Progressive and progressive policies are to seek wider consensus, but it is not to provoke statism, adopt everything regardless of the trade union demands and especially to treat citizens as customers. Neither left-wing nor reformist nor progressive is this policy. The crisis will therefore not be overcome if a progressive policy is not really promoted. I can assure you, as President of the Democratic Left, that DIMAR makes a decisive contribution in this direction, based on its founding principles and renewing ideas. We are taking part in the Democratic Participation and we are moving on to the reconstruction of the wider progressive area. And because we have heard various statements in these two days, so far actually, I want to comment on two things. He said SYRIZA's MEP that central lefting is a danger for a new left-wing parentheses. So you are not interested in the centre-left, you have made it clear and we really hear it with satisfaction. Do you know why? Why do you not have a policy that is essentially on the centre-left side of either the European or the Greeks at the moment, and because we are forming the Democratic Partnership, we are forming the great democratic progressive coexistence, which will be the strong centre-left for the next day for our country. But you said, Minister, that we should choose whether or not we are with the progressive powers in Greece and Europe. We have chosen the moment and our choice is clear and we have told the Greek people in the elections. You chose, too, though. Co-govern with the Independent Greeks. You are struggling with a party of the populist right now, therefore, when you leave for progressive powers, first look at what you are doing right now, and if you are with the progressive forces in our country and in the European Union. The Minister also said that the issues of the humanitarian crisis are very important and people are asking for jobs. And of course, he said that from the very beginning they have been dealing with them. Unemployment is, however, growing. The preliminary draft budget you have tabled itself shows a growing trend in unemployment, recession and all elements. Therefore, with your own evidence, you are disproved. The humanitarian crisis is not falling, the economic and social crisis is here, and of course the humanitarian crisis has to do with refugees and immigration, so that we can be very careful when using specific terms and terminologies. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] We have a deep economic and social crisis in our country. In order to overcome it, we need a progressive reform policy, we really need a policy that tackles the problems in depth, which is not superficial, which will be essential, which will not be dealing with citizens as customers, will not have populism, we will not retaliate tomorrow what we promise today and of course with this policy will be credible for the next day and we will be able to look at citizens in the eyes. You do not pursue this policy, these Programmatic Declarations have not been presented, so we are voting against the Programming Declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, politics is a applied art, and it is not just to lose our time, and once Mr Blonde is here, I would like to ask him a question to see if he can answer me at the end of my speech. Mr. Xanthos, when the New Democracy Government gave insurance cover to two million insurers, you personally announced in the House and in the media that this was about a mockery. When you became a government, you personally announced a new ministerial decision to change what I, as Minister of Health in the Government of New Democracy, had, with which you would heal whatever problems you thought ours had. I remember well that you announced and a booklet of insecurity that you would publish so that everyone could know who is entitled and what. Your announcement was made this month - if I remember well - May or April. I would like you to tell me if this ministerial decision you announced has been issued so far, if the uninsured booklets have been issued and if you have made any change in the way in which we have covered the uninsured government of the New Democracy. And the reason why I ask, ladies and gentlemen, is this: it is good to talk, but let's see a little what is going on in practice. If what I had done, what our government had done was not right and had to change, I would like to see these eight months that you are what you have changed. I would like to ask, ladies and gentlemen, why you put it in your election spot as something you have already done. I would also like you to testify to the ministerial decision that has been adopted and to tell us the money that has cost us in your ministerial decision, since you also put it on your election spot as an event. Or did you lie to your election spot? I don't believe it. Let us see, however, ladies and gentlemen, why we are voting against these Programmatic Declarations. SYRIZA has been threatening the then converging parties with examinations for the Memorandum for years. I imagine everyone knows it in this room. The same party tabled a draft budget. So, let's see, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you who were elected to help the poor and the weak, what do you achieve on the basis of the information you have submitted to the Greek Parliament? In your preliminary draft, you admit that in 2014 Greece had a growth of 0.8%. It was the success story that you were mocking and saying inside that Greece had a growth of 0.8%. In our draft budget we predicted growth for 2015 2.5%. Now you predict growth for 2015-2.3%. In other words, it is 4.8 points of GDP lost from nine months of country's government by Mr Alexis Tsipras. For 2016, you anticipate your preliminary draft recession -1.3%, when we predicted growth of 3%. They are 4.3 units of GDP lost by Mr. Alexis Tsipras' government. In other words, in the two years of 10 units of GDP, 18 billion euros have been lost from the Greek economy, according to what you admit in your preliminary draft. See now, since you are very sensitive to the unemployed, what you admit to what you have submitted to the Greek Parliament. See, ladies and gentlemen, what they admit about unemployment. On a national basis in the medium-term of our government, it was planned on 31 December 2016, precisely because of the growth in the economy that we predicted, it would be unemployment at 19.5%. I repeat, 19.5% would have been unemployment in Greece on a national basis if the Government of New Democracy had not fallen. In the new medium term, on the same nationalist basis as Mr. Alexis Tsipras submitted to the House, Mrs. Koudoura, who also participates in this tragedy, you foresee 25.8% unemployment, which is a 6.3 point difference. Let's make the most conservative estimate of the unit. The average estimate is fifty thousand unemployed. I'll tell you the most conservative estimate, I'll tell you that they're forty thousand unemployed. That means, Mrs. Kundura, that because of you two hundred and fifty thousand people are losing their job. And I say it because you've had the nerve all these years swinging our fingers! I wonder, ladies and gentlemen: A review of this should not once be carried out? Should we not do an examination to find out who took the Greek economy and charged it to two years in its budget and sent two hundred and fifty thousand people to unemployment, according to your own assumptions? So he wants a lot of nerve to want a vote of confidence! But you are right to laugh. Mr. Tsipras isn't missing. He came to this House the other day, and what did he say to us? Listen, ladies and gentlemen. He's really great at this, I admit him! He said that his bank recapitalisation is the good recapitalisation. Do you know why he said that, ladies and gentlemen? Because the recapitalisation of banks, when it was done in the past, was bad for the bankers, we were instruments of big capital, but now Mr. Tsipras has found the good recapitalisation, the recapitalisation in favour of the poor. In fact, in order to find an argument to convince you of how good and revolutionary he is, he threatened from this sacred Step the bankers, that whoever, he says, is asking for money this time we're going to change him. I guess you heard him. Many of you may have been glad that you have a Prime Minister so threatening the bankers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u227	They applauded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u228	You must have applauded. Of course, as Members, you should know that Mr Tsipras cannot change the bankers, because the money puts them on the Financial Stability Fund, and only with the permission of the Financial Stability Fund can the administrations of the banks change, that is, with permission - listen to whom! - the troika. What troika now? That troika, which you had abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. referee, I see the timer. But look at a strange thing. The same troika that was abolished as a miracle now is the troika that you will welcome and for which the Prime Minister has told us here how important it is to pass the evaluation. But, of course, this is a good assessment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Georgiadis, I'm invoking the time unit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u230	I'll be back in a minute. Previous colleagues did not accept it at eight and a half, and it was a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u231	No, it took the time of tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, please. I know what I'm saying is bothering you, and I understand that. But please. First of all, there is no such procedure. So be careful, ladies and gentlemen. I know that you were applauding Tsipras, when he was lying to you, it makes you feel bad, because that's what you're doing to your voters. But that's what happened, because the administrations can't change them. So she just fooled you and the time you applauded probably thought "how nice I laugh at them." But I will say another last thing, ladies and gentlemen. One of the main reasons why I am voting against this government and its Programmatic Declarations is the choice of the Minister of Education. It's not personal with Mr. Friends. He is a Member of your Parliament and the Prime Minister can use him wherever he wants. But it has a very intense element of symbolism. You have, as Minister of Education, argued against the recognition of the Pontian Genocide. You know that this House, by a large majority, by unanimity, had voted to recognise the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism and the Minister of Education is, in theory, the responsible person with this responsibility to perpetuate it abroad and to do events and to pass on to the Greek children this historic memory. You, of all your executives, have chosen for a Minister of Education who was arguing because the Pontian Genocide must not be accepted. And only he, beyond the economy and what I mentioned earlier, will be enough reason to say a big one not to that government. Of course we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u233	Mrs. Kundura has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Blonde will answer us for the uninsured. I want the booklet to see. To testify to us in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a great honour, but also a great responsibility for me, Mr Tsipras's Prime Minister's confidence in reappointing me with his tourism portfolio. Continuing the harmonious and effective cooperation with the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, I will try to respond to all my forces in this new collective effort that is intended to get the country out of the crisis as quickly as possible, to return to the path of stability, growth and economic reconstruction. The previous seven months we worked methodically and quietly to shield and develop Greek tourism and we worked together with the service providers and the private tourism sector. We have achieved the historical record of twenty-six million foreign visitors arrivals and 14.5 billion euro revenues. I would like to add here that we will close about 15.5 billion if we add about 1 billion of domestic tourism, so that this year's year closes about four million arrivals over and 2 billion more than 2014, which was an excellent year, but we also had better and more favourable conditions. In the most critical period of Greece and in the midst of elections, referendum and economic suffocation, at the tourist peak, the SYRIZA and Independent Greeks have taken immediate initiatives to ensure that the banking transactions and withdrawals of tourists are normally carried out through ATMs. We gave tourist businesses priority to making use of the transfer without disrupting their supply and operation. We managed on a daily basis the reports of the media - foreigners and locals - who were stricken and injured by Greek tourism and the image of our country with personal interviews, press releases and announcements, in a coordinated cooperation with the EOT, the press offices abroad and the Greek embassies. We created the national campaign "Hapening Now: Greek Summer", doubling last year's bookings. We have proved that tourism is not only the basic pillar of our national economy, but also the pillars of development and social cohesion for the country and all Greeks. We have begun to implement a national tourism strategy, which we continue and will develop more in cooperation with the regions, tourist operators and the private tourism sector. This strategy is based on six main axes: Firstly, in the extension of the tourist season, because we have worked with steady steps and since this year's leading tour operators on the world market, they have been expanding their action from a hundred to eighty in two hundred twenty days, but also a charter has extended us the period until November, which is all full of our traditional markets. We work with the regions, municipalities, local associations and chambers to create new tourist destinations, but we want to ensure that the local society is activated, so that our visitors, who will choose Greece for their holidays, stay completely satisfied, come back and advertise our country when they return home. The second axis is the penetration into new foreign markets and the introduction of direct flights, which is the key to the current of tourists. We have established relationships of trust with tour operators, but also with airlines that have operated new direct flights in our country, which are going extremely well. We have managed to enhance interest in new markets, such as Korea, China, the United Arab Emirates, in general the Middle East, Canada, America. We have managed to strengthen tourist current and to equilibrium some minor losses we may have had from countries with an economic crisis. With the creation of new tourist products we have linked our multi-thematic tourism to culture and history, and we will continue with this effort in order to lay the foundations for an upward development process that will continue over the next four years, because our strategy is in the depth of four years. We have introduced the promotion of thematic alternative forms of tourism in cooperation with stakeholders. The Ministry also recommends the special committees, which will work to create an appropriate legislative framework, the criteria and the specifications and defects we have, so that we can operate legally, safely and also competitively within this international business environment. We work with regions and the private tourism sector for the single viewing and promotion of our tourism. We attach particular importance to boosting internal demand, internal tourism and sustainable development through a newly formed strategy in cooperation with local and regional authorities, but also with other ministries. We aim to strengthen and broaden social tourism programmes and for disabled, third-age and unemployed people. Tourism can once again be a public asset for every citizen. We codify tourist legislation and strengthen the Ministry's service structures. We really want to strengthen the role of our Ministry and the EOT in national operational planning and upgrade its administrative organisation. We develop and activate the system - observatory, satellites, tourism accounts - and modernise the tourism statistical system. We are directly promoting legislation on specific issues pending in the professional tourism sector. In the previous period, there has already been institutionalisation, categorisation of tourist camps, which has been expected by industry entrepreneurs for many years. We work with co-authorised ministries methodically to restore working relations within the institutional framework to ensure employment dignity and stability, as well as in the food sector, there have been significant and continuous violations of labour rights. We work with the co-legislative ministries to combat tax evasion. We are creating and legislating for a modern framework for the provision of tourism education and training so that workers and professionals in the sector can offer even more quality services. Finally, we support entrepreneurship and investment, which is the most important part. In the first seven months of 2015, we also launched the attraction of new tourist investments and the promotion of the existing total amount, when completed, of 5 billion. We have also managed to ensure increased funding through the ESDP 2014-2020 and by the ESDPNEC programme, which will directly benefit small and medium-sized tourist enterprises with EUR 50 000 000, in order to modernise them, the qualitative upgrading of their services. Together with the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr Stathakis, we will use every possibility from Community resources and the new NSRP, the Partnership Agreement 2014-2020 on the modernisation of tourist enterprises, work through the two special services available to the Ministry, the Tourism Investment Authorisation Service, which operates as one stop shop, as well as the Special Management Agency of the NSRP, and we have decided and legislated on spatial planning issues, the regulation of loans of sustainable enterprises and other alleviations, such as, of course, the creation of a development law with clear criteria, timetables and conditions of funding. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to tell you that our debt and responsibility is to further upgrade and shield the national tourism product in quality and in infrastructure, in education and in services. We are therefore working and working with all actors. We are appalling the problems of workers in the tourism sector with the new conditions that are being created and the consequences of the crisis. We are deciding together what is best for the tourism sector and in this effort we want the help and suggestions of all the public and private actors involved, but also of all the political forces, without purposes and browsing. Tourism unites. The effort is national, and it concerns us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u236	Mr. George Mavrotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish you success in your new duties. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We have heard the Prime Minister in the Programmatic Declarations making a report of ideas and good intentions. He said a lot, but he did little in the seven months of governance. For example, in the fight against the client state, which he mentioned, only the 4-2-1 was turned into 11-2. Poor performance! In my speech today, I will concentrate on the issues of education for which the Prime Minister of Flevari was a laudant, and now he was a pitiful one. I understand why. "Whoever burns in the hay, blows yoghurt." The same conclusion comes from yesterday's speech by the Minister of Education, who announced a coordinated national dialogue on education issues, but a dialogue which cannot be carried out by legislative acts such as the one he announced yesterday for the university institution councils. What's this premiere about? The famous MDGs that, when former governments did them were downfalling, have now become a convenient bread. Much of what the government planned for education is in direct conflict with what the August agreement provides for. For example, the institution councils that SYRIZA wants to abolish are in the OECD's main proposals with which we should be aligned. But let us also go to today's problems and start with the special treatment that is a priority for us, but also, in general, special education and support schools have the majority of gaps. Instead of leading these structures to cover the gaps, they come. I'm glad to hear Mr. Friend putting them in his first priorities yesterday. And in general education, however, things are not better. In primary and secondary education the gaps are still thousands due to the bad manipulations of the Ministry's previous administration. And since the Minister spoke - and rightly so - about reducing the secondments of teachers, let me remind him here of the two and a half thousand secondments made in the summer by the Ministry of Education's previous leadership, secondments to parties, to other agencies, even to universities and polytechnics. But let's get out of the way and go to what I want to hear from the new government. I heard the Minister yesterday talking about the autonomy of high school as an educational grade. We agree and have proposals for a decoupling of the high school from the introduction of an IEI and TEI for the establishment of the National Licensor, on how the pan-Hellenic exams should highlight critical thinking rather than papalia. Nor should we be afraid to discuss the reintroduction of the ten-year base for access to universities. If new recruitments are made in our schools on the basis of rule one by ten, namely an intake for ten pensions, they must finally be made in a meritful manner, in an ASP competition. I heard the Minister yesterday talking about evaluation or valuation, as we now call it, and here we have concrete proposals to make an assessment not punishable, but linked with motivation. To be able to develop on the basis of his own work and skills and not on the basis of his party acquaintances. However, I would also like to hear about a transparent and a meritful system for the selection of assistant teachers without any travel from party offices. As I would also like to hear about the enlargement of the whole school institution. I have not heard a word about the great victim of previous government, the pilot schools that you have managed to degrade because they have ruined the street. We want not only to reintroduce the institution but also to extend it to Greece with priority for the poor regions and, in addition, to extend it to technical education, that is to say, to have standards of vocational schooling and the know-how that is derived from the model schools will then be distributed to the other schools. Finally, I did not hear from the Minister of State about VAT 23% on private education, for which you were completely out. You thought - again guided by ideoscopy - that you would hit the schoolmasters, while actually you hit the small middle class. Let's go to higher education too. You should leave in the drawer the famous'multi-project Balta', which led the universities rapidly in the 1980s. I have heard the Prime Minister say about interconnecting universities with production, innovation, entrepreneurship and he has said so well. Does the Prime Minister think, however, that in the way the universities were administered that promoted this multi-brand plan could be done? With the hostages of dynamic minorities, can the words 'interconnection with production and entrepreneurship' be heard at a congressional meeting? I'm sure he'll understand why I'm speaking from his term of office at the polytechnics. In the collective bodies, students must not be defined by student groups, but be elected by all students with a single ballot. I do not understand, too, the precursor to abolish the electronic vote at universities, techno-fascism, as some of your comrades called it. I would also like to hear a few things about higher education objectives. The classification of ‘TIMES’ for universities for 2015 was recently published. Within the eight hundred best universities, Greece had seven, with the best of the University of Crete, in positions 351-400. If we wanted to set an ambitious target, we could say that by 2020 we would want six universities within the first four hundred and two within the first two hundred. Such a goal would strengthen extroversion and put a stop to brain leaking. Of course, this cannot be done by reducing the funding available to universities, which today has been announced by a 20% reduction. And close up with the research site. We heard Mr Fotakis speaking yesterday about the research, saying a lot and a lot. However, in the preliminary draft budget in Chapter 2.4 for the public investment programme there is no research. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I believe that it is never too late for a coordinate, substantial dialogue on the issues of education for the benefit of the young people of our country. And because the Prime Minister spoke of wider consensus in the field of education, I think it is time to consider the question of increased majority voting, when we have such legislation, two thirds or three fifths of Parliament. No, therefore, in the glue-glue legislature, for election bills to be redeemed, as we saw in the previous seven months. Education is very important to leave it in the hands of party mechanisms, ideas and collective interests. And I close by saying that as a river we are here to support.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Mavrotas, you were given a minute by the timer demon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u239	Yeah, I have one more suggestion. We as a Potami are here to support changes to modern European education of equal opportunities and to resist any educational regression, as we have done from February to today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we are starting the new parliamentary term with expectations and hopes that the new political majority of the new political majority in favour of the old. We have been going on with the policy of dignity that our new administration has been inaugurating since January. We have remained faithful to this policy launched by the squares and have reached the emphatic referendum in July, in the grand, not of our people, who have put a stop to destruction, but also the foundations for a course of uplifting, hope and creation. The seven-month government brought us three data and left a loose end. These are a set of legislative initiatives to support society, such as the restoration of injustices for state dismissals, the hundreds of doses, the arrangements for prisons and so on. The second and most important is a new agreement, an agreement that contains difficult points, but at the same time writes the resistance of the Greek people and their government. We have managed to secure a relatively stable financial and financial framework by 2019. We have managed to ensure the country's economic stability and to close down any debate on Grexit. The third is a negotiating framework for four important issues, which will determine in the next few years and are extremely important. These are the red loans. We are seeking to ensure the protection of the first residence for those who have proved to be unable to purchase loans from the so-called distress funds. We also want to reset the labour market. Our main objective here is to restore the foundation of collective bargaining and the protective arrangements for wage labour. We insist on the gradual increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of discrimination for young workers. Thirdly, which is also about my region, is the public character of PPC and IPTO. Our plan will ensure the influx of investments on the one hand and the opening up of the energy market on the other, but without jeopardising the public nature of PPC and the electricity networks, as well as of the land and water as common goods, as these actions concern. Our main objective remains the reconstruction of this public undertaking, primarily with a view to supporting it to remain a pillar of energy and social policy, but also to be able to return what it owes to my own country, the lignite country. This means large-scale environmental restorations. It means resetting land and land use, meaning complete functional relocations from affected settlements, meaning restoring public health, i.e. an important program with an important economic batt. It is also of great importance to us to reduce electricity tariffs for all users, targeting at one minimum guaranteed low-price kilowatts for people's households, other than those who have already joined as unemployed, but also to reduce the recent weights of the bills, which have come as a result of the distortions of current neoliberal practices in the energy market. It is important to note that while it has been achieved - and even during the crisis - a large share of the RES in the energy mix, electricity prices are increasing guaranteed and the environmental benefits and advantages expected are only a blank letter. In other words, we have an established strategic paradox that needs to be reordered and reordered. In our goals, too, is the possibility of introducing a specific reduced electricity tariff in western Macedonia for professionals and households with the ultimate aim of attracting energy-intensive industries to the functional redeployment of the energy map. The fourth is the new fund for the exploitation of public property. Because the time is running out, I'm just going to say it's another use, another sale. The previous period was marked by a huge clash between conservative and progressive forces with an appeal for democratic or non-existence from the crisis. The people's recent mandate insists that the forces of the radical left be in a position to make the necessary ruptures and reforms. This closes the previous loose end I mentioned to you. It proposes that our new governmental work should be the task of a left-wing governance with the protection of common goods and public space with the aim of a new "state". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. My companions and companions told me our overall political plan. So I conclude by saying that by tabling our plan for the next four-year period, with an absolute sense of responsibility and the service of truth, I support the government. I support the prospect of the reconstruction of the economy and the state. I am in the fight against the oligarchy forces, who have "worked" the strife and corruption. I support our policy on the protection of the commons, enlargement and the defence of public space. I support the new mandate for a left-wing governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Pschakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, Visualist Ion Dragoumis said that the lungs of the Greek nation are Macedonia and alas if it does not liberate. We, the Hebrews and the Thraces, complement that Evros and Thrace are the head of the Greek nation and alas if abandoned. These Hebrews I represent for the second time in a short time, which is why I thank them warmly and twice, and today I support the Greek Parliament. I hope, for the good of our country and for respect for the Constitution and for our political history, this second opportunity to exhaust the seven-month period and reach four years, without danger and anxiety for Greece, Thrace and Evros. In Thrace, in which micro-group pursuits disturbed the balance between the brothers Greek Christians and Greek Muslims, especially in Rhodope, the electoral law should serve Greek citizens' right to fair representation. The bonus of the fifty seats cannot come from the polling regions of the countryside, but from the multi-rooms of the large urban centers. Starting with the floods of the Evros River and unfortunately the unprecedented delay in the restoration of anti-military works due to the indifference and misery of government officials, long-term treatment is needed. Our partners in the European Union have managed in the Netherlands to retain whole oceans, so a river with two paratroopers can be harnessed with appropriate know-how and financial support from the European Union through a series of tools. Evros and Thrace this year were also affected by a destructive zoon coming from Turkey. Although we have been warning us on several occasions since March, no action has been taken. The result was to find Evros first under an unjust and humiliating quarantine. Evros must be protected, precisely because he is the last fort of Greek stockfarming against Asian zoonoses. And it will be fortified only by science, i.e. with the operation of the Centre of Exotic Diseases of Nea Orestiad and the establishment of a veterinary school, specialty that is in any case in Greece. This university should link the academic world to the businesses of two levels of livestock. Theatres - teaching courses should be the livestock units. Thirdly and equally important problem, it is the dual Dumos hospital which is backed up, thus leaving the northern Evros unprotected and abandoned. The dual hospital, political and military, must either be autonomous, or there must be clear legislation to better manage the smaller, especially, hospital units against large ones. The failure to exploit the possibility of interconnection between Evros and mainland Greece is also a problem. Athens and the islands of the north-eastern Aegean must be connected commercially, tourists and economically with the Prefecture of Evros and Thrace. This will be a first step in our vision to turn Evros into a transit hub linking the East to the Southeast Mediterranean and Central Europe. Finally, our cultural heritage is a multi-tool which we must finally use. I have already taken the initiative to promote the idea of using Samothrace's Victory as a symbol of the European Union, a symbol of victory, of European ideals and values, against all anachronistic and totalitarian ideology. It is also my main proposal to adopt the clause of accuracy, along with the existing clause of insularity for Samothraki, for the protection and development of the whole of Evros, by paying or offsetting the cost of 12% wages in the business area. I am referring to the protection of Evros, because the refugee and immigration issue is what will be more concerned with us in the coming period. We're living it in infancy, please. He'll be gigantic and lure us all like a tsunami if we don't show seriousness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is no secret that the government made plans to open the entry-exit point in the Castane Evros as a channel of security, creating a series of problems and dangers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Treasury, I'm invoking the time clause.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u245	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. It endangers our country's stay in the Sagen Treaty. That is to end the free movement of persons and things to and from Europe. Also, through Dublin II, we are risking the return to our country from the European Union of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, but also refugees, with analogous implementation of Dublin II, who will remain as a precipitation, at the same time as we drive our own children abroad. Because of my position as former Chief of the Greek Police, I had been in the unpleasant position to be accountable and accused of my fellow Heads of the European Union, the well-known Task Force, for our incomplete implementation of international agreements. And I was a recipient of thousands of illegal immigrants returning to Greece as the first host country. We are talking about something that is happening, not something that may, perhaps, happen. In the end, our country's single doctrine of defence and security in Thrace is being tested in the present situation. They are consequences which have no justification. At our sea borders, organized international crime is playing with people's souls...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Treasury, as former Chief, you must enforce the time as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u247	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is the first time I've spoken to the House. Please let me have your tolerance and your sympathy. Thank you very much. The refugee issue must be dealt with in its humanitarian dimension, without disrupting geopolitical balance. To that end, I propose the following three axes. Firstly, the creation of special monitoring centres, in countries near Syria, namely Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, which are essentially first host countries, where the UN and its existing institutions will identify and share them, institutionally and together, directly in the countries of the European Union and not through Greece. Secondly, the exercise of diplomatic and political pressure on these countries, especially Turkey, to finally adopt a more responsible policy at their points of entry and exit, with substantial conditions, with regard to those who enter them and to help stop identifying the real refugees with illegal immigrants from countries under the peace regime. Thirdly, the Member States of the European Union should adopt a single operational plan, under FRONTEX, for the purpose of safeguarding the European Union's land and sea borders, as laid down in Article 12 of the Schengen Treaty. In addition, for Greece, I propose that the police schools in Thrace also develop in post-training schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Treasury, leave something for the second appearance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u249	Sure. I have made these proposals known, through the letters I sent to the President of the Republic, to the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, to the Prime Minister of the country, to the late Archbishop of Athens, to the Greek Commissioner, to the President of the New Democracy and to all the actors and local actors of Evros. I put these letters in copies for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Theodora Jacquez has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek industry, the time-consuming value of Greek entrepreneurship has been showing a number of decades of constant decline in its GDP participation, so that it is below 10%, as opposed to 15.1% of the European average, depriving the Greek economy of a strong pillar of growth and employment for exiting the crisis that has plagued our country since 2009. The recently published report of the World Economic Forum on Competitiveness in 2016 ranks our country in the eighty-eighth first position between a hundred and forty states, highlighting once again the enormous issues of competitiveness of the Greek economy, including Greek industry. These, and more I could mention, such as the closure of a very large number of small and medium-sized enterprises or the very high unemployment, which has marginalised a very important section of human capital, leading it to either migration or marvelation and frustration, as this implies for society, ends up with a single conclusion: it is necessary if a new start is to include the country's new development vision, the coordinated planning of policies and actions, hard work, but also a continuation, as well as a coexistence of productive classes and social actors in this new vision, to overcome the crisis and what has been negatively accumulated from the past. In this new development vision, the Greek industry has a distinct role that can and must help revitalise the national economy, through increased GDP participation, employment, as it creates more jobs than any other sector of the economy and, of course, the strengthening of our country's competitiveness in the national and European market. However, to date, the state has shown either perplexity in the design and implementation of a possible productive plan or administrative struggling, which is of course also related to specific interests of groups or individuals benefiting from the image presented by the Greek public and the economy. For example, multi-storey licensing has not been completed, as it was due, since secondary law enforcement has not been adopted and investors are now continuing shipwrecks in a sea of bureaucratic demands, opacity, but also transactions under the table, while legality is punished and illegality and arbitraryity is actually rewarded. So who is the loser of this regime? Who else, of course, than the Greek citizen himself, who, as a worker, pays high taxes in an economy with an arable productive cycle or as an unemployed person lives in a permanent despair regime, those who have, of course, remained in our country from this huge inert human capital. This is what the government has in front of it, and that is what has determined the political decision to set up a new ministry, or I would say re-establishing the Ministry of Industry. The establishment of the Ministry marks the upgrading of industrial policy as the central axis of government policy in the country's new development and productive model. The development through private investment in the real economy - and indeed industrial investment - is the main lever of the new development model, which will reintegrate our country into the healthy cycle of production. In industry, our new development vision is summarised in the threefold: relaunching, productive reconstruction and development. Our priority in this direction is the preparation of the country's national industrial policy. It goes without saying that the development of industrial policy, particularly in the current exceptional economic situation, must be the product of a co-formulation of the government with the people involved in industrial production and, above all, the entrepreneurship in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the formulation of long-term industrial policy is evidently beyond that it is only the short-term economic situation or the cycle of this government, but it is also about long-term planning in the context of European labour-sharing. This is why the establishment of an executive collective advisory body to prioritise the objectives of industrial production is under way, the National Council for Industry in standards and structure of the respective French, with the participation of producers, social classes, the relevant ministries for the formulation of national objectives and policies. This body will serve as a catalyst for cooperation and consultation, as well as for monitoring the implementation of industrial objectives, for dealing with issues that are agitating businesses, for example, the energy issue, the tax system, the red business loans, the second opportunity and many other such vital issues. Ladies and gentlemen, the reconstruction of the country's productive base and the development - which is the major economic and society for exiting the crisis and increasing employment - must be based on a different philosophy on the industrial policy to be pursued. The drafting of the new policy must include all those elements and parameters which will lead to improvements first of all in the business environment by simplifying the licensing procedures of enterprises, since it has emerged from multiple studies and research as a determining factor in attracting investment. Law 4262/2014 concerns the simplification of the authorisation for the exercise of economic activities and its implementation is a direct priority for the Ministry. The amendments necessary to improve its functionality are already being considered and an interministerial project management team has been set up to deal with the implementation of the law. This includes food and beverage processing, sanitary shops, mining activities and tourism as 30% of the implementation activities of the law. The aim is until the end of June 2016 and in close cooperation with the World Bank to achieve the desired simplification in licensing through the full redesign of licensing procedures. Our policies also lead to the development of electronic licensing services, the provision of digital services to investors in processing, the improvement of industrial support structures and infrastructures such as digital databases and information and networking platforms, market surveillance, industrial products and quality services. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] Especially in the area of the marketing and handling of liquid fuels are existing problems - and they will be dealt with immediately - while the state will establish rules for the control of the entire range of the movement of liquid fuels. Equally crucial in our effort to change the production model in the country is the qualitative increase in investment based on upgrading and improving the human potential that works in industry, the change in the country's productive, development model, which is based on strengthening the policies to improve productivity and competitiveness of industry with new forms of corporate partnerships such as Clusters and chains of value, the promotion - integrating business innovation and extroversion with high value added products...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u252	Mrs. Jackrey, you're expecting a lot of your colleagues to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, the industry has been silent for twenty years. I think she deserves two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u254	I invoke the minister's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u255	The MPs won't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u256	For the first time, I would ask you and the House to understand this, as this is the first time. It will also build on promoting and supporting new forms of entrepreneurship in modern areas of the new priority sectors, such as information and communication technologies and new technologies, new materials, environment, energy, mineral wealth, supply chain, creative industries, including, of course, crafts, pharmaceutical industry and medical equipment as key factors in modern growth of production and the economy. At the same time we also need to act in coordination with other ministries...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u257	Mrs. Jackres, please leave something to discuss the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u258	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u259	I say, leave something to the budget debate. There's no more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u260	I shall say two more points, Mr President, and I shall close. Coordination with other Ministries on taxation, the environment and land planning is needed, but above all energy, as the development of an energy strategy and the development of an effective pricing policy is a necessary prerequisite for sustainable economic growth and for improving the competitiveness of Greek production potential. We have three tools for drafting these policies, the ESRB and in particular the ENPANEC, the new development law and the EIF, which will be remodeled to include new financial instruments to support small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. Our aim is to make best use of the possibilities offered to us by these tools for implementing measures and actions, in order to achieve the strategic objectives of the policies that I described for the reconstruction and development of the country's productive base in the manufacturing sector on modern terms, in order to improve the participation of industry in GDP, to create new, stable, quality jobs and to achieve the European Union's policy objective of increasing the share of manufacturing in GDP by 20% by 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, our national industry - and so we must now approach it, as a national and not a class strategy - has the need to protect, strengthen and upgrade its role in domestic production and the reconstruction of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u261	Mrs. Jackrey, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u262	Only through a pie growing - and I am not saying anything new - can we reduce burdens on small and medium-sized incomes, claim better paid jobs, and finally, a new role for our country in Europe and the world. The urination of the closed gates and the hot machines led us to economic, social, political surfing and led us to growth but not growth. The country, ladies and gentlemen, really fell from the European hour in 2009. It's time to get up, it's time to implement an industrial reconstruction plan. To this end, we shall proceed unscrupulously. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u263	I would like to thank Mrs Jackson for accepting the request from the Bureau. Colleagues, my fellow Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, is requesting permission for his absence abroad from 10 to 12 October and 15 to 16 October in order to take part in conferences. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u264	The House approved the requested permission. Mr. Michos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Our homeland is in a very bad situation. No one has been found in charge so far, but it is not going to be found. Nobody's accounted for. Why did we go in and how we entered EMU no one talks. About how we went bankrupt with fake ELSTAT, by Mr. Georgiou, no one speaks. You said here on the Left for clearance, for truths, but nothing, you continue the same violin as the others. With the debts of the parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK, what will happen? Will they be erased? What are you going to do with SYRIZA? Will you give them away? Will you continue what the previous governments have done? With the canal debts? Is the channels above everything? Do domestic pimps run to you too? You said you'd put some of them in place, but there's nothing going to be done. But we also have HOCHTIEF, the pimps of Germany and the 550 million VAT to the Greek State, and nobody speaks. And they say that 'We are not giving you you', but the Germans demand that our partners, our Europeans, our friends. Are you going to do something about this? I guess not, huh? You'll let them. They'll owe you, and you'll do the Greeks. You'll suck them, like the previous governments, the blood of the reed until you drain them. We've got nearly nine thousand suicides, a genocide in our homeland, and no one's talking, no one's been charged with this. They killed themselves? There would be a reason. But you and the previous governments continue. You ask the Greeks to pay, pay, pay, pay. How long will they pay? Something was heard a while ago - I don't know what's going to happen and what's not happening - that there's going to be a haircut in the deposits. I, of course, think it will. You said that wouldn't happen either. For the 'SIEMENS' scandal, won't you do anything? Only who owes five and ten thousand euros to the public or to the banks will you be shut down in jail and chasing him? Are we gonna have confiscations like this in a while? The other submarine scandals, Batoped, will you leave them like this? Anything about this? I've heard a lot about farmers, about primary production. What are you going to do for farmers? Did you put the straw and pit in 23%, which is one of the cheapest feed for some poor farmers and farmers who are trying to support a small herd? Are you trying to break them down? We'll come back with your policy at the time of the chips. Because the chips that will stay from now on in our homeland, which will sow two and three thousand acres, have the possibility of paying VAT and having books of revenue and expense, but the rest of them will not have it. But we have another big issue. What about the mortgages that had been invaded by farmers in northern Greece and the land confiscated? Something has been heard that some businessmen will come from Israel to get hundreds of thousands of acres. Will you take these from the farmers and give them elsewhere? Can you explain to us and the world what has to be done? When Mr Samaras had gone to Israel, he had made the deal. Will you sign it, too, will you continue with it? I guess that's the way it's gonna happen. If we don't start, ladies and gentlemen, quickly primary production in our country, we'll start producing and not just importing, we'll never raise a head. I believe that you - I wish I could go out with a liar - will continue the policy of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, of the past governments, that is to say, all of us. We no longer have self-sufficiency in anything and a state which has no self-sufficiency in weapons, medicines, food is nothing, it is fully controlled and then becomes the people of that state a slave. And that's what we're gonna be in a few years and very soon, slaves for life. That is why our partners in Europe and our allies are preparing us to make slaves, and you will continue to do so. What are you going to do with the bankers? Are we going to depend on them all the time? Is the money coming for support going to the banks and to big-workers of the NSRF? That's probably what's gonna happen. It's not gonna change anything about it. However, I have heard Mr Georgiadis here and Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf speak about national issues. What national issues, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Does Cyprus lie long? The name "Macedonia" that I heard yesterday by your speakers, which former Prime Minister of yours said in ten years will have been forgotten? Do you forget about this? Now you remembered your country? Didn't you sign for citizenship, did you bring the anti-racist law? You don't talk, don't talk! Lefters are much cleaner than you are. Do you know why? Because they say "We don't care about national symbols, we don't care about borders, we don't care about anything". But what are you doing? Keep going, your way. In the words you are good, you too, in the deeds you have done nothing. As you did nothing about the Middle East Christians, who were slaughtered by ISIS and the Islamic State, and you supported NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u266	Thank you. Mr. Lappas Spydonas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the third victory of SYRIZA goes beyond the borders of our country, spreads to the societies of the countries of the European South and heats the hearts of European citizens, who are now beginning to hope that the ideas of the Left are slowly gaining ground for the abolition of austerity, internal devaluation, the committee, the minimum democracy and the state of need as set out by Georgian Agaben. First and for the first time throughout Europe, SYRIZA at the negotiation stage has thrown the neoliberal dogma into question, and it has already started this sowing that the debate on another economic and social policy path should be generalised. Today, along with SYRIZA, is the "Bloco of the Left" in Portugal, which doubled its powers and vigorously struggling for the creation of the second government of the left, socialist and progressive forces in Europe. Indeed, the political map of the European South is changing slowly and largely, especially after the election of the SYRIZA in Greece. It follows that Spain, Italy, Ireland. This is the only way of hope for all the peoples of Europe to put an end to the austerity and the limitation of democracy. It is characteristic of this slow, of course, but of constant change what Anna Gomez said yesterday, the top member of "Bloko", who said this - our PASOK friends, take note of it - "We cannot allow the return of the right and the austerity. If we do not assume our historical responsibility now, we will have the end of the PASOK in Greece." He added: "We cannot continue to serve the needs of a neoliberal agenda that destroys the social state, democracy, trust in the European Union. The Socialist Party has historical responsibility for the citizens of the country and for European citizens. We must begin to change the balance of forces that exist today, not only in the socialist family but also in general, in favour of democratic, progressive and left-wing forces." You, gentlemen of PASOK, have become involved with the Greek Right and have imposed the spiral of terror of austerity, internal devaluation and the limitation of democratic and labour rights. But it is not just your friends and the socialists of Bloco. Yesterday's announcement of the Socialists of Belgium, who issued a statement and expressed the intention...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u268	Say something about the Annells and leave the rest! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u269	Please, be quiet! Mr. Kegeroglu, please! Go on, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, my time. I overlook Mr. Kegeroglu's discomfort. We don't see you, sir. Your colleagues from Europe say it, the socialists, your friends, who said: 'We are paving the way for consultation with SYRIZA in Greece, 'Bloco' in Portugal and 'Podemos' in Spain'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u271	Take your burnt-up and go!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u272	Don't listen to them if you don't want to, it's okay if you're so annoyed! One - one of the experimental animals of austerity, Mr. Kegeroglu, raise their stature. SYRIZA has thrown the seed and with the development of the progressive and left-wing forces in Europe, our country will also benefit, because in the future of negotiating contacts and meetings it will now have new allies. That is what is happening in Europe. Now I would like to say a few things about the Programming Declarations. The Prime Minister said yesterday - and I repeat - that there is a scope to develop a parallel programme for our Government, since a set of political interventions can bring compensation and countermeasures to the most extreme and cruel terms of the agreement. And indeed these are purely political issues relating to the phenomenon of the humanitarian crisis, the creation of a fair and stable tax system, the fight against corruption, interactivity and tax evasion, the use of the NSRP, the immediate promotion of the licensing of broadcasting stations, the implementation of a large and democratic administrative reform, the support of the NSR, the major areas in the Greek educational system. But all these initiatives and interventions, in order to have social acceptance and elementary political efficiency, must be attempted in an economic and institutional environment, in which three major issues have been resolved: the first is to tackle corruption and conflict. The second is the major administrative reform. Now we all admit that public administration is the great patient. The third is dealing with the humanitarian crisis. In order not to repeat them, the Minister said so just now, Mrs Theanoo Fotou. It is well known that the circuits that suckled like Lernaia Hydra every nucleus of our national and individual life, exploiting and wasting the national resources, the national wealth, the poor financial resources of the citizens, while undermining the health and quality of life of the Greeks. In such a derogatory and almost nightmareous environment it is impossible to develop our parallel programme, as it is of course. Its reversal, with a converging dynamic of all the relevant ministries and the mobilisation of the people, is a condition not without the success of our programme. In fact, we have a duty to overturn it, because we are also dictated by the principles of Left and Ethics, which must not be separated from politics, as Apollonius Rhodes said in 295 BC, "Those who distinguish politics from morality will never understand either. " [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As an option, I would like to say that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with a torso on the left, with its sole ally to the Greek people, will implement its parallel progressive programme and will withstand and succeed. The efforts of the European elite and the national oligarchy will not succeed. It will not be what Breech ironically said "if one people vote wrong..." - and it is voting wrong, according to our "friends" for the third time - "...then the sovereigns will simply vote another people." The centre of all our government and political initiatives and decisions is man and his needs. We will implement the guiding philosophy "Always of money measure to man" and the aristotle saying "Two of this equality sees cities, of possession and of education". In other words, economic equality, equality in education, equality in all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u273	The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a reasonable question in society, which is whether in this context created by the new Agreement, there is room for progressive measures, social policy measures, interventions to defend the weak. I think that the answer to this question is 'yes, subject to conditions', that will create a permanent and systematic effort by the government, but also the constant and systematic struggle for society. We believe that the left at this difficult time for society and the weak, at a time of poverty, may be useful, obviously, it can make the interventions it needs to reverse poverty, in order to reduce social inequalities. We believe that there are too many areas of intervention and reform, in the tax system, in the public administration, in the health system, and especially in primary care, in labour rights, in strengthening the social economy. In the health system, the situation is obviously not good. We know that very well. We are also fully aware of the problems and difficulties and the agony of people working in public hospitals today to keep them upright and to respond with an excess of soul to the difficulties and adversities of everyday life. The truth is that this period before the eight months before the system was a great test for the system and despite the fact that there was political will and an emergency plan, because it was just a cumulative effect on multiple negative factors over the last five years, we were unable to achieve a significant improvement in the daily life of the system, whether it concerns workers themselves or patients. Apparently the opponent is explosive problems. It is against the restrictive financial framework, but I think a very important opponent is the resistance of an entire system of interests, which has been maintained for years by a climate of lawlessness and political immunity in corruption, provoking demand, waste and, above all, the exploitation of the disease. We therefore need, in our view, to tackle both operational difficulties and intrinsic resistance, another political project. They don't just need good intentions. We believe that the area of health is obviously a field where different ideologies and different policies are tested. You must believe in equality and social justice to tackle health inequalities. You must believe in public care, so that the health system can be given priority over this period. You must have a say for social goods so that you can face health poverty in our home country. You must have other political priorities to look for a budget space to rebuild the ESS and the welfare state. We believe that what we need to do in the next period is firstly to have a functional stabilisation in the system. It is today in very great instability. It's terrible the pressure that feels tired, old and little staff today in public hospitals. There has been a deterioration in several cases in hospital supply problems, but I believe that with the interventions that we have been doing this time we have already managed to increase the spending limit by EUR 150,000 000 from this austerity budget that we had this year. This will be an important relief in the next period. There is a very well-initiated human-powered aid plan, with permanent recruitment, after six years, which will be implemented in the next few years. And what is needed is to deal with critical diseases and problems that have been exacerbated in the next period, such as the gradual deforestation of hospitals, especially in the province, by qualified doctors. But I think that perhaps the biggest challenge is to make a 'ethical' in the human potential of the system that is at risk today with a professional neutralization syndrome every day. The second level is the need to moralize the system and its anthropcentric targeting. This is a great challenge. We are very well aware that despite the fact that operating costs in the health system have been drastically reduced - in hospitals they have totaled over 45% to 50% in recent years - but there have been outbreaks of waste, corruption, demand for, trade with interests, and this has to be addressed. There's a concrete plan there. I think the Deputy Minister was more detailed yesterday. And the third and most top bet is to have a reorganization, a reconstruction of the ESS and public care. There is a need to implement a new health system, which will operate on the basis of the principles of universality, equality and efficiency in care. The health crisis, ladies and gentlemen, has a class mark. The psychosomatic burden on people is most affected by the weak. So there is a need for overall social redistribution policies to address these accumulated burdens. In addition to the need to manage a system in crisis, a system in an operational collapse orbit, I think the major challenge is to have a coherent plan of structural changes and reforms. We have drawn up such a plan with the technical assistance of the World Health Organisation, which is moving on three main axes: The first axis is the universal coverage of the population. The second axis is the transparent governance of the system. The third axis is sustainable funding of the health system. At the first level, on the subject of universal coverage, there is indeed an important reluctance. There has been a clearing of the population in recent years. Millions of people were found without health care. There has been an institutional framework, a regulatory framework - in our view, inadequate - and we have indeed created the conditions for a serious reorganisation of this framework. There was a draft joint ministerial decision, it was ready - it was ready at the beginning of the summer - but due to the developments and the freezing of procedures and the centrality it was not possible to implement. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Today, the Governing Council for Social Policy has been updated and in the next few days the Joint Ministerial Decision will be signed. It will widen the scope of application and enable us to remove this vulnerability for the Greek society at a time of poverty, people excluded from the health system. On the second level, on institutional change, reform in primary health care is very critical. Primary care was the big health system deficit over time and we know it. There will be a very serious reformist incision in this field. There's already a draft ready. We will consult with the health workers, with the honest and reliable forces of the health system. It will be a change of model, a change of example. We will go beyond the logic of the market in the logic of holistic care, the continuity of care, which will catch the whole range of prevention, health care, the monitoring of chronic illnesses, pre-symptoms, vaccinations to the hospital, treatment and rehabilitation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Obviously, there will be a role for the private sector in the foreseeable future. It may play a complementary role, it can really cover gaps and deficits in the public health system, but on new terms, with a new framework of contracts, which will broaden working opportunities for young doctors. It is a great challenge to stop the bleeding of scientific potential in the next period in our country and send a signal to young doctors that they may have a decent professional perspective in our country. And I think this should be a central priority. Reorganisation of public hospitals is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u275	We have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u276	Yeah, I'll try. In a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u277	But you're gonna try harder, Andreas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u278	There are issues of the reorganization of hospitals. I do not have time to talk about this. For psychiatric reform, which is also under way, we have a plan to renegotiate the previous agreement with the Commission. There are structural weaknesses, such as the lack of a health map, which is a crucial tool for planning health services, without client-based logic, without topicalism, factorism and ruptured rule. There are too many loose ends and, of course, there is the question of the funding of the health system. We must be absolutely honest. With 5% public expenditure as a percentage of GDP in the country, when the average in Europe is 7.5%, we cannot look forward to a serious improvement in services. There must therefore gradually be an attempt to bring about convergence with the new European conditions. There are many ideas to tackle the urgent problems. Knowledge and experience exist. Political plan for a new public health system, for a vision of disposable medical and health care exists. Together with the Deputy Minister, Mr Polakis, we will do everything we can to work with the people of the health system to inspire a new effort at this difficult time, relying on people who have really been struggling for the dignity of their public care and their ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u279	Thank you. Allow me, because soon the Chief of Staff will take the floor, to clarify two - three issues in relation to the procedure. It is clear that there are several complaints from fellow Members...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u280	Too much!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u281	...that they won't be able to speak. Let me tell you that they have already spoken eighty-six against seventy-two who had spoken to February in government's programming statements. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen to me first, please. By the end of the meeting, we will try to inoculate the ministers and Presidents of the parties as well to absorb a number of Members. It can't be done differently. Twelve Ministers and Deputy Ministers have left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u282	For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u283	There's a lot of them, but that's the way it is. It can't be done differently. They've already spoken twenty-eight if I'm not mistaken since yesterday. In this respect, Flevaris had spoken in a total of thirty - two. And, so, they're gonna talk forty now. We will give the Presidents the time to increase the vocabulary by 50% so that dentology, tritology, etc. can also be incorporated. and then we don't have a lot of phenomena. That's why we're gonna put 30 minutes on the Chief of Staff. I hope at 23.20' wholesale or somewhere else the Prime Minister will take the floor to close the sitting so that we can start the vote at about 0.00. It cannot be done differently. I would ask that we proceed like this. There'll be every effort. Presidents of parties, members of the Ministerial Council and MPs will enter from the order they were in. I hope the process is going smoothly to the end. I would be very grateful if Mr. Evangelos Meimarakis, the Chief of Police, would take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u284	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has raised a great deal of issues in the hour and a half that he has spoken in the Programming Declarations, and I would say quite rightly, because he has to deal with all the issues that concern us and that is why it is very difficult to respond to everything within the shortest time. I shall try, however, on the basis of his own reading of the Programming Declarations. However, eight months ago, Mr Tsipras, on about 8 February, you read this Step by other programming statements. They had nothing to do with today's day. It was completely different. That is why, in order not to look for them, I will submit them so that they can be rough and that colleagues know what Mr Tsipras said just eight months ago in February 2015. Please submit them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Evangelos Vassilis I. Meimarakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because, the truth is that only 15 days after the election, the political fraud you finally set before the elections with Mr. Kammenos has been revealed throughout. The programming statements you have read and what we have heard from the ministers leave no room for doubt. They do not respond to anything you said in the election and do not contain the improvements promised and they do not inspire any confidence. Because at the same time as you, Prime Minister - unfortunately for you - your Minister submitted the preliminary draft budget. You haven't read it, have you not seen it? Don't you know what's revealed in the preliminary draft budget? Well, let me tell you. It revealed the preliminary draft budget that after the positive pace we had in '14, the country returns to recession and '15 and '16. It revealed that after the gradual decline in unemployment in '14, it increased. He revealed that after two years of primary surpluses, the economy returns to primary deficits again. It also revealed that the Social Security Institutions are "walking" to deficits, while the public's overdue debts to private individuals are, unfortunately, growing again. He also revealed the draft submitted yesterday that the additional austerity measures planned by your co-government with ANELs exceed 6.5 billion. In fact, the budget expressly states that 62% are additional taxes and 38% are expenditure cuts. It seems that from these cuts in expenditure in your preliminary draft, 75% are in main and secondary pensions and social security benefits and social benefits. He finally revealed that you, as you said yesterday, only invest in political opportunism with the election of the President of the Republic to dismantle the House, political and opportunism with the referendum - parody to interpret it as you wish, political opportunism and when you closed the banks and put the capital controls. But political opportunism, and now that the anti-immemorial crowns are over. The barbarians are on their way and you're more than a troika memorial! So I remind you of what you said in your previous speech: 'You can make fun of many for a while and a few for a long time. But you can't make fun of everyone forever." Alexis Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Tsipras claims that the debate on Grexit has been closed. That's how he told us not only here but in America. The truth, however, is that you have lived up to this. You have lived up to the nightmare of leaving the euro with the criminal experiment you have conducted to blackmail Europe with the theory of games. So the truth is that the risks are, unfortunately, ahead of us and they have been created by your first administration. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, for the Greek people, is that it is coming very heavy winter, perhaps the heaviest ones that have passed. So it turns out that what we were saying in the election is valid in full, that you rushed to make elections to prevent the tax storm that you postponed for the end of the year. Because a lot of them should have been collected before. You have been raped to prevent the new taxes on our islands, farmers, professionals and those you are showing that they hurt you in the poor and medium-sized and weak layers of society, to prevent the cuts that you knew they were ready for pensions. So it turns out today that another SYRIZA before the elections, another SYRIZA after the elections. That's why I told you that you had a mutation when you signed the memorandum. I personally do not recognize you, but SYRIZA is completely different from SYRIZA's election. From the day after the elections, the Tsipras Kammenos government began to give up everything they were calling election, and from the aftermath it began baptizing "rich" workers with a half and a half grand and "have" pensioners who get about a thousand. From the same time the masks fell, the bill went to each family and started to rise. So, what happened? The tax advance has increased from 55% to 75% this year and 100% of the year. VAT increased to 23% in the catering and in the bulk of other products. All VAT rates in several islands were increased by 30% and will be increased in all the other islands by the end of the year. The VAT on hotels increased twice. The solidarity levy increased by 30%. The premium tax has increased. The rent tax is increasing and is temporarily suspended for some time - you tell us - 23% in the care centres and in private education, which has also increased. We have shown you in the election that the imposition of this tax is your inspiration. It was in your election in SYRIZA, because you consider it a measure of social justice. If you haven't read it, it's on page 33. I'll testify to you. And don't tell us today that you understood and you're looking for equivalents, because now I see that either you didn't really hear our proposals or pretend you didn't hear them. Because escapades are not a solution. Suspension, that is, is not a solution. At night you'll talk again. Make a commitment here and now that this measure will not be implemented. It's simple. You don't have to tell us anything else! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We also told you, Mr Tsipras, that before the elections were called, it was not an election commitment - that the government's commitments to the OGA and the farmers' tax - I am glad that the Minister for Rural Development is here - from us are not accepted as they are. You should know that. Because we have called on the government to listen to the farmers who are struggling to survive, as you must listen to small and medium-sized businessmen, shoppers, professionals, who - now seems your arrogance - do not even want to see them. You have to listen to women who experience the problems of each family very much, especially the multitude and the mothers of minors, for whom you have been very interested, but you are now cutting off all benefits. But also the new generation that saw her dreams become ravenous, dreams that you cultivated them too much. And, of course, listen to the unemployed who seek investment and jobs and say 'no' to the other experiments, 'no' to deception, 'no' to other taxes. We must not forget that often critical services - because I have also heard the Minister for Health - are guaranteed thanks to patriotism and the honor of the Greeks of professional groups. And I am referring not only to the uniforms who come up with patriotic, self-determination and are at risk for our own safety, but also for human resources - just now the Minister of Health has spoken to us - in the area of health, which despite cuts and delays in payments, despite the shortages in the hospital of human and logistical material, keeps the health system up and serves the community as a whole responsibly. You know, Prime Minister, it has come to be news that health care is being paid, that doctors are paid. It has come to be news that at some point the debts to doctors are paid, the debts to pharmacists. And by the way, I would like to reintroduce our position that the German model should be applied to pharmacies. Now the Greeks are against the consequences that brought the irresponsible games of the first seven months and no one feels that they are better today than January. Any citizen who asks today will tell you that Genares was living better and had more optimism. I would like to repeat from the outset that the New Democracy will consistently stand, with responsibility for the needs of the country. And we proved this in practice when the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government dragged the country on the back of Grexit, bankruptcy and chaos. And we proved it at the meeting of the political leaders right after that referendum - a parody you did. So patriotism and responsibility have proved. However, and then our parliamentary group, like the other European Parliamentary groups, gave you a negotiating mandate to keep the country in the euro. Not to sign anything, like you said yesterday, and get this back. We told you that the measures were yours. We support the country's European path. From that point on, you accepted what happened every month, unfortunately, became worse. If you had accepted the e-mail we discussed at the time, today things would be much better. And we gave you all a vote of confidence that has never been given to a Greek Prime Minister to go to represent the country. And instead of becoming a national leader, you again became SYRIZA's party leader and you came back to vote for us! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In a complete contrast, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with the SYRIZA and ANE leaders who said other things and others do, we neo-democrats can look at all Greeks with their heads high in the eyes, because we told them the truth, because what we said in the election is true in full. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We support the structural changes needed to improve the investment environment and create new jobs. We say, however, that you are directly opposed to new measures, new taxes, new cuts. We won't vote for them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We need, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, to open up without delay this Junker package, for which the Prime Minister has been wreaking on us for three months, as if it were his. He has not realised that the 20 billion of the NSRP and the 15 billion of the CFP are guaranteed by us. Our government has secured them. What are you telling us and you're telling us again and you're not finally starting to move on? However, we are concerned that the first government of SYRIZA - ANEL, as in others, has now shown ignorance, incompetence. We are concerned, because even now the contradictory and foreign messages are continuing on the issue of democracies. We see almost every day that one Minister opens a door to investment, and the other one comes and closes it. He closes the whole door so the investments don't get in. We have seen it in the case of 'COSCO', we have seen it at the regional airports, we have seen it in energy, we have seen it on the Tsipras visit to the United States. Mr President, you have arrived at the point where you are going against the country, talking about corrupt relations, and when you go to ask for investments, say that in order to build something in Greece, you have to pay 'under the table' to make the investment progress. And what's that? Wrong? That's a crime. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a crime!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u285	You're lost in translation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u286	Oh, no. We didn't get lost in translation. That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u287	He made the move, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u288	He made the move, too. I still want to underline...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u289	Is that a lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u290	So, you confirm it. Well done. That's exactly the difference between us and the big one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u291	You're the ones who made it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u292	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u293	If it's not a lie, seven months why didn't you do something? Why didn't you, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u294	We didn't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u295	Seven months you've been ruling us. What are you still waiting for? Only to appoint further? I would like to stress that we too, Prime Minister, are insisting and being with you on the question of debt settlement, because you have unfortunately created this issue now, where you have brought it, with the 90 billion times a year. Because in the eight months that passed, unfortunately, the sustainability of the debt has deteriorated, since the country has reappeared from the surpluses of deficits and, secondly, because criminal manipulations have caused great debt needs. So I heard Mr Tsipras talking about debt write-down the day before yesterday. It must understand - and I invite him to understand - that the decision taken at the summit on 12 July has brought nothing more than our partners were committed to the Eurogroup in November 2012. Mr. Stathakis is here. You've read them. You know it. I'll testify to you to see them again. I urge him not to forget that with his own agreement the debt cut is now explicitly excluded. There goes the debt haircut. You signed it. With the 2012 agreement we could talk about it. This cannot be discussed either with the agreement you have made. And to stop the story you're talking about and say again and smile about it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Evangelos - Vassilis I. Meimarakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because I see you laugh and I want to tell you that the Member States of the Eurozone do not want to discuss these issues at the UN. They don't like it. I think you should have been informed. Why did you go to the UN and discuss it while you know that you have put the agreement - and you have signed it - which gives advice. I put it in the Minutes now. I have also heard the Prime Minister say that it has colluded in the negotiations to support agricultural production and that for this purpose it will make use of EUR 20 billion of Community funds. And this story ends. Your own success in the agricultural sector is that you have lost enormous Community resources for rural development. You have been dramatically delayed in adopting the new programme and now you are going over-taxing farmers and reducing agricultural pensions without the New Democracy vote. Only with the vote of SYRIZA and of Independent Greeks. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let's go down. As you have said, Prime Minister: I have heard you talk about the bad few-girlmen who are fighting you hard and are after you. I don't understand! What are they after you? Do you have any sweetness now and they're "hunting on" you? You mean it different? Well, I'm calling you... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] ..................................................................................................................................................................... - there is no "o" - to say names and adjectives and adjectives. I guess don't say last name. A few people are familiar, let's say names, let's see who they are! Are they ghosts? Don't we know their names? And you, Mr. Pappa, where are you looking at me, what are you holding in a hostage this law and not bringing him to finish? To talk about him and move him through the media and applaud everyone underneath? Go through him, then! Bring him in if you have the guts, see where the fewer men are! Let's see who they supported in the election! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know, our Elladitsa is a small country and we all know each other and everyone knows our company, our friendships, our associations. Everyone knows who supports who. I am stopping here for now, ladies and gentlemen. If you want, I will continue on this, because the dirty war will not be unanswered. We, with the fifty signatures we have, will bring all the procedural documents pending to the Bureau to be discussed. Because that mud you flew in an election can't be unanswered. So you will come here with your signature to make sure that no one from New Democracy participates in scandals, but only by some other parties or other groups. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have heard Mr Tsipras say that the previous banks' recapitalisations have failed and that you will change the administrations of the banks, those that need recapitalisation. Well, are you really saying that now? Don't you know that you've already changed administrations and those that haven't changed, have your approval? Hasn't Mr. Drasakis changed the administrations of two banks? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you didn't read the draft budget, Mr. Tsipras. So unprepared you go everywhere, baby, and you don't represent the country like this. You are here at least to represent the government, but read something out. And if you don't want it, we'll give it to you! Well, in the preliminary draft, on page 15-truth, where is the Minister of Finance, he's still missing! - Tells us it's his policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u296	He's been on a mission to the IMF. Alas! If he were here, he would honor you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u297	Sure, he would. I'm guessing he's coming to the committee to read the budget, knowing. Note that the budget it has submitted recognises that the debt has been reduced in 2013-2014. Recognizes that from PSI the country's course has become much better. Anyway. So he admits that the new recapitalisation is the result of your own and disastrous choices, because you have caused a crisis of confidence - read the preliminary draft - you have caused the banks to shut down, you have caused the capital controls, you have made the new recapitalisation inevitable. And after you have done all this, you are now coming to the plans to deceive your own Members as well, speaking of changes of administration in the banks. And all this while the agreement you signed with the lenders and which is the law of the state, on page 1025 - to tell you it all - says: "the members of the Governing Council and the Supreme Administrative Officers of the banks will be appointed without state intervention". He's signed it. That's what the budget says. And he comes here and says 'I'll change it.' Change them, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I also heard you say that, contrary to what the previous governments have done, your policy promotes a fair burden-sharing. The truth, then, is that in the next two years, you will impose 6.5 billion euros. Of these, more than 5 billion correspond to cuts in wages and pensions, as your budget says, in an increase in taxes on small-scale owners and free traders, farmers, consumers and pensioners. That's the bill. Where's that account going? The rich? To have and possessors or go to the poorest? Not to add the reduction in private consumption that will affect the small enterprise, not to add to the increase in unemployment that will affect private workers. Is that a fair burden-sharing? Is that the Left you believe in? Is this the Memorandum Left that will implement the first left memorandum? But I am pleased that, in copying our own principles and objectives, you have spoken of the need for competitiveness in a new production model. This is where we are waiting for this. In any case, we insist that the country really needs a new productive model of reconstruction covering all sectors and all regions. First, I'd like to get back to business one by one. In the field of education, you must abandon bankrupt ideas of education. Ladies and gentlemen, excellence cannot be regarded as a retreat, understand it. School can't start with dozens of schools closed. We cannot allow again a handful of hoods to close the universities and not let Greek birds be taught. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's not new, it's not progressive. It's maintenance of the old, morbid, more bankrupt past. If, therefore, the government cares, at all costs, for the new generation, it is obliged to abandon these policies. Of course, do not dare to change books - where is the Minister of Education? - because if you express opinions like those of the new Minister of Education for the Genocide of the Pontius, we tell him not to dare. He's a prosperous man for our story. It's sore for the new generation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Apart from that, however, we must of course agree to invest in the comparative advantages of the country, more in tourism, primary production, standardisation and shipping with combined transport, energy, the pharmaceutical industry and, of course, in the natural gas deposits that may exist on our land and our seas. We have therefore heard Mr Tsipras adopt and announce some of these elements of our development programme, as we announced in Thessaloniki. But if he meant it, he wouldn't cancel the tests for oil research or he could improve them if he wanted. If he meant it, he wouldn't have shut down the mines in the Skouria. If he means it, he needs encouragement rather than terrorisation of the private initiative and of course with the decision of the S.H.E. And with the environmental needs, for which we must all be sensitive. There is therefore a need for support and not undermining new investments. In our view, a more effective state is needed. I would like to stress here that we are not giving the social sensitivity to anyone and much more to you. The myth you've allegedly drawn ends here. It's over in January, because now in Greece you're not what you're saying when you're in the government, you're doing what you're doing here, just on the left. And I'll tell you, because you forget, the greatest need we have right now is to create new jobs. In fact, social sensitivity exists when the government brings and does not push away wealth when it opens and does not close down businesses when it creates and not when it breaks down jobs. We therefore demand that the government, without any further delay, implement fully the ESDP programmes at the same time to unblock large investment, and we demand that our plan for the universal application of the minimum guaranteed income be adopted. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He can't talk about sensitivity. That political fraud is now enough. In the critical times, then, which our wider region passes, we must also see international cooperation and security. And I am sorry, Prime Minister, that for an hour and a half in your programming statements we have heard nothing, a word, about foreign policy. First of all, I would like to express New Democracy's support for the proud human resources, women and men, the Armed Forces of the Firefighting, the Port and the Police who are adjourned by the cuts made to our security. We reiterate, at the same time, our unscrupulous commitment to a foreign policy of open horizons, a firm policy that safeguards our national interests. We are asking the Prime Minister to immediately withdraw his statement of ignorance regarding the existence of sea borders. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There are maritime borders and we ask the Greek Parliament to confirm that not only will it abandon, but will continue to claim our rights, as clearly defined in the Law of the Sea, both in territorial waters and in EEZ. So we ask that this Step be taken to know everyone, wherever they are, how the Greeks in our fair and fair rights do not take either a step back either in the Aegean or in the Eastern Mediterranean or in the Ionian Sea or nowhere. At the same time, we reiterate in every direction that, as far as Skopje is concerned, the unanimous decision of Bucharest, which the Karamanlis government has achieved, applies. We reiterate our firm position on the Cyprus issue of invasion and occupation, which can only be resolved by implementing UN decisions and respect for the acquis communautaire. I would also like to repeat that what we have heard from the government about the huge human and international issue of migration and refugee flows does not grasping our concerns. It will be dramatic, if this lightness, irresponsibility, inability, which we met in the first seven months of your governance, continues. Your declarations for walls - fences, which refer to unguarded borders, do not benefit. Finally, it is not a solution for the government to close the Amydaleza and then stack them in the Area of Mars and in the Square of Victoria. In conclusion, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that Mr Tsipras has adopted our proposal for a bold constitutional revision. I stress that major changes are needed to shield democracy and serve fundamentally demands of our time. One of the things we need today is to find arrangements - I know that it is very difficult, we tried it in the previous House, in the previous revision - which does not easily dissolve Parliament every six months and have a stability. The House should be able to give solutions. I also think that we need to move forward with the revision of Article 16 on the establishment of non-state universities. It is incomprehensible that the perception that prevents the country from becoming a training centre should be seen progressively and that is not to say the unemployment of our young people. It is our duty to pursue the very opposite. We provide training services to foreigners and not foreigners to us. We can import and not export students. I would also like to reiterate the need for a radical revision of Article 86 as regards the criminal liability of the ministers. Nor can those from government positions be unpunished harm the public, nor can shadows be created on the right and unrighteous, and even electionally. That's why we have to get it over with. Today, not tomorrow. Now bring the proposal for a constitutional review to discuss it and move on. Eight months ago, Mr. Tsipras claimed that it is irrevocable that his decision to implement all of the commitments he had made in Thessaloniki, for the tax-free at 12,000 euros, for the abolition of HNPH, for the increase of minimum wages, for thousands of jobs. He declared that there would be no increase in age limits and finally told us quite differently today. From what he said, nothing left. Not even the thirteenth pension. On the contrary, it reduced them. He's planning on reducing them more. Instead of abolishing HNVIA and increasing the tax-free rate, here it gets close to taking us the keys from the house and coming in - we learned yesterday - the tax-payers and seeing it all. They're coming in. Not to go to fairs in Rhodes and Hermione to catch the little, the whacks. As long as there's evidence, they'll come in, Mr. President. No one has any objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u298	Are you defending the tax fighters? Do you defend the illegals? The ones who don't cut proof?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u299	Oh, no. I'm defending that the tax collectors are wasting their time at the fairs they went to catch someone if they cut off a two-euro receipt. You say you know the tax fighters well. Send them to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u300	Everything to do. And that's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u301	You don't do it, only I see it and you do it. Only the wrists I see and you're chasing. All the others, you laugh at them. And it's supposed that all these few of them are chasing you, and they're undermining you. Here we are to talk. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We, Prime Minister, have a clear ideological, political signal to finish this whenever you refer to the New Democracy. We are expressing social liberalism, with a human face and rejecting extreme neoliberal perceptions, which you have said are in the memorandum you have signed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These extreme neoliberal concepts have nothing to do with Central Right and New Democracy. Understood. You've signed these. We are expressing the modern European right-wing centre, which has social characteristics, focusing on human beings. What do you express now, can you tell me? Why did we start wondering? Until January, you said you were expressing the radical left. You denounced us as "merkelists", "memorandum", "profders". What do you express today? Where have you seen it? Will you apply extreme neoliberal policies that have imposed on you, but have you signed, why couldn't you do otherwise with your satellite party ANEL? And you're asking for a vote of confidence. Why? To implement these extreme neoliberal choices? Is that why all of you Members will vote for a vote of confidence? Because we won't. We're not extreme neoliberals. We're liberal with social, human face. And these policies are yours! You believe in the big and inefficient state, which will be maintained by many taxes from the private initiative. We believe in the small and definite state with fewer taxes. That's why I'm asking you. How do you express yourself, since you have no hesitation, any reservation on taxes on privatization, on HICPIA, on VAT, on popular strata? All these measures, what is it? Is it left? Is that how you put it? So while we have proposed that you, with an obsession - perhaps you have misunderstood it - should find a minimum of national understanding, you have rejected it with arrogant arrogance. You led the country to elections, you took the majority with Mr Kammenos and you did well. So proceed on your own, you have a very good majority. Vote and apply for yourself whatever you sign. We will say 'yes' to everything that is positive. We will, however, say, not in terms of the levelling-up of concepts, of stateism, of morbidity, not in policies on private initiative, they strike farmers, they close down small and medium-sized enterprises, not in policies rewarding moderateness and modest effort, not in government insufficiency, inconsistency and irresponsibility, not in the vote of confidence in the Tsipras - Kammenos government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President, Mr Maymarakis. Before we move on, the Prime Minister wants to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u303	I'd like the floor for two minutes. I listened very carefully to the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation and found that he had an excellent election speech. But, Mr Meimarakis, I would like to remind you that the elections were held on 20 September, and the Greek people decided and lost 7.5 points. You've lost your homework. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You may be in an election period. I've heard you and Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Mitsotakis. Indeed, this forces you to have a pre-election rhetoric. But the place needs a plan, vision and decisions, not election rhetoric, Mr. Maymarakis. And I would like to point out to you this: for the first time in this place elections took place not before a difficult deal - with other things saying to the balconies and other to sign later - but immediately after the Greek people know everything and choose with open papers who will support to get the country out of the crisis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you can't talk about mutation here. You said this in an election, and you say the same thing now. With open papers, therefore, with all the commitments open, with all the fronts open, with the agreement adopted by you - and I would remind you of that - and of course with the implementation of the legislation. However, the reason why I asked to speak now - I will have the opportunity to speak in my final speech - is that, once again, you have made a point. You referred to the major national, in our view, debt issue and said that not only did nothing change, not only did the country win anything - because SYRIZA did not win it, the country won it - but we are in a worse position than the one we were before July 12th. And for your bad luck, Mr Maymarakis, Mr President, this position here in the national Parliament comes only a few hours after President Olad's historic speech in the European Parliament, which highlights the Greek debt relief as a major issue for Europe. Who are you with, then, in this national battle, in this national effort? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Are you with Europe's conservative forces who want Greece outside the European framework, who want this debate not to open up debt write-down? We have taken a position on the place, on society, on the social forces we represent, on the future of this place. We have opened cracks, these will be widened and we will achieve this great national effort, whether you support it or not, Mr Maymarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u304	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Meimarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, I am sorry, but I do not understand your irritation and I do not understand your anxiety about who will be President of the New Democracy. I would say that politically it is not right to interfere so much in this. Don't be so anxious. And in order to resolve your anxiety, whoever is President of the New Democracy, the New Democracy will be united, united, strong and have the same view on these issues at least. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I didn't do elections to solve the problem with Lafazanne, you did it. We'll solve it here friendlyly, we're a company, and that's how you'll deal with us. So you will always speak with the President of the New Democracy, regardless of the name and surname. But I also consider it politically wrong to make such interference. I have not been involved in your internalities nor in the New Democracy. And it is understandable why you are doing so, Mr President, but I did not expect you to fall so low. I'm really sorry. I'm really sorry because you've suffered a mutation. The other Tsipras I knew. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it's true. Your issues are solved on your own. Are you going to tell us what we're going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u308	I barely did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u309	So, gentlemen, cut corn for that story. For the debt, Mr President, what did I tell you? Did I say not to open the debt debate? What's the matter with you all of a sudden? I barely told you to open the debt debate because you left us with another EUR 90 billion and we are with you in that. That's what I told you. Looks like you're not listening to what I'm saying to you. It's not just that you don't know them, but you don't hear them. Now listen. According to my table, from the International Monetary Fund, which you have - and the ministers can confirm - the debt in November 2012 for 2020 and 2022 was for 110% and for May 2014 it was at 117% of GDP. Do you know how far it is now, in July 2015? It's 170%. That's all yours. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Are you questioning it? Don't do it like that, Mr. Stathakis. Are you questioning it? Well done, 'we're not questioning it'. So debt, ladies and gentlemen, 90 billion times. That's it, that's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Mairakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u311	So this irritation doesn't need to be because we're together in this matter. What do you want to go on your own? Go on your own. And I see that with Olad now you've found it. You forgot 'Olandreos' and all that you told him. Finally, I should like to say to you, Mr President, because you are going to speak again and I am not going to speak, that we have not had any election speeches now from here, but we have become conscious of your responsibility and towards you. You kicked us, you kicked us out, you don't want our consent. Mr Flamouraris, who sits there, has repeatedly said 'we do not want them, we do not need them, what to do with them'. Now you want us? If you want us to say it. You changed your mind? Don't you get the pillows you're going to find and go find out from New Democracy? We will think about it, Mr Tsipras, if you make us a proposal that will be positive for the country, but so far you are going negatively, and so far we say 'no' to the vote of confidence that you are asking for this evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u313	The President-in-Office has the floor for a very short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u314	I'm not actually going into it. With my intervention everything I wanted to say, I've said it. Mr President, there is simply no interference in the internalities of the New Democracy. I want to make that clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u315	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u316	The intervention I made was political intervention. It was about the crucial issue of debt, the need to have a national strategy on this issue, and I have, secondly, criticised your speech, which I described as an election. As far as your internal affairs is concerned, I am in favour of the fact that there must be democracy in the parties both internally and in good faith, and there is no question that you have internal procedures and elections. You misunderstood it as a mix-up, and I wanted to make this clear. But what I would like to point out once again is that, regardless of people, what the country needs is a constructive contribution from both the anti-population forces and not criticism. Of course, we also need criticism, but not sterile and deadlocked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u317	Do you accept this evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u318	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u319	And as far as the debt issue is concerned, this big national issue, Mr President, let me tell you this. There are two strategies, one which says "great primary surpluses in order to reduce debt" and the other strategy that says "these huge primary surpluses, which existed in previous agreements, are the other person of a cruel austerity that destroys any development perspective". That is why we have negotiated with a view to reducing the primary surpluses, which were not only huge but also impossible to achieve, and at the same time opening up the great debate on the necessary debt write-down, because smaller surpluses mean that the debt is not sustainable. So I call on you, in this strategy, to think again, not to defend an unscrupulous tactic and strategy of the previous governments, and to come to this issue at least, so that this national effort can succeed in getting this rock out of the neck of the Greek economy and the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u320	For a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u321	For a minute, Mr. Meimarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, just a minute, I will not be late. Mr President, first of all I am pleased that you confirm this increase in debt. Secondly, you've got it all mixed up again. It's not with the primary surpluses, it's whether there's an increase of GDP or not, why is it the divider, if you remember well, huh? Isn't that right? [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Tell the Prime Minister. It has confused the primary surpluses with GDP growth. What am I supposed to do to him now? Well, therefore, debt is manageable if we have a GDP growth. If we have a recession, you will have no surpluses, nor will you have any debt management. You still don't understand that? Seven months has it taken you yet? That's how much money we've paid for these internships! Didn't you find out? [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Or will you have GDP growth, where you are going to a recession, at 2.5%, Mr President, for this year, when there was an increase in GDP of 1% and more - I am wrong? - and you tell your budget that in 2016 it is also a recession. So debt is not managed. In any case, we agree and tell you that it is not manageable. You're saying it's not because it's our fault, we're telling you that you've left us more. Either way, we agree. And we're going together to see how this is going to be done for debt management. But I did not see you summoning us to the National Trading Team, I did not see you calling us in the discussions and meetings with the lenders. Do you do these on your own and take the "tails" that exist from the Eurogroup, which you left and you don't tell us and there's a secret agenda and you know it? We therefore say to you, Mr President, that, of course, with the recession you have created, the debt must indeed be seen. I won't tell you whether it's manageable or not, I'll tell you we need to see it. And in this effort, we're going together, but you're gonna have to call us to come. And not only are you calling us, but wherever we say and help us, you're kicking us out. You've made it clear you don't want us. If you don't want us what you're cutting, and what do you say we treat you? We treat you as a Responsible Anti-Civilization. We say 'yes' to the positive, 'no' to the taxes and to the negative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u323	It has the floor for twenty minutes in total, because it had not been used previously, Mr Michaloliakos, Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's House is the result of the elections on 20 September. However, a vote was preceded by a vote on the agreement of 14 August, where the New Democracy, which is now leaving, had said 'yes'. Today it says 'no'. He remembered it a little late. If he had said 'no' and then, maybe he had won the elections too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u325	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u326	I would also like to comment on what Mr Meymarakis said earlier about the revulsion of his speech in which he said not to dare to change school books on the issue of the genocide of the Pontius. There is a popular proverb that says: 'You should not talk about rope in the house of the hanged man'. The New Democracy has forgotten its historic responsibility for Mrs Reposi's book, where the massacre in Izmir was called 'cohesion'. She also forgot that for her days a museum was founded by Kemal Ataturk in Thessaloniki, which also opened its Minister. They want to mention the genocide of the Pontius and they want to have a museum for him who ordered the genocide of the Pontius. If that's not political schizophrenia, then what is it? In all 'no', the New Democracy said today. In all 'yes', however, he said on the evening of August 14, when all these measures were described and the debate and vote took place. It was characteristic that the words of many of the spokesmen of the New Democracy and not just PASOK and Potami and the Party of Independent Greeks were revived: "Get us an agreement and measures are yours." So here's the measures. And now they have remembered 'no'. They think the Greek people have a short memory and may be right. The Prime Minister was also right to say that the elections of 20 September were held with the agreement of 14 August, which we voted against and which provided for all these harsh memoranda. Mr Meimarakis also spoke of scandals and about what is going on in the common sense within the whole of the Greek people for guilty civilians. As far as the Lagard list is concerned, we still have not seen any political faces appear, but in an interview Faltsini himself, the man who took the list from a Swiss bank, the HSBC, said that there is a involvement of political persons and that he filed the evidence to the prosecutor. At this point I would say that they deserve congratulations to those who took the initiative to go to France and look at the Falcian and it is worthwhile and proof of how rotten the Kingdom of Danimarky is, in this case, the fake - Romano, that for five years we have heard about the Lagard list, there has even been a trial in the special court with the indicted Minister for the Lagard list and no one has been found to go to look at the man who took the Lagard list, Falziani. And of course it's not just the Lagard list. There are lists of Liechtenstein, offshore companies and many others, which you have promised as government since January that you will bring to light. And I wish not only myself, but also the entire Greek people, who finally demand justice, a justice, but one that the five-year delay in going to Faltsiani proves that it is not independent. That is why we believe that the institutions of justice and the election of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Ice Bay should be shielded - consider this as a government - not by the political leadership, but by the Ice Bay plenary. We should also, as for the regional authorities, also apply to judiciary officials, not take a judge to make him a MP, to make him a minister and to set us up as we wish. And the noun was! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I shall refer to the measures provided for in the new agreement. It avoids almost all the members of the Ministerial Council calling it a memorandum. Not everyone. I've heard some people mention it as a memorandum. It's a memorial. In all cases, the fact that they are governed by European law does not affect the sad state of the assignment of national sovereignty. And it doesn't undo her for what? In addition to this new agreement, as you call the new Memorandum, there are the two previous ones, which you have not denounced, as you have said in the election that you will be doing. In his speech, the Prime Minister, on the first day, a speech of an hour and thirty minutes, did not mention the word'memorandum' once. He called her a new deal. I would like to comment on a few points in his speech and to table some information on the measures that the government is going to take with today's vote of confidence. The Prime Minister said at the end of the four-year period we will have a definitive exit from the crisis. This is impossible to achieve with the language of numbers, unless the debt is denounced - if it is denounced and not if it falls. Because it is a great amount, which is at least outside reality, to say that it can be satisfied within four years. He also said that we have ensured that the country escaped the danger of Grexit. I wish he was right. We will see that then, whether or not it is true and whether or not it is possible to apply what you are proposing and will apply as laws. He also spoke of a neoliberal plan to sell public property. Public property when sold does not matter if it is neoliberal, socialist, communist or centre-right. It's a country sale. Here, there are some points in the new agreement, as you call the Memorandum, which does not indicate that there is an appeal to the plan of the previous government. He also said in twenty months the liquidity would be restored. What does that mean? Does that mean for twenty months we're going to have capital control? Please take this into account and there is an answer, because the Greek people are struggling, they are financially hostage, they have their livelihood deposited to some banks and they cannot take it. So this is a very important matter. The Prime Minister also spoke of market access. Mr. Samaras said the same when he was Prime Minister. He took a break with a very big commission and an opening on the markets and then returned to the same one. It also talked about the need for bank recapitalisation. I would remind you that the previous recapitalisation of the banks took place in 2013 and cost the Greek people EUR 40 billion. How did the Greek state ensure these 40 billion Greek people? Getting banks' shares. And then what happened to those bank shares? Coffetti and card warfare. Of the 40 billion, how much has been left on the Financial Stability Fund of the Greek people? Just 2.5 billion. If, therefore, the banks are recapitalisation, the government must secure the money, the sweat of the Greek people, and not take stock of shares, which will end up at the "principle of capitalism", as the Marxists call the Stock Exchange, and there they become air and ashes. The Prime Minister also said that there will be some changes in the tax system which cause problems, such as the increase in VAT on the islands and the increase in the taxation of farmers. I insisted on 14 August that it is a disastrous measure, which eliminates the soul of the nation, the measure of overtaxation and the interruption of tax relief for farmers. I insist now. In fact, the New Democracy in the election period came out and said it would undo this, if it became a government, and find other equivalents. The Prime Minister said so as to suspend VAT on education with 23%. And that's right, he said, and I wish it wasn't a parole, it's an interruption. Because, you know, everyone we've been into the Greek university since the 1960s - all the others have had the opportunity to go to the Great Brother, to the United States, to some great universities and there to come to us as MPs and Prime Ministers or to the Ingletera, on the other hand, and to come from there to take such positions - it was not possible to get in if we were not attending schools. That's all since the '60s. And the schools are all about the Greek people, the poor Greek worker, the farmer, who wants to see his child in a better fate than his own. Once again he said that this will be considered in November and they will be sought equivalently. What are these equivalents at last? The treasure from Grandma's trunk, where do we find them and bring them? Equivalently it means that others will be taxed, others will suffer the damage. Do you think there's too much on this thing? He talked about a tax system. And it is strange to talk about a tax system at the same time as the tax system is changing, while it is prerequisite for a growth in the economy to have a stable tax system. He also said in his speech, as he also mentioned in the pre-election period of January 2015, about a public development bank. When will we see this bank, which will truly belong to the Greek nation and help develop the Greek people? Finally, it is a matter of immediate priority, to which the government must go. He even talked about buying without intermediaries. And at this point I would like to ask: what are you going to do about the food cartel? Let the Ministry of Trade go to the supermarket chains, make a check on the prices in Greek supermarkets and the prices in French, German and French supermarkets. The products themselves will find them cheaper. How can you, a left-wing government, allow such a hard cartel to exist at the expense of the majority of the Greek people at the most sensitive point in the household basket? It is an issue that you also need to consider. He spoke of health recruitment: a thousand percent in 2015 and two and a half thousand in 2016. That's right - and that's not enough. Health is in a dramatic state. There are patients' chambers in public hospitals with forty and fifty patients and a night shift with a nurse. I would not say that it is a third-world situation, because it is much worse than many third-world states. He talked about cracked insurance funds from the Stock Exchange and the PSI. That's right. What are you going to do with these, with the Stock Exchange and the PSI that destroyed the insurance funds that stole the Greek people? What's gonna happen? It'll be the next House of Revision. And he had the logic of talking today about Revision of the Constitution, when Revision of the Constitution could have taken place since 2013 and did not do so, while it was government a year and a half. And, finally, what about the law on the responsibility of the ministers? Extreme lawyers have said that there is no need to review the constitution and it can with an increased majority address this issue and stop this constant scandal. I come on a major issue, on the issue of illegal immigration, illegal immigration and refugees. There are definitely refugees. We're dealing with a wave. The Roman Empire also faced this. They were the famous barbarians, who were the Ostrogoths, the Besigoths, the movements of peoples completely. They would come with the sword in the hand, fighting. The others come as refugees, insurmountables, in their misery, but from wars which Greece has not caused and cannot be responsible for this. Before, however, I referred to this issue, as I spoke about the measures before, I would like to give some information. According to the government proposal, the advance tax payment for small and medium-sized enterprises and for free traders is increasing for the 2015 tax year from 55% to 75%. And since this year's liquidation, farmers' tax advance goes from 27.5% to 55%. In order to understand the situation where farmers are living, I will tell you that since October of the 66 euros that paid for the millimetre of oil the farmer will pay 200 euros and from 1 October 2016 he is equitable with the oil oil and goes 330 euros. From 66 euros he will pay 330 euros. The rural world is extinguished! You must not allow this to happen. As far as the interest rate is concerned, from 3% to 5% in the hundred instalments, you were right to vote against the wishes then, indeed, the lenders in the hundred instalments, but now changing the interest rate shows that the state does not keep its word. What do we have a state crook? Someone signed a contract for a hundred instalments at a 3% interest rate. You suddenly do it to him 5%? Also, something very important for the Greek archipelago, our Aegean, which needs to be left Greek: From 1-1-2017 to no island will apply a reduced VAT rate. You know, our islands are not just Mykonos and Santorini. There are also desert islands, where there really is a great need and where people keep Thermopylae there. Will you get them VAT 23%? Will you desert them even more? I would like here, in order not to abuse the time, which I have already spent, to refer to the famous fund. Therefore, a State-owned investment fund is set up in the position of the GOI. This new fund will be the guarantee for the new Memorandum and will be EUR 50 billion and its assets will be shares of state-owned companies, public infrastructure, real estate and mineral wealth revenues. According to the new programme, the Greek State is obliged to proceed to nine privatisations within the next three years, while, on the contrary, the previous government had agreed to sell twenty-three assets. Let's see what these assets are. These are the regional airports, the Greek, the "Asteras" Vouliagmenos, the Afantou area in Rhodes, the DESFAA, the Port Authority of Piraeus - the port of Piraeus -, the port of Thessaloniki, the "TRAINOSE" and the International Airport of Athens "Eleftherios Venizelos", which belongs to the Greek state by 55%. There is a colonial contract, which commits our state to no other airport within a hundred kilometres. A city of five million and it will only have an airport, which you think of assigning foreigners. [[The ending bell of the speech time of the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn is ringing at this point.]] I'll be out in two minutes. I would like to end by tabling a map from the International Organisation for Migration for the Minutes. This map shows the migrations that have taken place lately. In Greece, there were three hundred ninety - nine thousand, in Italy, thirty - one thousand, in Malta only a hundred, and in Spain only two thousand eight hundred nineteen. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The refugee problem has become a Greek problem and Dublin II murders the country. You must fight her. You must report her. It is not possible that the Greek people can no longer stand. And the United Nations forecast is that there will be more migration of time, perhaps over five hundred thousand. You propose some measures. Amongst these are the famous fund. Who's taking this fund? I have a report from the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA", which refers to a Turkish newspaper, which says: YENI SAFAK says that Turkish investors have started to focus on privatisation of 50 billion. in which Greece is going to take place. The eyes of the Turkish investors on the neighbor's side. In particular, airports and energy.’ I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] They want us to take the gas and oil, which Mr Meimarakis said earlier, that there might be. It cannot exist. It has been known and known for many years. The "National Dialogues" of Lucianos appears to be a cynical philosopher, Menipus, who, in order to deceive the Joshua and not go to the other world, but return alive to the earth, does not have the symbol.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u327	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u328	I'll be done. And when Harvey demands the blur, he says to him: “If you have a lobe than you have.” That's what the Greek people will tell you. He doesn't have what you're asking. It will also fail this plan and things will get worse. That is why the Golden Dawn will vote against the new Left memorandum, as the Central Right memorials voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u329	I would ask Mr. Constantine to come to Step. Immediately after that, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Toskas, will speak for eight minutes, and then the Presidents of the parties will speak. Here, Mr Constantine, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u330	Ladies and gentlemen, after the last seven months of the government's trial to give the Greek people a perspective, confronting the established mentality domestic interests, we are here to make use of the people's mandate, which says 'go ahead'. It says 'go' to social justice. It says 'go' to the recovery of the economy. It says 'go' to the substantial debt relief rather than to the one that impoverished the insurance funds in 2012 with the most famous PSI and we have these serious problems in the insurance funds now. Finally, he says "go" to the fight against corruption, to the dissolution of regiment mentalities which have been struggling for decades in the sweat of the Greeks. Faced with the failed neoliberal policy that embraces type-by-type practices, the government responds with a model of exploiting social structures, such as the protection of wages and work, the redistribution of tax burdens - it will finally put a seismic effect on taxes, on low levels - the use of technology and innovation in public administration, support for private initiatives - this cannot be done by New Democracy alone, as regards private initiatives and says that we do not accept them, because we accept everything - the protection of low social strata, which has only been looked at for so many years now by SYRIZA, the use of human resources in the reformist concept of productivity growth, and not by the concept of redundancy, which is being embraced at the moment. A great deal of government bet is the write-down of debt, which, according to the agreement, will follow after the first assessment, and that is what we all have to put our backs on. It is a national interest, of all the wings here, to put back on the debt, and I am very pleased that Mr Meymarakis said so in the midst, as long as we can see that. This impairment will be the essential concept of quantitative relaxation. The debt settlement will lead our country to long social and economic stability, which will trigger the creation of a favourable investment environment. It is not taxes, 23%, 13% or 12% to come to investment. We must have stable taxation and a stability for Greece's economy, regardless of taxes. As for the field of sport, gentlemen, the party's over. Those who love sport will be given a glorious field to prove it. On the contrary, there will be no allies in this government for those who are intercepted to trade and smash the money of Greek citizens. Cheap factories will be brought to justice, as it has already begun to happen. Are you willing, gentlemen, to do your self-criticism, to change your minds? The curse of the Greek people who have fallen into your heads will shake you at all, if you realize that with your practices you have brought us to the edge of the cliff, forty years of rule in this place, or will you remain in your corner and will you do what Mr Meimarakis said, political specs? The Greek people have been bored by vine-growers. It's time for action. This government is doomed to succeed and it will succeed. Put it right in your mind. The more the doors are open to society, the less mistakes we make and this is our big bet. With SYRIZA a sick man and the parliamentary team, a vigilant controller of the government machine should "we all put our backs on" and bend on the problems of the everyday life of ordinary citizens who lived on the sidelines due to oligarchal tendencies. For my part, away from every personal pursuit, I will remain a mere soldier in trying to bring back the smile to the lips of the Greeks alone. In critical times like the ones we live, let's put our patriometry aside. There are no less or more patriots. All the wings must help to raise our people. That is the moral duty of all of us in here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u331	The Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, responsible for civil protection, Mr Toskas, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a comment and then move on to the Programmatic Declarations. The political criticism is good, but it is good not to confuse yesterday with today. Let some who criticised the situation in Victoria Square, see how Viktoria Square is right now, to understand that we can combine the principle of security and the principle of freedom. We're trying at least. As for the sensitivities for workers in the Security Body, I would once again refer to the situation of maintenance of machinery and patrols and the stress of personnel without alteration, but let me not go further. As far as the Programmatic Declarations are concerned, and from the point of view of the specific government responsibility given to me by the Prime Minister, I shall briefly refer to the content of the reforms in the areas of civil security and society, the fight against crime, violence and corruption. Important steps were taken in the seven months of previous governance, such as the relaunch of the Neighbourhood Police institution, flexible pedestrian patrols in some areas of the Lecanopdi area, cooperation with social actors such as OkANA and the Child's Smile, support services such as the fight against trafficking in human beings, racist violence, etc. And all this will go ahead and then. But the first thing I want to assure the National Representation is that the value of human personality and equality of all against the law will be the subject of supreme respect from the Greek Police. Our government guarantees that democratic freedoms, individual, collective, social, trade and political rights will be respected in any form and their expression will be respected, without any derogation. We want security bodies for civil protection needs from emergency disasters and dangers to the effect of organised crime. We want a police that is surrounded by a prestigious, social consensus that inspires respect for and the disposition of cooperation. In this context, reorganisation will, among other things, be aimed at saving staff and technical means, for more effective action and prevention, along with reorientation of the philosophy of their action, so that extreme crime can actually be dealt with and put under control critical incidents and risk areas instead of a routine routine routine order. Under this perspective, Parliament should discuss a new draft law that will make necessary changes to Law 4249/2014, after being exposed to dialogue with both the Houses and the institutions. Perhaps we have too rich in personnel and central services and weak, poor backbone. We will defend the right of Greek citizens to freedom of expression and manifestation of freedom, but not to violence, because violence is driving freedom and threatening democracy and social consensus. And, of course, we do not intend to separate open events, gatherings, 'hospitable' marches and 'hospitable' to the government, nor to adopt corresponding discrimination. We will check the incidents of disproportionate and unjustified violence against the arrested. We must here inspire perceptions such as, for example, that it is inappropriate to wear out the entire penal arsenal of the Criminal Code to every child arrested. It will reduce the staff who provide security to persons politically and non-politically. If I say the number, some might also be surprised, but it's huge and unacceptable. They're over two thousand seven hundred. It cannot be tolerated that the state's function of security forces is being substituted by various organisations, demobilizing the bad instincts, the delayed attitudes, strengthening racism, xenophobia and intolerance. They make a big mistake those who aim at attracting forces to prevent and suppress the crime of the Greek police pretending to give hands of assistance. Nor can we close our eyes to the organized public violence directed not only against police forces but also against the property and legal property of Greek citizens and which is our duty to safeguard. There is a need for radical changes in the structure of the Hellenic Police in order to make the police more operational and efficient, and for security policy to reflect the positions of the government and to balance itself with the freedoms and protection of citizens' rights. Our aim is to upgrade the Police Academy with lessons such as giving solid knowledge, not only in police fields but also in fields of social, humanitarian and legal sciences. The upgrading of the police will, however, include the functioning of the agency to deal with arbitrary incidents, the treatment of any instance of corruption and racist behaviour that is contrary to the obligations and the role of the police. As far as the other sector, firefighting, there is also a need to restructure the services of this House after a study, in line with the current firefighting needs and specifications. Again here we need the change of Law 4249 so that we have a modern firehouse so that they can meet the needs and demands of the time. Priority issue is the upgrading of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection as a planning strategic instrument and the Fire Corps as an operational arm. The problem of the adequacy of air fire-fighting instruments is well known and guidance has already been given for the preparation of operational requirements for the reinforcement and renewal of the fleet. In the few days that we have in the Ministry, we decided to join the two Super Puma helicopters and the two smaller BKs in the Aerospace System, along with their other missions. As far as the National Information Service is concerned, we intend to be restructured so that it can face up to the current threats and risks. Our intention is to resolve the time problems soon so that we can deal with and manage the crises that we are facing. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that I will be constantly open to your thoughts and suggestions for the proper functioning and improvement of the area I am serving and I will repeat that security in a democracy must be balanced with freedoms. There is no dilemma between security and freedom for the Government. In a favoured state both authorities should be served at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u333	The Minister as a general was impeccable both in time and in everything! I would ask Mr. Theocharis to speak for three minutes to get rid of the tritology. Immediately after that, the President of the Democratic Alliance will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. In my speech yesterday I tried to explain the reasons which separate us from the political aiming, the lies, the political lies and the inability, as I described it, of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the reasons why we do not vote for the vote of confidence. I have also been accused by the parliamentary representative, Mr Manda, and also by the Minister for Latakalism. When I am accused of populism by SYRIZA, this is a title of honor for me. I accept that designation. But let's see just two points in three minutes, so I don't abuse time. Let us see if we really agree with SYRIZA's words and works. The Prime Minister spoke to us yesterday about the evaluation, that there will finally be a proper public assessment. Welcome. But what does Mr. Kotzias do now? It shall for the second time revoke our ambassador to the permanent Greek delegation in Brussels, Ms Alexandra Papadopoulou, earlier than her term of office, without any excuse. Insultingly, she suggests that she go to Montevideo, Kinshasa or Sarajevo, which has caused upsetting the entire Diplomatic Body, with the resignations of both Mr Spinelli and Mr Paradise. Is that the respect shown by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in public administration? These are actually the reasons why you are saying other things, but you do the reasons why you will fail. I shall refer to a second point, to see what really the successes of the previous government have brought these seven to eight months and to see how it will go ahead. Yesterday, Minister Alexiadis, in charge of tax evasion, tabled the successes for the Lagard list. In these months of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL we had the least integrated cases. Well, you're doing well, then. But I think the best thing is instead of anything else to read from Table I - II, which is the main sizes of the Greek economy, which shows for 2014, 2015, 2016, from the preliminary draft budget. It's your painting. You testified him. The economists will understand it. The rest of us, the Greek people will get a sense of where we're going and where you're taking us. Real GDP in 2014: 0.8%. In 2015: -2.3%. 2016: -1.3%. Private consumption: 1.3%, -1.6%, - 2.4%. Public consumption: 0.09%, -1.2%, -2.1%. Gross fixed capital formation: 2.7%, -16.5%, 4.5%. Exports: 9%, -9.5%, -1%. Imports: 7.4%, -3.6%, 0. GDP deflationist: -2.6%,-0.7%, 1.1%. Employment: 0.7%, - 1.6%, -1%. Unemployment rate: 24.6%, 25.4%, 25.8%. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. All this time - you told us both these days - you are concerned and your stress is focused on whether you will be left-handed. You're not. Stop worrying. You're not a left parentheses. Your first government was a left question mark. I'm afraid the next one will be left in silence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u335	The President of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR Mr Fofi Generations now has the floor. Mrs. Birthday, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u336	I'll make use of time from my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u337	We've counted the rest. A total of time has been added. Come on, let's do it twenty-two minutes. Be careful not to triple.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u338	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the Prime Minister talking about the President of France, François Holland, and the issue of debt relief. I'm glad Mr. Tsipras forgets his recent evil. Although it continues to forget with whom this alliance was built with the French socialists who supported our country at the most difficult time that Mr Tsipras, Mr SYRIZA - ANEL, has brought us. And today the government pretends to have discovered the wheel again. It seems that so long he has been studying only socialism of the Latin American type, otherwise he would know that for decades the European socialists and social democrats have been fighting for conservative and neoliberal policies. In this fight for social protection, we, PASOK, built structures, wrote history. Our aim was to finally lead to the European Union of social justice, and to achieve this, alliances are needed. But alliances that do not remain in the words will take place. Allegiances that will not abandon the euro vessel depending on the micro-party benefit, but will serve common European objectives, values and ideals. Allieds that promote competitiveness without further reductions in wages, but based on innovation, creativity. The alliances that promote progressive reforms on the basis of the threefold sustainable social state, a new type of development, wealth production - redistribution - a new balance, recovery of the possibility of attracting investment with a new, fair and efficient financial framework. Allieds that put social indicators at the level of economic indicators and for which unemployment, child poverty, are priority problems. With these alliances, we European socialists lay the foundations for social union to the fifth pillar of EMU. Have you heard any of this, Mr. Tsipras? Because we have not heard a single word in your programme statements. I can hear you talking about the progressive governance and the democratic world of the country. But this democratic world, Prime Minister, has nothing to do with the Left of elites, trabucisms, meetings in the squares of division. This country's democratic world never hardened its political opponents, no matter how hard the political confrontation was. It has never committed to acts of political violence. The Democratic Order was identified with national reconciliation, with unity and progress. He never separated citizens into memorial and antimony, to patriots or traitors. He has always treated them as Greek citizens. That is why, for me today, it is a particular honour and responsibility to lead the PASOK - DIMAR. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Today, more than ever, our country needs the progressive reform view that, with modesty but great dynamism at the same time, we express ourselves. Enough with fine words, proud references to so-called national dignity! Defiance is not the big words you call the next day. Prime Minister, the Greek people in their vote in elections gave you a second chance. But don't make a mistake. He gave you no forgiveness of sins. You don't start from the beginning. You have already spent the first few months, the first kilometres in governance, the miles particularly barren for both the country and the people, which have led to a deepening of the problems that already existed and the creation of huge problems that have not even existed. The second opportunity is accompanied by the command to turn the steering wheel elsewhere. 'Take it otherwise', as we say, because now is the time of the truth. Grexit is still in our yard. Our economy is at a particularly dangerous point and you are still afraid to deal with the problems. With Programming Declarations you tried to create a virtual reality. Generalities for development and social justice, smiling only for the difficult measures that are coming. The 2016 budget, however, with the tax storm and the cut in social costs, reveals the harsh truth. And you, Mr Tsipras, fortify behind vague, communication tricks and temporary solutions. Use the parallel program as your new fairy tale. You show that what you signed up for, and you are not in a position to implement, and the worst is that you are not in a position to improve them. So we're not going anywhere. I'm afraid you'll lead the country to a new dead end. I fear that in a few months you will get worse than what you led us in June. Prime Minister, to us in the Democratic Alliance, you will not find either willing reserves or naive accomplices. Make it clear. You have a responsibility, you have negotiated, you are judged today. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, after five years with the efforts and great sacrifices of the Greek people, in December 2014 Greece arrived at the source, but it did not drink water. Instead of getting out of the crisis, we entered a new memorandum. But let us see the real problems. Remission returns. The budget does not provide for growth in the first half of the year, as you said, Prime Minister. Unemployment will again rise. Citizens will be charged with tax measures and cuts of EUR 6.4 billion at the end of 2016. More than anyone will be paid by pensioners, as 1.8 billion concerns pensions. Social benefits are cut and you are talking to us about a national plan of social solidarity. The late debts of the state are increased to 52%, indicating the state as the new major battalion. That's the reality. The turn to the realism you are allegedly trying, Mr Tsipras, is not accompanied by any progressive political proposal. You cannot find any equivalent in order to protect farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, pensioners, the middle-class. Even 23% in education, you dealt with it with a communal trick, which will, of course, be revealed very soon, when the freeze passes and the time comes for the deforestation of the measures. And leave the jokes like the ones we heard from the Minister of Culture. That is why yesterday Mr Tsipras excluded from his priorities in negotiating farmers and pensioners. He left them in their luck. I would like to make our position clear once again. We support the national strategy that we first developed for exiting the crisis and for Greece's stay in Europe and in the Eurozone. We support every reform with a progressive figure and we ensure, on the basis of the four-fold democracy - solidarity - development - social cohesion, active and genuine support to every Greek citizen. We will, however, be faced with the most fundamental and socially painful issues in this memorandum, as well as with the election and, in particular, with alternatives, we have analysed. Our five major 'no' concerns free group redundancies in the private sector, hunger and indulgence pensions, farmers' exterior taxation, VAT 23% on education, insecurity of borrowers and businesses, particularly on the issue of auctioning first home. There are, however, other particularly important issues on which I wish to focus and first of all it is that of development. The development shock that the country needs will not come with the establishment not only of one but of ten public investors attracting investment. Because attraction of investments presupposes a positive climate for them, and the government is doing the opposite. It has clashed, for ideological or micro-party reasons, with anyone who has invested or attempted to invest in Greece, the ports, the airports, the Hellenic Republic, in Skouria in Halkidiki. How do the government expect a positive investment climate when, instead of supporting the critical productive sectors, it affects tourism, while at the same time increasing VAT on hotels, catering and abolishing the reduced rate on the islands? When energy investments are delayed and deferred due to the attitude of the Ministry responsible. Characteristic is the non-exhaustive conclusion of the tender for the exploitation of hydrocarbons. When the Ministry responsible for the primary sector dominate logic of the previous 30 years. When due to its policy and capital control the registrations of new businesses in GEMI retreated in July 2015 by 47.7% compared to the corresponding month of 2014. When yesterday Mr. Tsipras found nothing specific about the small and medium-sized Greek business and its problems. Greek entrepreneurship was not even heard in a speech that passed over an hour. When only EUR 892 million was absorbed between February and August 2015 compared with EUR 2.7 billion in the previous semester, when a competent Minister was a member of PASOK. When infrastructure is frozen for all 35 billion of the Structural Funds, which form the so-called 'Yunker package', there is no serious processing, no strategy for projects, actions and priorities. In other countries, they have already started to pay and we are looking awkward. Unfortunately, the government has no plans, no plans, no prospects for development in that country. That's the truth. The second point I want to make is the reform. The Prime Minister refers to the promotion of reforms in a number of critical areas. In a good word. How does it mean and implement these reforms, however, when instead of the deep intersection in the state, with values of democracy, decentralisation, transparency everywhere, in order to serve the citizen and the Greek company, we have continuous interventions to establish party subordinates? When we have been serving General Secretariats and agencies with oaths and returning to the public prosecutors of civil servants. Instead of the stable and fair tax system, we have continuous measures, burdening entrepreneurship: increase the rate of taxation from 26% to 28% and a great increase in tax payments for farmers and businesses. Instead of strengthening liquidity on the market, we have the capital controls on banks and the problems they cause. Instead of supporting education reform, the logic of the Balta bill continues to prevail. And a special point. We see from the leaks in the media an evolving concept of fiscal and insurance extermination of the middle class. I pointed this out in February and, unfortunately, it goes on. Enough of the ideoleptic obsessions! You cannot consider a family master as rich with an annual gross income of EUR 20,000 to EUR 25,000 in your tax plans. Nor as a privileged pensioner of EUR 1000 a month - main and subsidiary - who has therefore paid contributions for thirty-five years to the IKA in order to obtain a decent pension. Finally, you can understand that the extermination solutions you have in your mind - logically affecting the middle-class - will have a direct negative impact on the market, on employment and, finally, on the economy itself. The third point, to which I refer, concerns the policies for the socially weak. To tackle poverty - the main, in other words, the election slogan of SYRIZA - measures were taken in total only EUR 200 million, when only for the social dividend in 2014 had been allocated EUR 447 million for seven hundred thousand households. We now hope that the dogmatic refusal of the government's authorities will be definitively rejected and that the necessary institution of the guaranteed social income will be applied. An institution that our party has recommended has pilotally been implemented and should not forget here that all structures of solidarity and welfare have been established by our party. We must, however, point out that the government is comprehensively exposed and its policy is inadequate in these critical areas. How do they dare talk about social solidarity and sensitivity? How so comforted to lie, creating a virtual reality here, when forty thousand children were left out of the nursery stations and the city's creative employment centers with the government's responsibility, due to the delay and oligopoly? Three hundred and ninety-four of these children were disabled. Two hundred and fifty - six poverty - dealing structures that support a hundred twenty - thousand people are in danger of closing down by the end of the year. Hospitals are down. At primary level, they have only now been involved in Programmatics. We heard about the special education plan. Just as long as I tell you that special education schools don't have any teachers. Most of them are closed. The other schools have huge shortages of teaching staff that will not be covered by them by the end of the school year. The EUR 700,000,000 that creates opportunities for a hundred and fifty thousand unemployed have been frozen in the drawers of the relevant ministries. In the insurance sector, they have put their hands on the reserves of the insurance funds and on the AAA, and are now preparing for huge pension cuts. In the NSAs, they have committed themselves to reductions in early 2016. Social sensitivity and care for the weak must be proved in practice, not exhausted in hollow words without real reflection. The fourth point concerns corruption and transparency. On the issues of corruption and complexity, our position is quite clear. Transparency for everyone and everywhere! Legality for everyone and everything and everywhere, without any compromise or exception, but without any pretext for political purposes and impressions! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And we again make it clear that all the institutional changes that today facilitate the work of justice have been made by the PASOK governments between 2010 and 2012. Institutional changes, such as the economic prosecutor, the prosecutor of corruption, the acceleration of their own politicians, the lifting of the confidentiality of deposits, the "DENMARK", electronic prescribing, the electronic procurement system. I am tabling the list of eighteen items of institutional intervention, because many are trying to take care of them. Finally, the monopoly of sensitivity for transparency! [[At this point the President of the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR, Mr Fotini Generations, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And since we are discussing transparency and changes in the political system, I call on you now, Mr Tsipras, to agree on the first step - certainly not the only one - which does not require any constitutional changes, namely, the introduction of simple proportionality and the abolition of the bonus that divides and leads to fictitious correlations. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Not general references for dialogue on electoral law. If you're honest, come on. We're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u339	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u340	The fifth point concerns public debt. Welcome to our place! What else can we tell you, Mr. Tsipras? Welcome!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u341	I guess you've come to ours!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u342	Fortunately you have abandoned, Prime Minister, the majestics of deletion of most of the debt, an international conference and all the good things we have heard in previous years. The government is moving on the basis of the 2012 Eurogroup decision, which we have achieved, without having guaranteed anything more. We will contribute to the national effort to restructure, weaken and extend public debt, because in this way resources are released for growth and social cohesion. But, Mr Tsipras, do not forget that the very difficult evaluation of the programme takes precedence. And, by the way, let the Prime Minister immediately tell us what Mr Moscovisi is talking about when he says that more measures will be needed. The sixth point concerns refugees and immigration. We all know in this place that refugee needs humanity. None of us can remain indifferent to the loss of so many people and so many young children. We have lived all these months in the unacceptable frugality of the government - icons of shame both on the islands and on the border - and the service government has had to come in to get an emergency plan under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u343	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u344	In a problem that is not only Greek but also European, you cannot only ask for assistance from others, but you must also be trustworthy. At the moment when, at last, the conditions are mature, we have the opportunity in close cooperation with the European Union to finally change Dublin II. For years we have been asking for it and nobody has listened to us. Now is the time and this opportunity shouldn't be lost. Of course, we must not let the racist and extremists and the extremists of violence and self-righteousness take advantage of this case. Ladies and gentlemen, we fundamentally disagree with these measures and logic and do not support these deadlocked European policies. We are voting against the government's Programmatic Declarations. Each one of us is judged and, above all, is judged on his actions. We will continue by keeping open the fronts with the two contributors fuelled by electoral law. We'll cross between them. As the social and social democratic parties in Europe do in most countries over the years, as they have done. We have heard you, Mr Tsipras - and I shall conclude with that, Mr President - call on you to set up a progressive front against neoliberalism. We will not answer you the way you have responded to the similar calls for consultation and consensus, which we have addressed in very critical hours for our homeland, when this step has written a phrase that I think has stigmatized your political course with the memorable 'We will not let you out of your homes'. You know, Mr Tsipras, progressive is no one just because it states it. The progressive political force connects its government presence to genuinely progressive policies, changes and reforms. What's your reckoning, Prime Minister? Absolutely zero. A European Social Democrats are not considered to be one, because it is simply an opportunity to proclaim it, even if it suits him, for internal consumption purposes. The forces of social democracy in Europe, Mr Tsipras, have a clear political demarcation with the forces of obsolete, ideoleptic leftism, to which you belong and the extreme anti-European forces, with which you co-govern. It is not just because of historical tradition but because it is the left wing of Parliament's footsteps. Do you invite those on the right-wing fronts?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u345	Please, Madam President, conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u346	I'm done. You who, in fact, have loaded the responsibilities of the crisis on just and unjust grounds, have not found a single word to say all these years against the Government of New Democracy from 2004 to 2009! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You who for eight months fell in love with a far-right eviction of the political system and the night of the elections rushed to embrace them! That night you do not embrace an opportunityal government partner but an ideology. Right-wing la card can't be done, Mr. Tsipras! That's very simple. It can't be done! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] In short, Mr Tsipras, you do not legitimately share certificates or patriotism or progressiveity. Your moral advantage as an undefiled and undefiled defender of law burned, as, unfortunately, the dreams of millions of Greeks who believed you would lead them to the promised land. Hope didn't die, Mr. Tsipras. You just don't express it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, will another Member speak or are we done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u348	They will speak three - four MPs, even ten ministers. We're gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u349	Forty Ministers? It's never happened! Go twenty-five, twenty-eight...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u350	Forty-one. What can we do? Please, Mr. Tragakis. The President of Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, now has the floor for twenty-two minutes. I would ask for a greater consistency in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the Prime Minister and some of his ministers, I wondered if, apart from slogans and ideas, the winners of the elections have something else to tell us. And that's where I thought I'd talk like I was the election winner, forget about being in charge of a 4% movement and say things as if I were the winner. If you often think you're the winner while you're not, the doctors will tell you that you suffer from a crisis of greatness. But if you do it at times, maybe it's also an act of responsibility, that's, a sense of responsibility. So let's go talk like 4% was 40%. Smaller government, ladies and gentlemen. The river believes it and will try to do so. The country, at last, can be governed by a group of twenty-two determined people, with no state-in-the-art and few substitute ministers. At the same time, a drastic reduction in the Secretary-General and Special Secretaries from seventy-eight today to half. Remove party administrations. Responsibility for public bodies, businesses, hospitals, legal persons governed by public law to be procured and covered by the AACC. We have a great deal of room for economics in the'retire' of power. Abolition or merging of the four hundred and ninety legal persons of private law having less than twenty employees. Strengthen and develop the Single Procurement Authority for all government, so as to limit waste and corruption to ministries. The total cost of bureaucracy is estimated at 14 billion, i.e. about 7% of GDP. Expansion of the 'Guidelines' to all public decisions and the costs of the parties primarily and abolishing the Katorugalos provision which leaves room for questioning and distorting the 'Guidelines'. Withdrawal, the highest in sixty days, of the abused and corrupted not by political decisions, but by means of disciplinary boards responsible for the judiciary, but of monitoring the deadlines being the government's responsibility. Of course we have to think that in public they have a place for young children. So, for every two of you who have to leave, a young man up to thirty years of age should come. I should like to make a brief comment on taxation. Create a DU throughout the country for natural persons, employees and pensioners. Serve all through JEPs, telephone and internet. Exemption of small businesses with a turnover of up to EUR 30,000 from VAT. It is 40% of enterprises and has only 4% of the VAT revenues of the state. This is how we will have to release a thousand taxes, which will have to fall into the chase of tax evasion. Of course - I think we are all saying this - compulsory use of electronic invoicing for all companies with a turnover of more than EUR 30 000. Removal of real estate tax to facilitate frozen sales and block this freezing that has occurred to businesses and households. I think we need to move on to a bold measure that is the first residence without "before you". After we close all the holes in the tax evasion and no one can escape, we have to find and give just one chance to return the boogeyman money to the real economy, i.e. investing the money that is undeclared. Repatriation of non-taxable funds abroad with full taxation, but without other fines and self-commitment of the government that we will have a stable tax system, with changes that will only be made every November and a plan involving mayors and regional authorities by the end of the next financial year, so that we can transfer HICP to the regions and municipalities. Unemployment. I note, Prime Minister, that in your speech yesterday, you mentioned only once the term 'jobs', and you had only one mention where we were talking about employment programmes. You will know that nine hundred thousand jobs have been lost from 2008 to 2013. I think a government's primary task is to set the hundred thousand jobs a year. In seven years, if we manage to have 100 000 jobs per year, we will return to the unemployment of 12% rather than to this monstrous figure we have today. Immigration and not kicking around contracts, if we don't have anything important to change. The previous government let the months pass and in August, Mr Stathakis, said "yes" to become the militarisations. What were we stealing, if you didn't change a single term? The need at the moment is the new wealth. Energy, tourism, transport are large investment, agricultural production is timeless investment and youth entrepreneurship and education are new investments. Enterprises, particularly exporting enterprises, which have accepted a number of checks and have not been found to infringe the law, to be registered in a white register, namely to have a 'white Treasury' which will allow these undertakings to claim direct VAT reimbursement without further checks. Zero taxation for five years for new investments that will create more than a hundred jobs. Assisting taxation to new jobs. The aim by the end of the four-year period should be to reduce corporate taxation to 22%. That is something the Swedish Social Democratic Government has done too. We should also have replaced employers' contributions with tax on income and social VAT by the end of the four-year period. They have been discussing this for a long time in France. It's the safest way to hit the other scourge of the economy and society that black labor is. Of course, a radical change in the bankruptcy code, because there is no greater injustice and a greater waste for a society, than that creative people cannot be released from a business mistake, from a business failure. Unification of the insurance system. That's what we're all talking about. We should bear in mind that 25% of those retired in May 2015 were under fifty-five years old. The public was 36%. In other words, even today, after five years of austerity, the insurance system wastes many resources on favoured groups of a collapsed system. Minimum guaranteed income on the basis of the alternative proposal made by Potami when it was in Anti-Population and a minimum guaranteed income for six hundred thousand people who are truly poor and of course free access for all these people to a basic health service package covering visits to doctors and medicines. A guarantee of place in nurseries for all children aged two to five and meals in all schools for children, free of charge to poor children and with a small contribution of those who have the opportunity. Reorganise and reconstruct hospitals with mergers and overlapping footprints. The four-year objective must be - and this concerns health and investment - the Greek production of the medicine covering 50% of consumption and not 20% that it currently covers. For farmers some specific measures. Abolition of historical rights and distribution of single European aid on the basis of actual production, on the basis of acres and cultivation. Watch out. Of the two-and-a-half billion which are subsidies, in one or another form, Europe towards farmers, 800 million are being paid to landowners who are not primarily agricultural. They should be taxed at 50%, with a corresponding reduction in the number of farmers' professions. They're the equivalents we've been looking for at times. A zero tax on young farmers for the first three years and a tax on agricultural income in proportion to the rules applicable to employees. Another equivalent. This is a scaling up of insurance contributions and not horizontal increases in farmers. In other words, allow a farmer to choose a pension either basic or a full pension with higher contributions. Of course, strengthening new cooperatives, new producer groups according to Europe's standards. Those who join these new cooperatives, new groups of farmers, should be taxed at 13%. Of course, a specific policy for small islands and remote areas for the development of local livestock farming and the production of vegetable products for local consumption. Let us not lose a head start in the countryside. Justice. We'll have to make corrections to the Law of Friday. We can't get the releases done without a court judgement. It can't be assimilated to the rapist and the drug dealer, the one who owes money to the public. Mr. Paraskevi's law - you'll know it already counts two dead. And since I started from prisons, we should accept the proposal that the previous parliament has made for a new Penitentiary Code with its participation and with the presidency at times of Giannis Panousis and change the penitentiary system. Strengthen the institutions of rural prisons, especially for women and young people. "Brachiolaki" for prisoners not charged with serious offences and strengthening the institutions of rehab of detainees. And, of course, for justice, we should in every way complete the computer programs for the computerization of the courts and the electronic handling of documents, which started in 2012 and were not completed. The pending cases will be known to exceed one million in the criminal courts. And it's not the ratio of judges. We have thirty judges per 100 000, while in France and Italy they have far fewer - twelve, eleven per 100 000 inhabitants. Increasing, of course, arbitration and incentives to resolve disputes out-of-court disputes. We have to complete the procedures for the revision of the Code of Civil Procedure and go to a new Code of Criminal Procedure and a new code of criminality. Education. We will have to reduce - and we will have to reduce - until the beginning of next school year the secondment of teachers to other public bodies and parties by at least 50%. To extend the institution of pilot and experimental schools across Greece and, as a matter of priority, in the poorest regions. And, of course, without a problem, without any idea of moving towards a public, European and private partnership in university research. English-speaking departments where they can and where they want to attract foreign students and non-State universities in cooperation with local government until we change the Constitution. Corruption. There's a question. Mr. Nikoloudis started from the previous government to root out corruption. Where is he? Who's bothered? Why'd he get away? The control of 'whereabouts', ladies and gentlemen, has to leave Parliament - and the New Democracy has poorly brought him to Parliament - and return to the Authority for the control of the black money. And, of course, we must move on to all the necessary controls and put all the necessary obstacles, so that there are no triangular relations between media, politics and banks. The channels have to pay. We have to finish soon with the channel law. We don't need any new canals this time of SYRIZA. We need investors from old and young people who will respect the rules without exceptions, who will respect the laws and pay to the Greek public. Ladies and gentlemen, we must fight for the rights of many, the battle for the lost Memorandums, against the guilds and interests. Potami is here to dismantle the party state and defend the world of work. We need to reverse this model served by all the previous governments with few exceptions, the model of party state intervention. The memorials, if we think about it, that model was protected. Horizontal cuts for all and a strangle of the private economy, all to protect the sacred cow of the party state. And, of course, we must say that the memorandum did not all pay for it. We have tripled taxation to the weaker economics, you have tripled - to be precise - taxation over the last five years. The middle class has become redundant and, of course, youth unemployment has been launched. One out of two young people is unemployed. And here, beyond our responsibilities, beyond our own efforts, we must have the specific claims of the European Union and I am explaining. We need a European unemployment subsidy system in countries where unemployment is at an unacceptablely high level. They agree with the Socialist Group, they agree with Italy and we should jointly claim that unemployment, this cyclical, huge unemployment to be tackled is an obligation of the European Union. We also need a European approach to tax havens and high tax evasion. No country can do this alone. There must be a European policy. There isn't any, and we're late. We need to do this, namely to fight tax evasion throughout Europe, not to allow undeclared capital to move not only for growth purposes but mainly for social justice reasons. To make the European citizen feel that there are no exceptions to the treatment of tax-free people. I am not going to talk about immigration and refugee. I'm covered by Mr. Juncker. On 15 April, I remind you, from Mytilini, Potami submitted five specific proposals for immigration. The government didn't even come back to look. Mr Juncker, however, and the European institutions recently, with some delay, have taken decisions which are identical to the proposals and our own movement. They were proposals put forward by the Socialist Group, which the Liberals pushed. I should just like to mention one, which has been important since April, namely that the European Union, Turkey and Greece should make an effort to make an agreement to stop migration and refugee flows in the Turkish territories. Ladies and gentlemen, to go to ours, to ours, this House should vote for the next House to be revised. We all agree. I think we're going to fight about what we're going to have to review, but we're going to have to have this conversation. The next House should be a reviewer. Of course, we need to change the articles concerning the responsibility of the Members of Parliament for having a feeling for the citizen that the Minister himself and one citizen, if they are illegal, are dealt with. Of course this House will have to vote for a new electoral law. Breaking up the major districts so that MPs in the second Athens, in Athens, do not need the channels and that every canalarch does not have a small group of MPs, based on the appearances they have electiond on the channels. We have to abolish the 50-seat bonus. The first party, for us, must have a head start, depending on its percentage. We can find a solution. Because it is a very large package, we propose this: the setting up of a committee, not a party committee, a praiseworthy committee, with the participation of some personalities and from the parties, which will, in six months, draw up a new plan for the regeneration of the political system: a constitution, a Rules of Procedure of Parliament and an election law together with all three. Because we have to admit what society says, that this system is dead and costs too much and, above all, produces too many mistakes. We therefore call on the PASOK, SYRIZA and the New Democracy to take a concrete position. PASOK took a position, and it's positive. But let's say it clearly. Change of electoral law from this House with two hundred votes! That is what we can do, and that is what we can do. [[Applause from the river wing]] The aim for the Potami is to change the political system and not to become part of the old.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u352	Two hundred, i.e. without the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u353	The New Democracy will agree. Meimarakis made sense to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u354	You're welcome. Don't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u355	He'll agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u356	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u357	This time he'll agree. I suspect that in the previous conversation, because the New Democracy thought it would be a first party, wanted this bonus of fifty seats. Now I think it has landed in a more reasonable position, a more democratic position, that this 50-seat bonus is undemocratic. Everyone lands at some point but we say that from the outset, this bonus bonus is undemocratic. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Let me close. Our people must gain their confidence, which has been lost through constant dissent. The self - makers, the people who have created the country, the people who have fallen up, can change the depressing flow of political things. In order to land, however, because we are not winners - we are a party of 4% - I have to say this: The eleven Members of our movement seriously and decisively will do everything in order to salvage what is considered important in the lives of our citizens. You will allow me, Mr Tsipras, to tell you this: I would recommend that you tell your members that they have a more measured language in the face of the Potami. Some people, who this time are also on the Ministerial Council, Mr. Skourletis, have a career swamping the Potami as a product of interacting. Now that the cover's testifying to friendship, [[Applause from the river wing]] ...now that you are ruling and your decisions are witnessing the selective relationships with some people of the old system, now some of the SYRIZA are changing shyros and talking about the far right river. I don't know if you had the time, and if you had any responsibility, last night, a statement came out of your office that is a monument of irresponsibleness and ghellism. He's talking about the Potami that he's acting like a extreme right-wing party. I don't want to keep going, but I'm saying if you want to get in touch with the next period, be very careful in the language you use against your political opponents,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u358	Hang in there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u359	... because there may be frontal conflicts that justice will face and will not be for the benefit of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u360	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u361	I'll be done. Mr. Tsipras, you were making an invitation to us the day before yesterday. Let me answer you honestly. First, we don't trust you. You know that we have reason not to trust you, because many things we agreed on at the meeting of political leaders were not accepted by you after all. We do not agree with neoliberal policies, but we do not agree with the graphic approaches of your officials and yours personally. In the short term we will say 'yes'. We're determined. In a lot of the wrong, we'll be across from you. It's so simple for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, I too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u364	I will give Mr. Skourletis the floor for one minute and one more minute for Mr. Paradise. Please, however, because we do not have plenty of time, the ministers should be placed for very little. Mr. Flambury, as the Chief of Staff Representation mentioned, because he's coming to Stepma, will incorporate what he's going to say there. Here you go, Mr. Skourletis, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u365	And less, Mr President. I would like to say to Mr Theodorakis that, when he comes to Parliament, he must understand that he does not speak in the mirror and in himself. Nothing else!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, before Mr Theodorakis said that the SYRIZA Government and its members should take care of their words and measure them, when they are addressed to others, he said that the Law of Friday is already in charge of two murders. [[Noise from the river Wing]] This maliciousness now has traits of propaganda, for it is repeated that it is constantly catching, despite the fact that it is false. I just repeat, while respecting the time, that the innovations of the recent law concerned only specific categories of detainees, such as disabled, hosted foreigners, minors and over-aged people and not other categories of prisoners, such as those who have relapsed and committed murders or homicides after they were fired. I think that maliciousness is unspeakable and I don't need to speak any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u367	The speech is made by the Secretary and President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas for twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u368	With a little tolerance. Thank you, Mr President. From the step of the House, we want to address the people and stress that there can and must be a radical change of course, that there is a path of development that can satisfy modern social needs, that the path that has been followed so far only leads us to constant sacrifices. It is not a one-way road, as all other political forces are presenting it. Much more, Prime Minister, you have no right to interpret the 36% that the Greek people gave you in the recent elections, as the adoption of your anti-popular policies, the tough measures you bring. As far as we're concerned, even though the other powers are not entitled to criticise a party that took a majority? Opportunal or more permanent, it doesn't matter. What does "the people have spoken" mean? Do you know how many parties the people made them celebriously and at much higher rates than yours and finally threw them in the Tartara to the extinction? When you were opposition to this 4% -5%, like other parties today, you criticised the respective parties 40%, 45%, 48% and quite rightly. How far from today do you not tolerate it and answer from high 'the people have spoken and recognized'? Because you're the ruler now? Because you're sitting in the ministerial and prime chairs? It will not be far away, we tell you, the time when the Greek people will draw conclusions on how they use their vote every time. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Mr Tsipras for the need to differentiate his party from his fundamental allies in voting for the memorandum, namely the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami, brought back the falsified anti-neo-liberal dividing line, since he can no longer support the also falsified anti-immemorandum that he supported until January 1915 to the last of July, when he entered the club of the rest of the yesmen. The Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations again promise a development of social equality and prosperity, as he said, which will allegedly benefit the big capital and also our people. Mr Tsipras reiterates, in other words, the well-known millennial tools and instruments that will ensure this objective, attract investment, focusing on innovation, on the quality of goods produced, on the utilization of public investments and large Community packages, the restructuring of public debt, and the acceleration of delayed restructuring. In fact, it repeats all that brought us to an even more barbaric third memorial, in prerequisites, in new hard measures, regardless of how they are baptized each time. If we look at the Minutes of the House, we will find almost identical speeches and promises in programming statements from all previous Prime Ministers, regardless of which party they belonged to, or whether they were in government-shaped one-party government or in government-shaped form of willing cooperation. You will find relatively easy to find that all that is served as fresh ideas and supposedly a new model of productive reconstruction, are copies of the same old ideas of an unexistent, human capitalism. Just remember how much euros have been channelled into the country with the second and third Community Support Frameworks, with the ESDP, with innovation aid programmes. With the third Community Framework, over 45 billion euros were channelled, with the NSRF 2007-2013 over 40 billion euros. Many billions of euros have been allocated through these programmes to boost innovation, productivity. However, what did our people finally gain through this funding? Only the domestic and foreign groups came out. As long as we are on this road, public and private employees, the self-employed - EBRD, farmers will also have new losses in the phase of the crisis, to regain the profits of large groups, and in the phase of any recovery, in order to increase profits and improve their competitiveness. There is no management policy and a model of capitalist development that can lead to capitalism without exploitation, poverty, unemployment. Modern technology, which allows for reducing the time necessary for the production of goods, is exploited by capital at the expense of workers, the working class. On the one hand we have the great army of the unemployed and on the other hand the exploitation, intensification of those who work. The anti-population attack to support capital gains is not only about Greece but all the Member States of the European Union and the United States of America either have a memorandum or have a national currency. That is why the Europe 2020 strategy is being implemented throughout Europe. What this path and the policy of all the previous governments specifically drives us well. Unemployed people have exceeded one and a half million, while at younger ages almost one to two he can't find a job. People's income has fallen by nearly 25%, and if we calculate the increase in taxes and the evacuation of living costs, workers have lost half of their standard of living. It is a challenge for Mr Tsipras to present as an achievement of the ruling Left that he will ensure a dish of food to some families who really live in extreme poverty, while at the time of the crisis 140 billion euros were invested abroad by the local ruling class. Even more challenging is you use the victims of extreme poverty to escalate, Mr Tsipras, the attack on the large mass of the rest of the employees and self-employed. On the one hand, the state will guarantee a hunger allowance within this national system of social solidarity and, on the other, it will destroy all the insurance rights left for the majority of pensioners. It is also a challenge to show, as a response to unemployment, the eight-month work contracts with far-reaching conditions, so that the unemployed can be continuously recycled. We already know very well what is behind beautiful lectures on specific unemployment programmes. All other parties have voted and accepted the position of the third memorandum that Greece will design and implement a wide range of reforms on the labour market, on the commodity market, in full compliance with the requirements of the Troika, namely the abolition of even more conquests and rights for the people. And all this at a time when there is a chance that a new international synchronised crisis will emerge on the basis of signs and small patterns in the United States of America and a slowdown in growth in China and the recession in Japan, the increase in unequal growth within the European Union, the Eurozone. Whatever we are told these three days in the House, the fact is undeniable. They have signed that the New Medium-term Financial Strategy Programme 2016-2019 will contain a large and reliable set of parametric measures and structural reforms. It is well known that the new memorandum of course provides for a new tax raid on the people. ENVIRONMENT is permanently being mobilised, the solidarity levy is growing considerably and it becomes permanent. Self-employed people are taxed from the first euro, farmers are at the forefront of a real tax storm, with a fall in direct taxation, VAT on agricultural supplies, a tax-free abolition. Of course, a good thing about what the employee lost in previous years. A declared objective is to increase the primary surpluses that will reach 3.5% of GDP in 2018 and remain there to find funding resources for the monopolistic groups. And of course, in order to do this, there is a need for an additional increase in taxes, an additional reduction in government spending, totalling 8 billion. All that is certain of the agreement signed by SYRIZA, with the help of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami, is that the surpluses of 3.5% of GDP over the entire repayment period will again be paid by the Greek people with new, continuous, unbearable measures. What conflict, then, with the old regime and economic oligarchy are you talking about, Mr Tsipras? Are you going to increase shipowners' tax? Are you going to change the current unacceptable regime with which groups do not even contribute 1/10 of total tax revenue? With the cloak of combating tax evasion, tax is being prepared on the grassroots layers that are not in the state of absolute poverty. The large capital will not be taxed as the framework for the legal avoidance of groups remains active. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main arguments put forward by the government is that for the first time it opens up the issue of the write-down of public debt. But the truth lies in the completely opposite direction. They promised that there would be no haircut, i.e. a reduction in debt, and that the Greek Government is committed to repaying it. They are now proposing a disarmament of credit commitments in more years, which will be accompanied by a new anti-popular attack like the PSI haircut. The acceleration of the unpopular restructuring is called for by your allies, by the International Monetary Fund and by the United States, which you have certainly not stopped thanking in recent years. The people will continue to pay a debt which they did not create and from which they did not have the advantage they had. Whatever improvement there is in the terms of repayment of debt, this will be used to support the state activity of some groups, such as Mr Tsipras himself confessed in his speech. Pensioners will see new even greater reductions of over 2 billion euro by 2016. Apart from increasing the retirement limits through the penalisation formula of any early retirement, increases in pension bookings, new additional measures such as the abolition of the CSR and the zero deficit clause are being prepared. Whatever it is called these days, or the main representatives of the government, of the other parties, of their rabbits, our people can hear them. He'll have to hear them. Because the aim of the changes in insurance, which is the central axis of the general policy of the European Union and of capital - and that is why it is set as a key deliverable under the agreement - is to link the benefits between contributions and benefits more closely, namely, transferring the burden of insurance to workers' backs on the line of reciprocity to social security. Apart from this, SYRIZA naturally abandons its many previous privatization commitments. The crafts are also the demolition of the remaining trade union rights, and the path to the consistent pursuit of capital for the liberation of collective redundancies is also opening. The European Union's best practices are invoked precisely to mask these new measures, covering that the rights of workers are systematically degraded throughout the European Union. To hide this grim reality, co-pilots and other anti-population forces, who are objectively linked to the government, are all talking about the infamous equivalent measures, supposedly renegotiating the agreement, so that they can change some of the anti-population - allegedly glossy - to become polemic. They claim, for example, that with their own parallel programme each will make things better for the people. They focus on this in some parts of the world, seeking to accept the path that leads to poverty and bankruptcy as a one-way path. But the truth is not hidden. With the two previous memorials, the popular layers lost about 40% -50% of their standard of living. The new "Tsipras Memorandum" comes to add new burdens to wages, pensions, employment relationships, taxes, life costs, which total at least 20%. They call on the people to accept the level of sacrifice and simply to choose the pocket they will take from them or the special group that will be subject to them, trying to separate the workers from each other. A characteristic example is VAT in private schools, in schools. SYRIZA and New Democracy accept that the people will pay the measure and show the false question as a dilemma: 'In what other pockets do you want to carry the cost'? The JRC enters and calls on the people to organize their struggle, to organise their counter-response. The JRC is the force that can lead to the really different, higher type of organisation of the society economy. When the people really decide to take luck in their hands, nothing can stop him. The socialization we say, with our "woody" language, the concentrated means of production, factories, infrastructure, land, will unleash the country's enormous productive potential, its rich energy sources, its mineral wealth. It will be important for the domestic industry, for example, to contribute to reducing the demand for imported medicines, since the orientation of production is not to be based on the capitalist profit criterion. Accordingly, the milk-milk industry will be guided by a criterion and with priority for meeting the basic needs of our country and our people. The metal industry will proceed with the processing of raw materials, such as the production of stainless steel. The Community's commitments to Greek production from ship building until livestock production will be abolished. The release of Greece from NATO, from the European Union, will enable mutual relations to be established, benefiting international agreements with other countries. The reality is wrong thinking about it or dealing with it statically. The creation of such a positive situation for the people within Greece, but with a course of overthrowing the power of the monopolistic groups, will objectively go hand in hand with major changes in the correlation of power in the wider region. People's power, real people's power, will in any case exploit to the full the contradictions between the imperialist centres to cover the necessary imports for domestic production, where necessary. It is the only way to prevent the country's dangerous participation in military projects by NATO, the United States and the European Union, which are at the expense of the people. It's the only way, so we don't constantly get involved in the tank of the imperialists fighting each other wildly about how they'll share the streets of oil, gas. There are roads which, as we all know in this Chamber and outside it, always lead to bloody wars and conflicts. On foreign and defence policy issues, the Prime Minister did not make a speech in his central speech the other day. We don't tell him to do analysis, of course. I imagine the Minister of Foreign Affairs will do that. But, in short, he could give the basic mark of his government. It did not, we believe, because the exchanges it gave and the games it played with the Euro-Atlantic allies, with the United States of America, NATO other imperialist centres are dangerous for both the sovereign rights of our country and our people and for Greece's deeper involvement in new dangerous conflicts and competitions. You have a great responsibility to enable parties that have been in power and have led us to this point to be able to demagogue today because of your policy, which is practically influencing them. The JRC is today the only guarantee for a genuine, popular opposition within and outside Parliament, with a line of conflict with the real opponent of our people's workers, which is the European Union, capital and their power. Proposals for laws, amendments, any form available in this House will make use of it, so that we can claim just measures to relieve the people, the young people. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, we are not giving any tolerance to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, we are not giving a vote of confidence. We also call on the people's layers of our country not to give any more tolerance. Time of tolerance has passed. It has already been eight months, and let the rulers not be bragged in that three times in eight months the people gave them the majority. The people know that at least the two previous ones were exploited by the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état to interpret how they wanted their election results by changing their election commitments and the will of our people. Inside the rotting of this urban political system of capitalism, the electoral battles, the various referendums usually take place not to express the real people's will but to manipulate the people, to fall into the trap of professed democracy, to serve not people's interests but small and medium-sized games, to manage their contradictions, if you like, the deadlocks created by their anti-grass policy, which always dresses up on the mask of new ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, do not bore that bell. The same is true of the various things that are being said about the fight against corruption, of the interlocutory and goes on to say that very soon air will prove to be unfavourable, we believe, such as all the relevant and corresponding to this day, of course, except for some who have been lost - to say so - for the political system, which gives them the same system, because of course, they have served in a variety of ways, on the appetites of others, of new jackals, who are rushing to eat again, in turn by sucking the blood of the people again. And it is a people who are late in the hospitals of the major shortages, staff shortages, in infrastructure, in materials, of a people who are paying from the time their child is born, to learn their child five letters to get after the degree, which is the policy of all of your people in unemployment and hostility, of a people who pay twice and three times, and their own exploitation and wave of refugee flows of immigration from other people, who unravel them from their homes and who send them to our country your own allies - Americans, Russians, Germans, Turks and do not share - with their interventions and all the known people, of a people whose children with special needs cannot go to school, because they are closed up most of their special education schools, lack of staff, the problem of their transport is not solved. Hundreds of thousands of families are suffering. I saw their representatives a while ago in this House. That is why we are in the process - Mrs Vageias, which you are constantly talking about - of 'one thief, two thief, three and his bad day'. One January, second July, third September. And that third won't pass like that. Organized people will claim their right. You must feel the pressure of the working folk movement from now on. Already, on October 28th, large rallys are being prepared throughout the country. There is a totalitarian strike in early November, as you have been informed, and all of them will be ready for extraordinary hard-rooted bills that you will bring to this House. Do not think, however, about resorting, like your predecessors, to provocatives, to violence, to intimidation, to slandering the struggles and those that are leading them. The whip and carrot do not tolerate the working class, the people, the youth. You know that very well. Sooner or later, it's the people who'll put the real seal on the developments. He will test his powers, because until now he has not done so, even though he has only thrown a few shots up to now. The real race of the two worlds, at all levels, first of all in ideological, political, economic, is ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. The floor will be taken by Mr Leventis, President of the Centro Association, for seven minutes. It's the rest of the seventeen minutes of yesterday's first-hand speech, by all means, because they're all up to twenty-four minutes from what you've seen. Mr Kammens, President of the ANLEs, will not speak because he spoke yesterday as Minister. So Mr. Leventis closes the circle in relation to the parties' presidents. Then we have eleven Ministers and Deputy Ministers and three MPs, who will be able to speak before the Prime Minister takes the step up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u370	How long have I got, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u371	Seven minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u372	Because everyone is over two to three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u373	They are along with what others have stolen. We've added them. Don't blame us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u374	We said yesterday a number of things, absent from the Prime Minister, about how I imagined the House for thirty years I was fighting and how I found it. You know, I've learned my whole life to talk to audiences, which weren't so static. I mean, I see here the Rightist applauds the Right, the Left One, the hoods of theirs, and no one applauds anything good, if called by another. No one applauds anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u375	We don't applaud.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u376	Please calm down for the JRC. You're the most naughty, if you're JRC, I don't know. Why did you call me "crowd" yesterday? It will seem who the 'crowd' is. With Mitsotakis, we know who made a government. It will look like the "crowd" who it is. History will show who the "crowd" is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u377	In addition, you are an anti-communist!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u378	It'll be history. Don't be in a hurry. I was used to speaking at audiences which can also embrace another view. Here are audiences seated, packed, not moving. Whatever is said, everyone applauds their Chief. It's a special situation. I'll get used to it. I sent you, Prime Minister, a letter - I think you received it, because I sent it to Koumoundouros - which has nine points of the Central Association, which if they were accepted by you, without asking for a ministry or any position or anything, we would vote for a vote of confidence in the government. I do not know whether a party in this House has been offered another time to vote without asking for anything. I have not received an answer, so you realise that the vote will be negative today. Because I have not received an answer either if you agree to one, three or five. You ignored me, to say it like that. But in ignoring me, you have not taken advantage of a great opportunity for some diseases that exist in the political system for decades to eradicate them. And so your government continues to carry on its pathogens. Let me give you an example. Each Member has five advisers. So you have a hundred and forty-five seats for five, a number comes out. I think the party has two more. Forgive me if I say wrong. It's over a thousand SYRIZA consultants. Wrong? To be nine hundred eighty? Is that a political system? Is that a democratic cost? The people know this, that every Member gets a wage of EUR 7 000 - I think that he comes at EUR 7,500 in total - and that he also has five advisors? How much should we put in a consultant's payroll with his insurance? The state pays it. Isn't the House paying for it? So every Member of Parliament costs almost 18,000 to 20,000 months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u379	Don't react, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u380	I'm sorry, you guys interrupted me and said 11,000 euros, do you know that there are people eating from garbage cans? And you're on the left? Another matter. The Left has always been the party of mere analogy. And you said the other day that we would also open up a debate on a new electoral law. You have not even dared to say the word'simply proportionate'. And you know that you have formed a government with a gift of fifty seats. As Karamanlis formed, as right politicians formed, in the same way you formed a government. You also know that it is 45% of the abstention of these elections. This 45% abstention means that it voted 55%. So 36% SYRIZA and 3.5% ANELs mean that your percentage in the people is 22%, Mr. Tsipras. In the hundreds of Greeks you represent the twenty - two, if you want us to respect the numbers. Of course the previous ones did. You're not doing anything new. You don't commit a new crime. This crime is all the time in this place. For five years you have said that you have another solution. You'd rip memoirs, erase debts, unify the South against the North. And youth believed - youth, I am thinking mainly of myself, because the older people have eaten our lives - that there is a politician who suggests something else. And on one night in July - I think 12th of July - you went to overthrow it all and fearless not to leave the euro, you made a memorandum. An apology didn't you have to give the youth? The youth who had believed in you is not entitled to an apology, which for five years believed in something you rained down and destroyed in one night? You were under pressure, blackmail, I take it all. But the ones who believed in you, aren't they entitled to an apology? Mr Meimarakis now stops tolerance to the government, nor will any tax laws be passed on. That's how it destroys the precedent. Before the elections, he had shown a consensus and I thought that the New Democracy was reasoned, he became a European party. I note that she is now coming back to her own complex. In other words, it was instantly tolerant and seriousness and returned to the right, the unrepentant, which says "no" to everything. I expect to see the course of things in this House, Prime Minister, and I would really be happy to disprove my fears and do a good job. At this point I cannot give you a vote because you have not answered me. You can understand that I cannot, for the reasons that young people have voted for me. Because youth voted for me, you know, Prime Minister. You should know that the last four days have played a big game against the Centro Association and showed it 2.5% of the polls, so we dropped to 3.5%. You did something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Leventis, please finish because your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u382	I'll say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u383	But you did yesterday in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u384	Mr. Voutsi, I will give my opinion. While you are 12 units a month before the elections and seven points at the end, you have accepted both parties that you are equal, to eliminate the smaller ones. You didn't do that? I had instant knowledge from the companies that you were ahead of seven units, and you were even men, to exterminate the rest of the parties, polarizing, and ignoring it, are you learning it now? Anyway, don't mess up the night. Otherwise I'd waited for the House, but even if I found it, I'd be able to get it up to 23.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u385	Be well. MEP George Koumoutsakos speaks for five minutes, and then Mr Spirtzis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President. This country has foreign policy, has serious national issues, is it faced with major geostrategic challenges, does it have concerns about national security and defence? What part of the map is it, really? Is it near Luxembourg or is it the most unstable and fragile region on the planet in the Eastern Mediterranean? Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Minister, do not surprise you for these questions, but to surprise you very seriously that the Prime Minister of this country, not another, in a speech on Programmatic Declarations of almost two hours, dealt with foreign policy in two paragraphs, one hundred and fourteen words. I understand that at these difficult times and times, interest is focused on the economy. This does not, however, justify the total absence of foreign policy by parliamentary action and the parliamentary obligations of this government. Greece cannot afford not to discuss, not to worry, not to go into foreign policy issues. After all, foreign policy is now linked to the economy. And don't fall into the trap of an artificial separation of the two.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Kumucaco, excuse me. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, be quiet. Carry on, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. In your previous government mandate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, beyond his initial presence in Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, has not once informed Parliament of the handling of key foreign policy issues in the country. He did the same and the Prime Minister continues to do the same. Why is this silence so far, why is this discourse, because this undemocratic refusal to discuss the major challenges faced by Greece in the crisis? Citizens have the right to know. In democracies, governments are speaking publicly about foreign policy. When this is not the case, suspicions and suspicions about authoritarianity, secret diplomacy, for opaque diplomacy are being provoked. You must speak in public, let us know what you believe, what you plan, what you propose. With regard to relations with Turkey, which, in addition to all others, have a strong national security and defence dimension for Greece, where are these relations? On what basis are you discussing in the context of the Greek-Turkish dialogue? Do you consider that they render confidence-building measures? What about the ongoing violations and violations? Are you concerned about the frenzy in strengthening Turkey's strategic and military spending and capabilities? And a very serious question for Turkey. What have you done and what are you doing to ensure that Turkey fully implements its institutional obligations to deal with the refugee issue? What have you discussed this with the Turkish Prime Minister in New York? What did he say? How do you respond to proposals and thoughts about enhanced Greek-Turkish cooperation, under the supervision of third parties, please, to deal with the refugee problem in areas that are the country's maritime borders, that is, in areas which Turkey is constantly questioning? Did you really know that there are Greek sea borders? What exactly do you have in mind to do with the issue of the name of Skopje? Does the position ‘Additional generic name’ apply? Is the position that without a solution the accession process cannot proceed with the European Union and NATO? And do not tell me that these are self-evident, because in foreign policy the self-evident ones must be said and there must be official, public commitments for fundamental foreign policy positions. Will you react if the Gruevski government and its people are causing and poisoning the atmosphere of negotiation? So far we have seen embarrassment and appeal. Judging by the provocative presence of Gruevski in the UN, where he exclaimed: "We are Macedonians", the recent confidence-building measures you signed in June have already faded to an extinction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u389	Two not. You have a minute, Mr. Kumucako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u390	In Cyprus, what is the assessment of developments? What is the evaluation of developments in the bi-communal dialogue? The right position that there is no need for guarantees and guarantee powers is true? Does the serious development concern you that a water pipeline has been launched and built from Turkey, from Mersini to Cyprus, to Kyrenia? Do you agree that this development strengthens the negotiating position of the Turkish Cypriot side? How do you deal with Albanian nationalism? And in Thrace are you happy with the situation? If so, tell us why. If not, what are you thinking of doing? And in energy diplomacy, how do you go? Because what is heard and written is only of serious concern. These are the crucial and vital questions on fundamental foreign policy issues and we call for answers to serious, valid, official, binding. Because of the economic crisis - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - the great challenge for the country's foreign policy is that, with limited means, we must respond to the same strategic objectives. We therefore need to make new readings, new visas, to find new solutions, to cover this gap between instruments and objectives. We have created a framework. For example, in the tripartite cooperation of Greece - Cyprus - Egypt and Greece - Cyprus - Israel. You continue it to some extent but I wonder why, in the UN, in the United States, in New York, it became only the tripartite Greece - Cyprus - Egypt, not Greece - Cyprus - Israel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u391	Please, you've been closed, Mr. Kumucako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u392	I'm done. I shall refer to the refugee, and I shall close with that. Greece is facing a European problem and Europe is facing an international problem. I urge you to work harder for the internationalisation of the refugee and I also put forward a proposal, because the international community must assume its responsibilities for the situation that has triggered the aggression wave in recent years. What we call'several possibilities' in the international community needs is a division of responsibility. So I suggest you take the initiative...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u393	You're closed, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u394	I'll be right back. So I suggest that you take an initiative to organise an international donor conference to deal with the refugee problem, an international conference that can be held in Greece because of the country's position. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, this is how we oppose it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u396	When it comes to criticising and putting forward proposals, when we consider that this will help the country. Because we're the new one, and you're the old one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u397	We were tolerant, because you were the last voice of Officer Opposition. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis. The ministers have the floor for ten minutes and the Deputys for eight. I would ask that the time be observed so that we do not go beyond the 12th night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u398	Ladies and gentlemen, historically all the economic crises around the world have been overcome by a large programme of infrastructure, by the implementation of public and private projects, which can, as a work-intensive activity to hit high unemployment, give immediate new revenue to the state, feed the looted insurance system, move the crafts and industries, answer the question 'where we will find equivalent to the hard measures imposed on the Greek people and the country;' to allow social policies that redistribute wealth. All this could be implemented immediately, if we did not have the heavy legacy of yesterday, a set scene to keep the country committed for many years, without planning, without mature projects, with a commitment of resources, with promises from all over the country, multiples of the money of the new financial framework and with an opaque banking system that gives guarantees, funding to anyone who wants, with total opaqueness. For decades the project production system, transport and telecommunications have been the main pillar of service of interests and opaqueness and the feedback sector of a peculiar oligarchy. Yesterday and today we heard criticism from the parties of old-fashioned communism, especially from the New Democracy, of how we perceive growth. Let's get back to you. It is clear that we do not understand growth as you do. The dividing lines are deep and unsurpassed. We're not the same and we're never gonna be the same. This is a commitment from all of us. We do not understand growth by over 80% of the projects in six companies. We do not understand the opening up of professions and the closure of markets to a few. We have no dogmatism that the crisis will be overcome by private investment alone. We don't mean private investment in the sale of public property. We do not understand growth without production, without the defence of public interest and the environment. We do not mean deregulation of the working framework, abolition of collective agreements and liberalisation of collective redundancies as development reforms. We don't mean redundancies as reforms. We don't understand headhunters as auditors. Truth, how developmental is it that there are no drivers and craftsmen and therefore freight trains on the railroad and on the fixed track because you fired them? How developmental is it that there are no air traffic controllers and that we lose millions of delays? We don't mean the way you're talking about extroversion. The only outward action you've ever implemented was the hundreds of thousands of scientists who have resurrected. You didn't even have the sensitivity to see where the young people of the country are going, in which countries, in which areas, under which conditions. We are listening throughout the election period - and today - to the fact that we are stuck in the works. What plays? The subway of Thessaloniki? "MOREA"? The four plays of the paranoid? The vertical axes of Egnatia? It's an endless list. You need to remember how many years you've had on your hands. Do you mean the sea of Thessaloniki, which the Greek State must give to clauses more than it would have given if the project were done? Or do you mean the four highways you reviewed two years ago? No one has stopped but few tolls of the tolls you have committed both the country and the Greek citizens. I would ask you all to indicate a line, a word of the motorway conventions with which you have guaranteed the public interest. Please tell us if one of these projects is completed by December, as planned in the false timetables. Or did you commit the new NSRF to the same projects and the same contractors? All are works by the New Democracy and have its identity, its companions and its governments. You have built a sick, state-owned private sector and a non-productive public sector. You hit the small and medium-sized companies, the middle-class of the country. You have rebuild jobs, public social structures and institutions. On the other hand, you have left all these years - the years of poverty - a few people continue to enrich themselves with works of vague budgets and undetermined timetables. We do not forget our commitments to the Greek people. We don't break our promises. We are not changing our visions, positions and political direction. We will do everything and at the end of the four-year period we will have a healthy economy for our people, another country in public works, transport and telecommunications. As you know, for every 100 euros public infrastructures EUR 50-55 are entering public funds, directly facing unemployment. By exploiting all the financial instruments, we will find revenues that we will use to suspend the hard measures imposed on the country. To win this bet, we will move on to the following axes at the same time. The first axis is the creation of strategic planning structures for public infrastructures by setting up a corresponding directorate, which has not been deliberately in place for decades. A strategic planning that does not plan projects but serves to restructure the country. In our country, no works are carried out usefully for the Greek people, but works maturely for interests. I listened to you before you said about the farmers' tax. So many decades throughout northern Greece, throughout island Greece, it is not planned to introduce a meter for cheap energy, for the use of geothermality, which will give our farmers a competitive advantage. This is the main for our farmers. That's our difference. We support healthy productive forces and you are the transceivers. Historically you do this. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Secondly, there are institutional and procedural changes and accelerating the implementation of public infrastructure projects. As you know, with the current project production framework, a road construction project takes at least nine years from the moment of a decision to implement it until its auction. For an environmental project, a minimum of twelve years is needed, and for the licensing of an industry it takes six to seven years. Obviously, we cannot go through these procedures at another time, we cannot deal with the crisis. I would like to stress, however, that for us the simplification of procedures does not mean abolishing public control but precisely the opposite. In this direction, firstly, we are implementing a central licensing system. Currently, some forty-five public bodies are involved who are consulted and licensed linearly, successively, either public or private. Secondly, we are moving towards the creation of standards of operation and classification of public technical services and technical services. In all public services with a technical object of all levels, from local government to ministries, minimum standards will be laid down for staffing with scientific capacity and the necessary logistical infrastructure. Thirdly, we are going to change the tendering systems so that there are no time-consuming procedures for the conclusion of tenders. Fourthly, we proceed with the compulsory preparation of implementation studies, the preparation of real budgets and maintenance and operating files for all projects. The Ministry and the supervised bodies are ready to implement a large number of public infrastructure projects and studies, which unfortunately do not have the time to develop. We are ready to relaunch the projects that have been afflicting the country for decades. We are ready to speed up your projects that have not been completed. We are ready for new projects, useful to the social and productive needs of the Greek people, using all the financial tools. Thirdly, it is institutional change. With this in mind, we legislate and implement - and it is a primary political commitment by the government - the resolution of the area by introducing uniform rules and transparency rules and a central electronic system for monitoring technical projects, open to citizens. We are legislating and implementing a system for monitoring the operation and maintenance of public and private projects. We are legislating and implementing a price monitoring and monitoring of project costs. We are introducing a single real budget from the thirteen present. We provide for a system of single registries of the production of technical projects and their connection to the timescales of the projects, so that we can spread the projects to many and not very few. I shall conclude, Mr President. I need two minutes. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]]
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u399	Minister, you don't have them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u400	Literatures...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u401	Please submit to the Minutes the speeches, to be posted and have a position of Programming Declarations. Or we won't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u403	Hang up, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u404	I'll be done. The fourth axis is the action of extroversion. There is no country where the private sector has developed without a healthy and productive public sector. All supervised bodies of the Ministry will have an executive structure and an executive member with responsibility for extroversion. The fifth axis is the connection between public works and transport. I'll submit it to the Minutes for the transport. For frequencies, our commitment is to complete the draft law under consultation and its regular legislation to ensure the provision of network throughout the territory. You can reply to us - it is good - that the only approved study at the Ministry provides for two hundred and fifty-seven emission points and the ministerial decision you made has a hundred and fifty-six. You cared about the investment costs of DIGEA...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u406	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...but you don't care about our islands. In Thrace, it is also a national matter of having Greek television. Of course, we will not let the regulators operate in the way they operate, in order to serve interests. They will become truly independent authorities with independent functions. In conclusion, we also have a vision and a plan. We will fight with maintenance, with neoliberalism, with the measures that have been imposed and we will win with our people, because this is the bet of our new generation, it is the patriotic bet of our own generation for our children, it is the bet of the unfulfilled visions of the older generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u407	Mr George Stathakis, Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, the Minister should submit his speech in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u409	To present the speeches of the Ministers with the specific measures in the Minutes within the year, so that they can be posted and in the Programmatic Declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u410	The Minister from Stepma said he'd testify in the Minutes. But he has nothing to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u411	Okay. Here is the Minister. Mr. Spirtzi, will you testify?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u412	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u413	Here you go, Mr. Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u414	Ladies and gentlemen, the key point in the Greek economy, as it turns out, is that it has different readings if we judge at least the positions of the Officerial Response, but they are not based on a different analysis of certain data but on the data itself, on the falsification of the data itself. And I am referring to the most controversial issue, which is the issue of debt. Is the debt increased because of SYRIZA's policy and the new agreement? We knew that debt had increased, when New Democracy ruled, with 100 billion, a record unique and fantastic for the time, in the four-year New Democracy. We know that the PSI erased 100 billion and added just 100 billion. Therefore, the total debt remained exactly at 416 billion. Did SYRIZA add a public debt in 2015? The answer is negative. And one of the positive aspects of the agreement - there can be criticism on many points - is that the 50 billion that the country was called upon to repay as short-term loans in the next three to four years to the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank - 48 billion and 2 billion to some other loans - were converted into a long-term, thirty-year, lower interest rates and much better repayment terms. Therefore, the effort of these 50 billion to be added, to appear as a new debt is unprecedented, if not misleading. I could stand by the other 33 billion to 83 billion, as all 25 billion, as you know, is the recapitalisation of the banks that includes all the 10 billion that were in existence and the famous 7 billion, which could be considered a new debt, is the money that will be given to the real economy. One argument, therefore, is a form of oxymarine and it also conceals a second, very important given that it is unnecessarily positive of this agreement, which is the financial adjustment, because it has been exactly what I have just told you about the debt. I do not raise the matter of the negotiation that will follow for long-term debt, after 1922. The second positive aspect of the crisis is the fact that instead of in the next few years producing surpluses of 4.5%, starting from this year, we have had an agreement, after this restructuring, to produce zero, one, and so on. and make a soft financial adjustment. This just appears again as a product of a recession, which was caused under the current circumstances. So the second wording is deeply misleading. I say this because there is also a third element, which was done in a misleading way today. When will the economy return to a positive sign? Mr. Meimarakis told us that in 2016 there is a recession in the agreement. True. But if you read the agreement in full - and the figures are clear - we predict 2.5% recession this year, 1% of the time - which means that the economy is turning to growth at some point in 2016, after the recession is reduced, it is just mathematics - and it provides the positive figure in the second quarter of 2016. It would be so if we did not have much more positive developments in the intervening period. It will not be 2.5% the recession in 2015, as it turns out. It'll be much smaller. It'll be much less than 2%. It can be at 1.5% for two main reasons: Firstly, the performance of the economy in tourism and in many other sectors during the year. Secondly, from the softest impact than the calculated one, from the capital controls, which, from this point of view, says that, firstly, the turn to a positive sign can be done earlier than 2016 and, secondly, the result of 2016, can be more positive than the agreement, which we had negotiated some time ago. This, in order to restore some data and to raise the third and most important issue, which is the absolutely important criterion. The viability of the agreement itself. We will all agree in this Chamber that its viability depends on the return of the economy to a positive sign, a return to growth, the stability that this return will show in growth and the potential to produce the results we want, which is a strong return to economic growth, but with a strong dose of social justice. This is, in many cases, the development strategy of the present government. Returning in a coordinate way by taking all the necessary measures in a positive process for the economy, with a strong aspect of social justice. Let me turn to five - six key points in this shift in the economy, which justify the fact that this strategy exists and has a strong chance of success. The first issue - the key point - is the stabilisation of the banking system and the management of the'red' loans. It's wrong for the Opposition to disconnect these two. The recapitalisations were failed, precisely because they did not manage this problem. That is why the problem has been transferred, whether or not it was government, or what it was doing, and today the present government is being called upon to solve this problem definitively and irrevocably on a suffocating time horizon until Christmas. The integration of banks from 1 January into the European banking system will be a key factor in the stability of the system and the refinancing of the economy. Second key point. Conservation and guidance or mobilisation of all available financial resources in order to provide adequate financial resources and instruments for the economy. Let me reflect on what we have done. Firstly, the criticism of the ESDP has failed miserably. The agreements we have on the completion of the old NSRP and on the launch of the new one, together with the two positive facilities that have been made specifically for Greece, which are the substitution of 5% of national participation with European resources and the increase in the advance payment for the next NSRP from 7% to 14%, ensure - and given their absorption -4.5 billion for the next three months for the Greek economy. This investment pressure, the financial pressure we all want, is a given one. The second point concerns the diplomacy that we have developed and the contracts that we signed with EBRD and other international organisations to finance the Greek economy. The third part concerns the activation of new tools with which there can be sufficient funding, the 'developmental law' type. The old development law left us huge problems and an attempt is being made to close down. The consultation on the new development law ended, which will be passed next month. Fourth meter. Establish a development bank. We promised her from the first quarter. We are now very close to taking this abrupt step, which is necessary for one fundamental reason. The development bank will be the main financial instrument between the mobilisation of money by Juncker for small and medium-sized enterprises. Fifth meter. The completion of the public procurement procedure. Unification of the entire public procurement system is a commitment of our country by Christmas. This is moving forward and will be a key tool for the resolution of the public procurement system. Sixth point. The establishment of a development council, which will be held directly at the Ministry, in order to have an advisory body which can intervene on issues either related to development planning or to individual activities. I will close in less than a minute on the issue of the main objective of our policy in relation to the model of economic development. I will not dwell on the many things we have repeated at times. I'll be on the one and only. The Greek economy was believed and we believe that it should turn - with the focus of its high-level human resources - exclusively on high-value activities. This is about the whole economy. It's not just about parts of the economy, services, industry, construction. It concerns the agricultural sector, the whole of the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u415	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u416	I'm closing, Mr. President. This orientation must have a strong degree of extroversion, it must be geared to the international market. That's our big bet. Our policy is to supplement the investment activity, which is already done by a private or public sector or by attracting foreign investment, but which, in the end, has this strong qualitative upgrading of the Greek economy. That's the model, and that's why we'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u417	Thank you. Please be all strict in time. Mr. Xydakis, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor for eight minutes. He's not here. The Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr. Antonopoulou, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u418	Ladies and gentlemen, in the last six years of the crisis, as you know and as our society has experienced, we have suffered an unprecedented disaster and disinvestment in our country. The measures taken by previous governments have disappeared 25% of our economy and have led to at least one million of our fellow citizens in unemployment. Despite the terrible difficulties ahead of us, society has entrusted us with the country's governance, with the aim of bringing back a new normality to the Greek society and economy. The time will come to judge, as the previous governments have judged. At the moment, what I mean is that restoring normality is clear that it requires the relaunch of the economy. As long as all of us together in the government are working to create these conditions that will open permanent jobs, my responsibility is to support as many unemployed as possible. With the limited resources available to us, to the hundreds of thousands of unemployed fellow citizens and also to you, the MP you represent them, my Prime Minister has again given me the honour to give me this difficult role of supporting the unemployed and to be accountable to you. The seriousness of the matter in the previous period has prevented us from celebrating the small but stable successes and the steps we have taken in this direction. I would like to say and respond to the misinformation we have had today that they are not fond of money from the ESDP. We have already registered EUR 950 million - not EUR 700 million. We have already planned to incorporate a hundred thousand unemployed. Another hundred thousand in the next six months and from March to the end of next year another hundred fifty thousand. I do not know where you are getting this information from some Members who have referred to it. I would also like to say that the delays that have been made have been the time to reprogramming and correct the mistakes that have been made in the past. We still have not been disembodied in complaints but those responsible - those who had approved them in the past - know what exactly was happening. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to tell you in summary the pillars to which we shall be heading from now on in terms of planning for the unemployed. The first pillar concerns the recovery of unemployment, linking employment policies firmly and continuously to the real needs of the labour market, so that programmes - whatever they need - are linked to the real needs of the labour market. The treatment of unemployment by creating new jobs, particularly for those in the population with the highest rates of unemployment, such as long-term unemployed, women, unemployed with low qualifications, is our priority. Moreover, addressing the unemployment of young people, particularly those outside the labour market, and their integration into the labour market, the development of employment and training programmes in sectors of economic activity which have prospects and are consistent with the country's productive reconstruction, just as Mr Stathakis has just described. It is on this programming that we already have the expertise of the next generation of programs that are for a hundred thousand unemployed. I referred to this before. I would also like to say that it has been created in the wider market and in the space a feeling that our Government is not in favour of training. That's not true. Wherever and whenever necessary through specific training courses and certification of the qualifications and skills acquired by the unemployed, we shall proceed in this direction. But it's not the only way. We are planning integrated territorial interventions in areas with high unemployment rates, which need another development approach with employment measures, improving the skills of people, but more importantly, with support from small and medium-sized enterprises and youth entrepreneurship. We are also planning a special programme to deal with the unemployment of young scientists who are forced to leave abroad to keep the work force out of our country. As far as the funds at our disposal are concerned, in addition to the more rational and efficient management of the available Community funds today, we have started - and we already have some successes at European level - the expansion of these resources. One of the speakers said before to Mr Pantoan from Italy - he did not say him by his name - who has proposed and tabled this proposal for the creation of an unemployment fund. We started in this direction from the first day we had taken over the country's governance in January 2015. The creation of specific programmes for the long-term unemployed is also being discussed at European level. We have supported this, and we have strongly proposed it in Riga and Luxembourg, where the Ministry of Labour participated, and we can say that we have a success. Here we see a definite example of the fact that Europe can change, it can understand the specific circumstances of certain countries which do not have little unemployment but have very significant problems in this direction. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speech of the Minister is ringing.]] I will conclude by being at your disposal to provide regular information on the progress we will have in the Ministry of Labour and another meeting, so that I can develop our actions for the social economy, which, as you know, is horizontal activity, horizontal planning very important for this government. I'll testify the rest of my speech on the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u419	Thank you very much Mrs Antonopoulou. Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Dritsos Theodores and Xydakis Nikolaos. I am very sorry that my colleague, Mrs English, and Mr Cremastino, will not be able to speak. 90 colleagues have already spoken. At least five times, in similar procedures, they had spoken from sixty-six to seventy-eight Members. With an even better time management, it would be possible in the hundreds to go, but it's not possible. We're going to pass the twelfth so the Prime Minister can start, and it's not allowed. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government is first called upon to implement the binding agreement with lenders. Indeed, there are open grounds for demand, which are a success of negotiation, and therefore the battle and the effort will continue. Indeed, there are also considerable margins for planning and implementing parallel policy in critical areas beyond the Memorandum of Understanding. In these two areas, moreover, we are aspiring together with society to give ourselves the best way to overcome enormous difficulties so that we can balance or even overcome negative materialistic consequences of the agreement, and in many anti-grassroots consequences, to cancel the operation of a campaign of domestic and European forces that sought and sought the 'left parenthesis' in Greece and Europe. That is why we have again addressed the Greek people and with his verdict in the recent elections, this realistic but at the same time strict, mandated - approval. We know very well - and you know that - that the Greek people also know that what we have forcedly committed ourselves now to implementing, especially the immediate and forward-looking of October - is not our programme. It is the product of a painful compromise, after a hard and necessary battle we have fought in the name of the Greek people against forces that have proved to be not only powerful but also irrationally inconsistent. We believe, however, that despite the fact that the immediate consequences of the compromise are hard, this battle should have been fought in the medium term. But now, in fact, we are called upon to implement the Memorandum of Understanding, in order to prevent and not to make it very easy for the overall collapse with the most disastrous consequences for the popular and medium-sized layers, in order to keep the possibility of a socially just recovery, not to put a "floor" on the expectations and needs of the Greek society open. That's why we stayed. That's why we didn't escape. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy mainly has two such obligations to implement directly, unmarked obligations from the first and second Memorandums. The first is the continuation of the competitive process for the sale of 51% of the shares in the PPA and then of the Port Authority of Thessaloniki, by submitting binding offers for the PPA in October. We are bound by this agreement. The competitive process itself, however, includes issues on which social consultation is required for the use of areas and installations, as well as for the regulation of port operations on the basis of commonly accepted international rules of public interest. That is not what we are committed to. Some people do that they don't understand. But those who know and participate in the processes understand it very well. In this direction, we will seek, among other things, contracts for the concession of the Greek State to PPA and PLTH in a way that safeguards the maximum possible interests of the public and the needs of the employees of local communities and municipalities, supervision and control of the operation of ports, in accordance with European standards, the creation of public port authorities in Piraeus and Thessaloniki, completion of the structure and responsibilities of the Port Regulatory Authority. The second binding obligation concerns the composition of the crew of large passenger ferries on domestic lines. In the negotiation process we have fought hard, but I must say that within the institution-guarantee requirement seems to have had strong supporters, although not evident. I'm stopping here, I mean. Our attempt was not to pass the transfer of the Adriatic model to internal lines but, in the light of the safety of human life at sea, to set the level of staffing for all staff categories. It's not our choice. We are now in the process of preparing implementation plans. We will seek a dialogue within the pressing time frame, clearly understanding that the issue has an obvious social-working dimension. Beyond these binding obligations, however, we will seek to unfold a step forward - our political programme for the Ministry of Shipping and Islands Policy. There will be a lot of important and important judgments. In this direction, the majority of my programme statements before Parliament in February 2015 apply. The commitment to complete legislative and other initiatives taken during the first seven months of governance also applies. A separate position on these initiatives is, among other things, the restoration and vindication of the unpaid seafarers of the NEL, the introduction as an act of justice of the entrants and officers at the schools of the Port Body, the restoration and operation of the buildings of the Navy Academys in Mechanonia, the "everything" for the students of AEN Aspropyrgos, the performance of the seafront of the port of Patras in the Municipality of Patras and others. There is indeed also in the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy looking for new resources and saving non-functional expenditure. These will be our equivalents without social costs, on the contrary, with social benefits. We seek this direction to upgrade the efficiency of the Hellenic Coast Guard, the fight against smuggling at sea, to establish the Register of Tourist Ships, to make the collection system of the end of ships operational, to establish an electronic ticket everywhere, to change the costly water supply system of the anhydrous islands with important initiatives already developed by the General Secretariat of the Aegean Sea and its Secretary-General. For the Port Corps. The support of the Port House in its efforts to manage the refugee flows is our absolute obligation. Yesterday in Mytilini, in addition to the high ranks, the Chief and other officials of the Port Body were near us, on behalf of the representatives of the Port Body who act every day, were in the area and across the Aegean Sea, Lt. Kyriakos Papadopoulos, the captain of the ship. He is the one who saved a baby who saved many elderly people who have saved more than five thousand people, he and his crew, who have saved all of them together over seventy thousand people without a loss in the rescue process and this man, we really met him and not just me, but Chancellor of Austria and the Greek Prime Minister congratulated him. Alexis Tsipras said that in the face of Kyriakos Papadopoulos the entire Port Corps and the battle is expressed. It is expressed and represented by the good person of Greece, the good person of Europe and proposed that the present Commissioner of the Port Authority should initiate the procedure to propose and be awarded as a representative of the whole House, Kyriakos Papadopoulos, from the Academy of Athens, and that will be the case. [[Applause]] The Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, and in particular the Port Corps and the General Secretariat of the Aegean, in close cooperation with the Greek Police, the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Ministry of Migration Policy, the Ministry of National Defence, the Interior, the Ministry of Health, raise a great deal of weight from the management of refugee and migratory flows. In this direction we will continue, respecting international conventions, international conditions with humanism but also with real professionalism, which is of great importance in supervising borders, but also in safeguarding national sovereignty, because research and rescue do not only have the huge importance on the humanitarian side but also have the very delicate and very important aspect of safeguarding our country's geostrategic and geopolitical sovereign rights. It's worth gratitude, it's worth it all the time. Strengthening the infrastructure of the Port House, supporting the needs of the staff, establishing an import system in this House with transparency, parity and integrity, direct reform of the Presidential Decree on Transitions and much more, is our obligation to modernise and upgrade this House. Maritime work - I am moving quickly, Mr President - maritime education, the redesign of the coastline, is in our immediate priorities, the completion, the creation of an integrated information system and maritime education and many other sectors of the operation of the Ministry are also in our priorities. I'm not going to talk very much about the water supply. The key issue is to increase jobs in seagoing shipping. The competitiveness of Greek-occupied and Greek seagoing shipping cannot be achieved when the human potential, the Greek seafarers are decreasing at such a dramatic rate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u421	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u422	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm going over a few issues, I'm going to put it in the Minutes. I conclude by referring to the General Secretariat of the Aegean Sea and resolving the problem of the anhydrous islands of the Aegean Sea, which are currently under way, as well as ensuring water autonomy and self-sufficiency with a substantial and drastic reduction in costs. The pilot projects for Kastelorizo and Patmos are already under way. The upgrading of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy, the creation of a powerful body, with the implementation of the island clause, the merger of the decentralised administration of the Aegean Sea, which we are studying, with the Board of Island Policy and the establishment of the Research Institute for Island Policy, are also in our priorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u423	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u424	Finally, Mr President, I address the Greek citizens. I want them to think it's worth giving these battles. If we insist, if we endure, if they - the citizens - continue to support us, then we will keep the roads for the left-wing, for overcoming disquiet and frustration, and for the vindication of struggles and sacrifices of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Before giving the floor to the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Xydakis, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to you Mr 12665/8316 from 7-10-2015, the President of the Parliament, the permanent committees of this House. The relevant decision will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. The committees are ready. They meet on Monday afternoon, take off their Bureaus and start work on Tuesday morning and the Conference of Presidents is set up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u426	Please, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u427	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has passed, there is a tiredness. Following the Programming Declarations, as soon as possible, I will present to you our positions and plans for our policy within the framework of the European Union and Europe. Greece seeks active participation and a contribution to the reform of the European Union by strengthening the institutions of solidarity, cooperation, transparency and democracy. The ongoing economic and financial crisis, combined with the explosion of the refugee, immigration problem, call into question fundamental European values and test the coherence of European societies. Euroscepticism and even Europhobia strengthening extremist political forces are some of the symptoms that occur in almost all the Member States of the European Union. On the other hand, we do not see a comprehensive and convincing response from the European Union to meet the expectations and needs of European citizens. Europe is not a paradise but is our common political area. Our historic opportunity and our duty is to make use of European conditions, to highlight their political content and the latent possibilities, those that are being triggered by the Union itself, whenever necessary, in order to provide institutional and practical solutions to the new problems. The major economic crisis that began in 2008 and continues, caused such shifts and adjustments to the European institutions, unthinkable before a crisis. EFSM and the ESM are two such fruits of this adaptation to the crisis. Another parallel aspect of our policy must be our insistence on the common European acquis, our inclusion in the existing provisions of the common acquis, which seemed to be being lost in the years of our coming into the European Union's programmes. After all, this is the essence of a united Europe. In other words, Europe is a common political area, a place of peaceful and creative coexistence and not an vague ideology, a wishing list or a moralist rhetoric, a common political area that is shaped by shocks, retreats, reflections, corrections, and even conflicts - I mean proponent conflicts. From this point of view, the painful experience of the latter for our country can and must - and we do so already - emerge into European experience and not as a national exception. And the course of our reconstruction is to look like the European example of exiting the crisis so that we can stop being the convenient example. This reversal of the stereotype or even malicious - but not constructive for any - Greek example will be our highest contribution in our country and in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, for some years now, our country has been facing great challenges, but they also concern Europe as a whole. We have been managing for several weeks, a few months, the enormous pressure on refugee flows, a pressure disproportionate to our potential and amid severe budgetary constraints. At national level we are making superhuman efforts on a daily basis to welcome refugees with a hospitable mood and humanity. At the same time, we seek to find collective European solutions based on the principles of solidarity, humanism and fair sharing of responsibilities and burdens. After painful efforts at European level, the allocation of a hundred and sixty thousand refugees among the Member States of the European Union has been agreed for the next two years. This is only a first step, a small step, but a step. Because, given the huge number of refugees we have no illusions that the problem is being solved definitively. We are also working to create a permanent internal relocation mechanism for those in need of international protection. We need to pay particular attention to the legitimate routes of immigration so that the vicious circle of the dependence of refugees and migrants is leaked from the traffickers' circuits. And we must focus above all on the root of the problem, namely the bloody many conflicts that force millions of people to leave their homes and seek a definitive settlement of the crises in our region as soon as possible. In this direction, moreover, they spoke to the European Parliament today before the European Members of Parliament and Chancellor Merkel and President Olad. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of the economy, the project of deepening the economic and monetary union of Europe is a first-class opportunity to tackle the architectural imperfections of EMU, those that have become so evident in the economic crisis of recent years in the euro area. The degree of success of the EMU project will determine the European Union's course as a whole. The key element of EMU, which our country seeks, is the adoption of a framework of economic governance which, based on solidarity and social indicators, will respond with the necessary flexibility in the needs of European citizens and will ensure growth, employment, modernisation and improvement of the competitiveness of our economies. But above all, it will ensure social cohesion. In this direction, the activity of the Greek Parliament and the exploitation of the role that the Treaty of Lisbon attaches to the national parliaments could contribute to strengthening democratic legitimacy within the European Union. In this context, the role of the Committee on European Affairs could seem crucial and I look forward to a fruitful cooperation with the Members who make up the committee. In the same context, we support the active role of the European Parliament as a guarantor of democratic legitimacy in the functioning of the European Union. As you know, the Greek Government issued an official request to the President of the European Parliament on 19 August for the institutional involvement of the European Parliament in the regular process of monitoring the implementation of the loan contract, thus strengthening democratic accountability and strengthening the chances of focusing on the social consequences of austerity policies. In view of the recovery of our economy, the strengthening of growth and employment, we are always seeking benefits from the operation of the European Investment Fund - the so-called Juncker Plan - to stimulate growth in all the Member States of the European Union. This possibility is also expressly mentioned in the Agreement of 12 July. In the same direction we will emphasise the use of resources and the potential of cohesion policy. For the 2014-2020 programming period in the area of cohesion policy, Greece has the possibility of raising funds of around EUR 21 billion. In addition, our efforts will focus on the forthcoming review of the 2014-2020 Multiannual Financial Framework to achieve the strengthening of our country with additional resources. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Only two words, Mr President, for the latter. As regards the Union's relations with its neighbours and third countries, Greece supports the enlargement policy in the Western Balkans and Turkey, because it believes that the prospect of accession to neighbouring countries is a catalyst for the consolidation of peace and democracy, so also for stability and development in the region. Finally, we are working towards the gradual normalisation of Euro-Mediterranean relations as we consider Russia to be a strategic partner of the European Union and at the same time towards the constant strengthening of the European Union's dialogue with the countries of the southern Mediterranean. We also consider it important that the European Union and, in particular, the committee take into account the concerns of civil society in the trade and, above all, transatlantic agreements, such as the TTIP agreement, particularly as regards the need for greater transparency and information.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u429	One more word, Mr President, to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u431	Report to the Minutes. Mr. Georgiadis, you will not speak. You're after the next Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u432	No, no, there is not what you say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u433	I need a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u434	Mr. Georgiadis, sit down right now. The Minister's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u435	When it's over, I'll take the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u436	Sit down right now. You'll talk for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u437	Don't have that look, Mr. Voutsi. We don't start well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u438	We're not good! Please, sit down. I don't know why you're upset, but I'm not at all. I've been up here for seven hours. Be quiet. Be very quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u439	He's been over his time already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u440	As much as he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u441	Who told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u442	We went very well. You're here and you have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u443	I'll see you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u444	Yeah, I'll see you around. Mr. Xydakis, please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u445	I need thirty seconds. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our country is at a critical historic turning point. Let us consider what we have taken from Europe, how we have taken advantage of what we have taken or not exploited, what we have gained and what we have lost. Let's learn. But let us also consider how we can teach Europe through our own experience, through our own mistakes and our losses, and above all by how we are now trying hard to reverse adverse historical data. The aim of our own, progressive governance, the creative composition of pragmatism and radicalism is not only a national objective is European. This is what Greek citizens expect, that is what European citizens expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u448	What do you want? Please, we have a great deal of time and the government's programming statements are being heard. It will not be at the expense of the ministers and the hearing. Mr. Juliaraki, excuse me. Sit down for a moment, before I call you, because I have given the floor for a point of order to Mr Georgiadis as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, I have asked for the floor under Rule 67(2) and (3) on an incidental matter, because something has probably not happened before all these years in this House and I am surprised that it is taking place in your Presidency and in its beginning. They have spoken on a continuous basis five SYRIZA Ministers. Five Ministers! Have we forgotten that there is the rule of rotation in the House? What do you think is here? Is SYRIZA conference here? Here, Mr President, it is the Greek Parliament and it has rules. If you have time pressure, you will tell us, you will consult with this House, we will agree to the procedure, to find a human being in terms of time, but it does not mean that the Bureau alone has the right to violate the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you - and I say this for the good start of your term of office, which I hope is indeed good - that phrases of the style 'Be quiet' do not suit the President of this House. I'm going to be quiet as much as I and I think. But you are obliged to observe the Rules of Procedure. Well, Mr President, the government cannot keep talking. This is a parliament. The government speaks and then the House answers. The government speaks again, the House answers. You will observe this because if you do not respect this you have violated the Rules of Procedure. I do not want to believe that you want to start your term by violating the principle of the rotation of speakers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. The answer is: Take all previous procedures, at least the last four, and you will see that every effort has been made. In 2012 we started at 4.15 seconds this afternoon only the ministers spoke. The last one of you, Mr. Kumoutsakos, spoke an hour ago. They spoke an absolute ratio of ninety, most of which have ever spoken. As parliamentarians, with the rotation you have made with Mr Mitsotakis, you have spoken twenty-five-and-five-half minutes against the seventeen-minute parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. I would ask you to study all the elements and practices of all the last statements made in the Schedules, to see that we are not just working under the Rules of Procedure, but perhaps - at least for the moment - the best procedure, but not the best - not for the reason you said, but for the reason that another sixty Members wanted to be present. I would ask you not to insist on the objection, because there is a decision by this House anyway on the procedure. As a whole, this has been read from the beginning of today's procedure, without any objections being raised to the surface from either side. Allow me, and what I told you about quiet and quiet, I take it back if it bothered you. I don't have a problem like that. I would ask Mr Juliarakis to take the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u451	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u452	Mr. Papachristopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u453	I am the last person I would like to spoil the climate of peace which really exists in this House. I was gone for five, six minutes, when Mrs. Gennimata, who honestly respects her, and we've never been polarized with her, used an expression of extremity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u454	For you personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u455	Not personally, for our party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u456	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u457	He mentioned us as a right-wing extremist. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u458	No, no. You're very welcome. They are political attributes, but they are not personal in any case. So you can't take any different speech. You're very welcome. Everyone's getting their impressions out of how everyone talks. You took yours off. Here those who have listened to this speech have their opinion. Mr. Juliaraki, please, for the last time, and I'm sorry we raised you up and sat you twice. Come on, let's move on, we got a problem of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u459	Mr President of the House, ladies and gentlemen, the new parliamentary term that starts these days finds the Greek economy and society seriously injured by the great economic recession that began seven years ago, in the second quarter of 2008, and accelerated with the implementation of the first memorandum in the summer of 2010. During this recession, the country lost one quarter of national income. It created a million and a half unemployed, 1.2 million of whom are unemployed for a longer period of 12 months, with an average unemployment of two and a half years. Every unemployed person on average has been and remains unemployed for two and a half years. Three hundred and fifty thousand households do not have one working member, with a diverse increase in economic disparities, but also with the country's public debt at levels significantly higher than those of 2010 and without access to international markets, of course. The newly elected left-wing government has a mandate to deal precisely with the systemic diseases caused by this recession, but also with the social and economic consequences of the recession. And it is called upon to do so in an environment that is complex, interdependent, in an environment of tight economic constraints, with few resources and with incomplete policy tools. I'm sure it's not the environment that a government would choose to engage in politics. But that is the environment we are facing, that is the environment in which the country is located, that is the reality. The left-wing government will be judged by its ability to manage this reality successfully so that it can actually achieve three objectives: firstly, the end of the great recession, the reduction of social inequalities, and also the increase in economic independence with access to international markets. I will try to describe in the next few minutes, however difficult this may be, the main axes of the macroeconomic strategy that the government will follow in both short and medium-term terms. I would say that this strategy is set up around three main objectives: the first objective is economic stability, one that the previous left-wing government from January to August 2015 already has a very big success. This success is the August Agreement. Under the agreement of August, the government has solved the country's acute financial problem over the next three years. It has therefore eliminated the risk of exiting from the common currency, has provided a climate of confidence in the prospects of the Greek economy and has given valuable oxygen so that now it has been re-tested after systemic problems and the systemic pathogens that have led to this crisis. So I would say that there has already been considerable soil covered. The government will, however, continue to work so that economic stability can be consolidated beyond that. In the next few days, the functioning of the Financial Council, an institution that will further enhance credibility in budgetary policy and leave the logic of producing deficits in the past of bi-groupism that has ruled from 1974 to the beginning of 2015. The second major axis - the objective of the government's macro-economic strategy is the immediate recovery of the economic recession. We shouldn't close our eyes to reality. The reality is that the restrictive fiscal policy, however mild - even the mild restrictive fiscal policy that the Left Government is required to implement at the end of 2015 and at the beginning of 2016 - produces substantial results. I would like to stress that precisely because the budgetary objectives of the primary surpluses are significantly lower than the new programme with the two previous programmes, budgetary adjustment over a period of four years is indeed significantly weaker. The actual momentum of previous programmes, the one that broke into the country's social fabric from 2010 to 2015, is significantly weaker. However, it is there and we have to deal with it. The Left Government will deal with it in three ways. Two of these ways have already activated them. The first is the forward use of Community programmes. Mr Stathakis explained that this has already been agreed and EUR 4.5 billion will strengthen the Greek economy before the end of 2015. Secondly, it is the repayment of half the government’s dues to the private economy. I would remind you that a total of EUR 7 billion is due by the end of 2015 and that as a result of the agreement, 3.1 billion will have been repaid. Mostly, it is the debt regulation that will follow the end of the first assessment, a regulation that will create an additional budget space for the Greek public finances, by reducing the cost of service, and thus increasing the private economy again. The third axis - the objective of the macro-economic strategy, an axis that was absent not only from economic policy, but also from the point of view of the previous governments, is the redistribution of stabilization costs for the weaker. I shall be brief here - because Mr Alexiades has already mentioned - the revision of the Code of Income Tax in a progressive way, the creation of the property, the widening of the tax base in the parts of society which have so far not been involved in the burden of adjustment, but also in the revision of expenditure, their reassessment, if you like, from a zero basis, so that funds can be released so as to increase the share of social expenditure over a period of four years and to strengthen welfare, health and the fight against unemployment. As in every critical turning of the modern history of the country, the Greek Left is now being called upon to deal with extremely complex problems in conditions of acute crisis. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Macroeconomic policy is, in any case, an exercise of a balance between conflicting objectives. The bet that this government will win is that the resurgence of recession and budgetary equilibrium are compatible with social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u460	Thank you very much Mr. Juliarakis. Mr. Flamouraris, Minister of State, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u461	Ladies and gentlemen, our government has a prospect of four years with a purely popular mandate and we must realise that. This mandate of the Greek people contained a substantial, quality message, a message that says to the political system and, in particular, to the government that we should not be, nor become, a government continuity of these two-party governments, which led the country to a dead end, the Greeks and the Greeks to poverty, youth in a dead end for a life without prospect, for a life without dignity. On the contrary, our Government seeks to overcome it, and must clash with stagnation, inertia, complexity, economic and political life, to be a government that clashs with the blacks of the old and will bring new air of liberation, creation and equality. It is not easy to overcome what we are seeking, nor is it given. We will have to arm ourselves with courage and exploit - but without abuse - the social reserves of hope in order to overcome difficulties and obstacles. This overcoming is necessary and feasible and our own brother will be the Greek people. Because the Greek people renewed their mandate to our Government, because they recognized that we are fighting to defend their interests. That will continue to do with all our powers and our new government service. But what things will we continue to fight for? These are classified in four categories. The first category is the positive elements of the agreement, which we must bring and we must fight for them. The new agreement includes lower budgetary objectives and surpluses, which in the next three years ensure 20 billion euros, which we will use, firstly, for the economic development of the country and, above all, for strengthening the most vulnerable social groups. The new agreement contains sufficient resources to recapitalise the banks by combining the red loan solution at the same time. This is how we ensure the deposits and stabilise the banking system, one of the conditions necessary for the recovery of the Greek economy. Thirdly, it includes a number of short-term development prospects through the 35 billion package, which we have secured. Finally, in the positive aspects of this agreement, it includes a number of things from our programme, such as combating corruption in all its manifestations, combating tax evasion and undeclared work. Critical in our assessment - mentioned by other speakers - is the creation of a single and modern institutional framework for public procurement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u462	Be quiet, please. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u463	All this has been mentioned in detail by the relevant ministers, despite the positions of several members of the House of Commonwealth, who are in fact claiming that there is no strategy, no content, no programme. Contrary to all this, the ministers have demonstrated that there is also a programme and an effort to relaunch the country's economy and productive reconstruction. We must be honest, there are also tough aspects to this agreement, which we promised to implement, because if we do not implement it, we cannot move on to important issues of strategic importance, so that we can get away from the agreements that we will be able to get away from the force of the crisis that is afflicting us. A basic negative measure is overtax, which continues. We will, however, try to reduce it by two meters, until we eliminate it. One is the fight against tax evasion, which by every means will be promoted, and the second objective is through taxation on the largest incomes to alleviate the smaller ones and to actually be able to reduce this tax latitude. Finally, one of the very negative ones which we are obliged to implement, ladies and gentlemen, is privatisation and, in particular, those initiated by the previous governments. We are committed to move them forward, such as the port of Piraeus, such as the fourteen airports, with an objective that we are pursuing and will pursue to the end: to ensure the public interest, the respect of industrial relations and the protection of the environment. These are elements which, in our assessment, we can achieve and we must achieve through these tough negotiations that we are negotiating. Thirdly, the third area is the category of open issues, which we say, with red loans and the recapitalisation of banks, and secondly, the Public Property Development Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, above all, they believe that this fund is a fund which will effectively privatise public property, that is to say it will sell out public property. That's wrong. This fund is to make use of public property. Its revenues, which are at 50 billion for thirty-five years, will be used not only to recapitalise the banks. It will also use 25% for development, and even for the support of the insurance funds, so that a substantial and lasting solution can be found to the issues of the insurance system. There are also issues relating to development and the new development model that we are proposing and which we will discuss in 2016. Other colleagues have referred to this area. I just want to say that the knowledge and skills of the Greek people, secondly, scientific research, technology and innovation, and thirdly, we can say that we will promote the untapped development sources in our country and are favourable, such as those in the agricultural economy and agricultural production, in the industrial sector, in energy production, in transport, in new technologies, in construction and finally in tourism. These are elements which are included in the country's policy of productive reconstruction, with new forms and new models. Finally, there is the issue of democratic freedoms. I do not want to talk about this, the time has passed. The Ministers have mentioned them. I just want to stress a crucial issue, which for all of us is an element of cultural perception and of human dignity. It is our attitude to the immigrants, towards the refugee flow which is in existence and which we all have to evaluate and manage on the basis of criteria which are mainly humanitarian, with criteria which have essentially worked in our country, and the Greeks are distinguished by these perceptions. Finally, I want to make two - three points.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u464	We must close immediately, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u465	Right away. I just want to say to the Chief of Administrator's office that he wronged me. I have no problem either with Mr Meimarakis or with the officials of the New Democracy or with the MPs who belong to different parties. My objection and my refusal to cooperate was because of the policies that were implemented and which led the country to the rocks, led the country to have one and a half million unemployed, led the country to eat a lot of people, as was said by many, through garbage. Because of these policies, which led the country to the rocks, it was my refusal to cooperate and not with the faces, which I respect and appreciate. I conclude by saying:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u466	Mr. Flambury, please leave the Step. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u467	I'm done. What we said there is no way to go forward, there is no way that it will become a reality, unless we have the strong, the daily participation of Greeks and Greeks in this effort. Every day we want their presence, not to support government policy, we want their presence and their struggles, to claim their rights every day from the Left Government. That's the only way we're gonna succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u468	Mr Kotzias, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u469	Mr President, the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u470	What do you want, Mr. Theocharopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u471	Mr President, you announced that the Prime Minister will speak at 23.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u473	They've been talking all the time, Ministers, for how long,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u474	A lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u475	...without having spoken to Vice-Population MPs. At least because we don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Theocharopoulos, these have been analysed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u477	At least, let the Prime Minister now speak, start the process or announce how many ministers are left, because they speak for themselves without a representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u478	Yes, of course. All this is well known. You've been gone and you don't know them. They've responded multiplely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u479	It's 23.20 past.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u480	E-E-E-E-E-E-E? We said 23.20 seconds. It's good to finish 24.20 minutes. What happened? It'll be the earliest we've ever finished. It is to speak with Mr Kotzias, Mr Pappas, Mr Kourublis and Mr Drasakis, the Vice-President. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] What's the problem? We're going as fast as we can. Don't you want to hear the government's Programmatic Declarations? What do you want us to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u481	There's no equivalent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u482	What do you think? What exactly do you want? You wanted forty Ministers to talk yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u483	There's no rival from the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Theocharopoulos, because you were not present in any of the previous respective procedures, when the Chief of Police Vice-Population takes the floor at 18:30 in the afternoon and has in mind the whole corpus of the posts until then and takes a position, it is clear that the circle of Presidents begins. The circle of presidents is closed. The thirteen Ministers that are half the Ministerial Council could not be removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u485	They should have spoken earlier. The Undersecretaries weren't talking in the Programmatic Declarations, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u486	Excuse me. Are you not satisfied that they spoke to ninety Members, who are 15 more than any other time when this was done? What exactly do you object to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u487	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u488	Mr. Theochari, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u489	We can move on, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u490	We can delay more, it's okay, but... Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u491	Two words, Mr President, and in a spirit of good cooperation, as part of taking some lessons on how this should be done in the future, because we have now come to an end and cannot make any substantial changes. We know how many ministers are, we know how many Deputys and the State Secretarys are. Let us plan every number of MPs and how many ministers will speak. I think it is clear that at the beginning of this process yesterday and this morning the ministers did not speak at a satisfactory pace so that they could enter Members and have a representative. It would be better to plan better in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Theochari, I collect your spirit very positively. I just want to say that when they speak thirty-eight Ministers and Deputy Ministers, whoever gets in between, either one to three, or one to four, or one to five, more than two days is required by the Rules and from there the problem begins. We all know, we've been through these benches too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u493	That's why twenty people entered the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u494	Be well. Mr. Kotzias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u495	What are the foreign policy objectives? Three: to serve the interests of the people and of the Greek society, to ensure the territorial integrity of the country, to ensure its sovereignty and its sovereign rights. This government that I represent as Minister for Foreign Affairs is an internationalist and patriotic government based on an active, independent and multi-dimensional policy and often creates problems in various wings. If we go to Russia, they call us Russians. When we go to America, people and American friends call us. When we go to Germany, they say we've found it with the Germans. When we go to Palestine, they'sold the tripartite'. When we go to the tripartite, they'sold the Arabs'. Why this mess? Because they have not realised that foreign policy needs neither large nor small bosses. What is needed is to have the interests of the country and its people above all. Our foreign policy supports the economy and politics, because the country, despite its economic weakness, has an extremely good geopolitical position and a great historical and cultural heritage in which it has much greater power than it currently has in the economy, because the country has developed relations of confidence and good neighbourliness, because the country supports its foreign policy to three principles: negotiation, consultation and arbitration. It does not have to be done publicly, when we help sides with different perceptions or interests on the international stage meet and discuss with our own help. Because this, firstly, gives us a long-term expertise in the international system and, secondly, makes us useful in this whole system. It makes us a solution, not a part of the problem. We are neither a "long hand" to anyone. We are making foreign policy on the basis of three criteria: firstly, our national interest and our solidarity with the fighting peoples, secondly, the European framework and its prospects and thirdly, international and European law. Our foreign policy in the months that have passed has developed a peculiarity and ability to identify the problems. When, at the end of January 2015, we talked about the instability triangle, which includes the Greek state on the top of which Ukraine, at the top left, Libya and on the right, Syria, saw it as a strange shape. Today any politician who deals with international policy abroad uses this shape. And the second is that when we first spoke to our foreign policy at the beginning of February and told the European institutions that there was a new wave of migration of particular tension, because the UN had run out of money, and the average given to the families in the camps in Jordan and Libya is 43 cents a day and when we said that after eight countries that were bombing Syria, here we will have a strong migration movement and waves, they told us that this is not going to come, that we are going to disorientate and some people said I was stupid. Today we see how long the European Union has been unheard of our analyses at the time. Greece is a European country. It is, however, a European country that has an opinion on Europe, which claims to promote its own perception. Because we want another Europe, with more democracy, security and freedoms for the citizen, with more social policy and social safeguards, with an upgraded role for the European Parliament and not bypassing the mechanisms created during the crisis. For, while we have achieved 50 years of struggle, the European Parliament has made it possible to upgrade, the mechanisms for resolving the crisis created by the European Union have left it out. At the same time, we are fighting to revive the ideas of the European Parliament, the European Union and Europeanism as a whole, enriched with experiences of decades. Because we need to see the visions, as we say at the European Councils, and the identity of the European Union in the 21st century and immediately. The European Union and the European continent need a strategy of social democratic development. What does not need to be limited is what the young man from Europe sees in the penalties, in the sanctions - twenty-seven states are subject to sanctions - and in the Memorandums. When the European Union is restricted to these three tools, it is certainly attractive to the new generations. In our policy, the Cyprus issue is top priority. I would also like to formally stress that the Greek Government supports the negotiations on the basis of the UN Security Council decisions and the fact that Cyprus is a Member State of the European Union. We welcome every step of approach between the two communities and welcome the fact that we have convinced the international negotiators that the rights of the three minorities in Cyprus have also been taken into account and have been forgotten for decades. We believe that the Turkish Cypriots should get those rights that will ensure them feel that this island, the Megalnesian, is their own home, the place where the new generation of Turkish Cypriots can have a right to the dream and feel that it can stay, live, build its family in the future. At the same time, we believe that the Greek Cypriots should acquire the highest right and sense of security against the forces of occupation of Northern Cyprus. They have to go. There can be no solution for the Cyprus issue with the maintenance of occupying troops. That's not gonna be a solution. It will be a repetition of what led us to 1974. We must also be done with the guarantees. In April, the Greek Government courageously returned to the fundamental problem the Cyprus problem. We stressed and stressed that the Cyprus issue is not a matter, as it went to appear, of the distribution of natural resources from the gas that has been found, but it is, above all, an issue of occupation and that the guarantors - and I mean, above all, Turkey - have violated the conditions of London and Zurich and are not entitled to guarantee powers. They are not entitled to this because the new regulations, the new international law, do not allow either the use of violence against or the occupation of a third country. With Turkey we have set as an important criterion the development of our relations with Cyprus. We believe and implement strengthening our cooperation and dialogue with Turkey, multilateral and multi-level cooperation. We're promoting the MOIs. But at the same time we do not close our eyes and record its ongoing and provocative actions in the Aegean. We are taking measures and doing the necessary steps in the international environment and community. Of course, we welcome - and it is positive - the fact of the reopening, even with a limited number of students, of high school and high school in Imbros. We're promoting FYROM as well. And we will promote this debate. It is only the government of FYROM that initially refused and finally agreed to this negotiation. However, the main point - and I said it in Skopje for two hours in a public debate - is that FYROM should end with its saturation, that it has to agree in a realistic and constructive manner on the solution of the name-plan. Allow me, Mr President. I wanted to say about Albania that we are continuing to negotiate on many issues and that we are also...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u496	What name are you negotiating for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u497	I heard you quietly. I always hear you in peace. We supported Maroupolis as the great center of Hellenism and we have taken measures to defend and provide health care to food in our family. We support the wider region the stability of Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon and tripartite cooperation. We are not an observer of international developments but an active player. And that is why I need - let me explain this - a reconstruction in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are reconstructing the OSCE and the scientific board that the previous governments have broken up. We have created a new China, Mongolia, the Korean Peninsula...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u498	Minister, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u499	Then let me say one last thing. In this government, we must all agree in this country that there must be rules and that these rules may disturb some people, but they are rules of the functioning of a democratic state. The first rule is that the diplomats who were chased are returning because they uncovered the scandals with the NGOs in 2006. They even undertook to clean them up because they had brought them up. Also, a rule is that officials who have been sentenced for twenty years for a felony cannot be exempted and may not be put on holiday. We have amazing employees at the State Department. We have amazing diplomats, experts, legal and economic advisers. But there are also those who violate these rules. It is a rule that we have asked back the 10 million that NGOs had received without documentary and evidence. It is a rule that we have stopped and taken all necessary steps to stop paying the Ministry of Foreign Affairs PPC and the public of the multi-storey garage in Zalokosta that has cost us up to now 1.5m euros. I don't know how it was possible for the State Department to pay the third-party stores and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u500	Minister, you're done. Please close. We are done and it is a rule that the Ministry should not take off, as it was from 2007 onwards, for business friends diplomatic and service passports. Diplomatic passports are over for friends! These are for people who are in the service of the Greek public and public goods. It is also a rule that when a Minister raises veto on an important national issue, no diplomat is entitled to withdraw it because he does not like it or because third parties are pushing it. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Also - one last - it is a norm to reveal and work for the disclosure of visa sales networks. I'm not gonna let them cover my visa networks. To be clear. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And they'll have to understand the last rule, because they're blacking out the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, blacking out the well-being, the best diplomats we have at the highest level. There must be the last rule. I'm done with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u501	Mr. Kotzia, keep the rule here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u502	Some have to understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is neither personal nor family affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Policy belongs to the Greek people, to Greek society and they serve, not client relations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u503	The Minister of State, Mr. Pappas, has the floor. Please, Mr. Pappa, make time savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u504	I shall be very brief, Mr President, respecting fatigue and the fact that the time has passed. We are, for the second time, in eight months before the Delegation to ask for a vote of confidence, because for the second time our people have chosen a stable European progressive course and this is a historic type of change. I think and hope that those who had in mind the 'parental' scenarios will rethink it and reflect their historic role in the new situation. We, ladies and gentlemen, have legislated and will continue to legislate in the interest of many, the interest of the Greek people. And the interest of the Greek people has imposed public service broadcasting and public service broadcasting operates at the same wage costs as NERIT and has a product produced multiplier: Three channels and many radio stations. We charged the fees for using television frequencies, ready papers to which previous governments did not sign them. Why is that? Because a lot has been heard about our handling of the bill on television licences. The consultation is now complete. But here I must admit that I was open in the mouth listening to the criticism of the Head of New Democracy. In the past few days, New Democracy officials have accused us that this bill should never come. "It's not a bill," he says, "there are some ideas" said the Chief of New Democracy somewhere. "They don't need permissions - he said another New Democracy official - because we're in the digital age," and now they tell us that we don't bring it to blackmail - he says - the channels and treat us privilegedly. I am pleased, personally, that my question will be resolved very soon, because I would like to inform the House that, within the month, the bill on television licences will come to Parliament, will be voted on and everyone in this House will assume their responsibilities. I won't be long. I would like to say that this bill, apart from the licensing of television stations, will also include the setting up of a subsidiary of ERT which, based on its founding law, is also a digital network provider, so we will be going to a time when the private monopoly regime - with which some people have no problem, have a problem when there are public monopolies, in private monopolies they probably do not have a great deal of opportunity and will be able to speak and resurrect - will stop. The bill will regulate the issues of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Postal, it will set up the National Council for Communication Policy, so that we can use all the possibilities that the state currently has to improve the international image of the country and establish a National Centre for Audiovisual Media, in order to support the audiovisual and creative industry in our country, which, if we look at the historical experience internationally, has often contributed to the development of employment and to the improvement of image and living conditions. Finally, we will proceed with the establishment of a internet media register to form the regulatory framework for this area. You know that it is an area that is characterised by immunity and I would also tell you working relationships that are absolutely unregulated, and I think we will all be able to contribute to the normalisation of this area and to a new reality. Ladies and gentlemen, a more comprehensive point and I will conclude with this, respecting the time and the needs of the debate. It is clear from this two-day debate that we have one of the forces that have a clear orientation and make historical choices and another Opposition, which is in a strategic deadlock. Why is he in a strategic deadlock? Because from 2012 onwards he tried to cloak the cloak of the European party. Finish that bet. They lied to the Greek people that the only way for Europe is by their policies. We have shown that in unfavourable connections we have managed to improve the agreement. This will never be heard by a New Democracy official because they want retrospectively, launching charges against SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks to justify unjustified. Because in terms of historical appreciation, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have expressed their views on the policies implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u505	Are you going to tell us what we're going to do? That's fascism!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u506	So call on you to redefine your role in the new historical period, because it has, Mrs Bakoyannis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u507	Do not talk personally, Mr Minister, because there will be a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u508	I'm revoking the personal report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u509	Our role will be determined by us. Do your job!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u510	So the three-day debate, let me inform you that it has an orphan. What's the orphan? Neoliberalism. Mr. Meymarakis told us he's not a neoliberal. We will also await the development of the debate within you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u511	Create the memorandum and leave New Democracy alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u512	All right, Mrs. Swimming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u513	Leave the names, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u514	We will therefore be waiting for the debate to take place within the New Democracy, not with cavetaria but with sincere interest, on what will be the position of the founding party in Greece in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u515	Are you going to tell us what we're going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u516	Now the question is not 'in or out of Europe'. Our people have expressed their views on this. That is the question you went through with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u517	You take measures now and don't talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u518	Don't talk about measures. We will not let the Greek people forget that you invited us to sign a three-way contract. We tell you to know, we will repeat it at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u519	Now say yes and leave the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u520	Every moment the Greek people will remember that when we were fighting, you were telling us "sign measures of 20 billion more and 4% more".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u521	Did you hear us? Do your job and leave us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u522	It's okay. We'll be waiting for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u523	Please, be quiet! Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u524	Say 'yes' to everything and leave the rest!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u525	The question of the new period is "who Greece in which Europe", gentlemen of the New Democracy. Which Greece in which Europe? Greece of economic warfare? We are negotiating for collective bargaining and collective redundancies. What's your position? Here you go, talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u526	Do your own job and let us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u527	Are these Programming Declarations?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u528	Mr. Pappa, please. Questions have been exhausted. Mr. Pappa, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u529	Honestly, Mr President, I also apologise to this House. I'm not used to talking to this many vacations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u530	It's not a vacation. You ask and they answer. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u531	So what Europe then? In what Europe? Because there has been a debate within Europe and on the policies that are being pursued and on the conditions. We'll wait, yes, for New Democracy to be placed, but I'm very sorry that you're going with your acquired speeds. And the Greek people will not forget when the Greek Prime Minister was in the European Parliament and was applauded by the socialists, from the left and the Greens and your political brothers flouted him and denounced him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u532	Are these Programming Declarations?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u533	And I'm very afraid you haven't been taught...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u534	What about the canalarch?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u535	You're welcome. Hang up, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u536	I really don't understand. I made it clear to you what we appreciate, after they quoted...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u537	Are these the government's Programmatic Declarations?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u538	Mr. Kikilia, don't yell. You've eaten my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u539	Where are the investments?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u540	So I've explained what's going to happen, because the bill's coming now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u541	Who did you talk to in America?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u542	It's time to vote and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u543	Mr Kikilia, do not ask questions now, because they will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u544	Don't challenge it so you don't cause it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u545	Uh, I know, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u546	I'm not gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u547	With what fund, my lord, have you spoken?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u548	Mr. Kikilia, don't get angry! There's no reason. Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u549	Honestly, I do not think that this practice of voices characterises the whole of your resignation, but that's all right. So, to conclude, I think that all of Parliament's wings are in front of historical choices and our wing, the parliamentary majority, has shown that Greece's political displacement abroad can also increase and fight and make them and give birth to the critical moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u550	Bravo! Well done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u551	The Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Kurublis, has the floor. Mr Kourublis is very experienced and will be able to tell us in a while. Come on, Panagiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u552	Ladies and gentlemen, the great recent victory of SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras, despite the terrorism of fear and destruction, was a result of triumphs of the logic of the Greek people. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] It was a triumph of the logic of the Greek people, and this requires us to establish the hopeful effort in this place, to rid the place of fatalism and fatalism. By despoiling and voting for the multi-level and multi-speaking economic crisis, can anyone ask, ladies and gentlemen, that result and this test of the Greek people are the result of fate and fatalism? Is it the result of fatal developments or is it the result of political, criminal choices that led the country and have a name and responsibility? Ladies and gentlemen, the place needs a radical, subversive reunification of institutions. We must inspire and satisfy the thirst of Greek society for activation and liberalisation of its creative forces. We need to create modern institutions that will enable the citizen to control power so that it does not fall into the logic of delear and not fall into the logic that leads to fossilification. Ladies and gentlemen, we must reconstitute all levels of the country's structures, all its pillars, in the centre, in the region, so that we can really inspire the sense of isopoliticalism and conflict with the phenomena of economic and social inequality, between the municipalities and the regions. We should work together with all the progressive forces of Europe for a Europe of social democracy and social solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, we must demolish the state of irrationality and replace it with a revolution of simple logic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important and crucial that we do not consider the normality of the state and the present institutions in view of the existing institutional framework. We should be able to monitor the development of the economy and technology in order to transform and transform the static institutions into institutions that are still alive. We are here, ladies and gentlemen, to set up a modern administration with reflexes capable of unleashing production veins from red tape and pluralism. We are here to guide and not be guided by interests and attitudes. We are here to be able to build a civil society and not a society of spectators, of submissives, who do not choose their way of life and accept to regulate their lives. We want a society that will not grant anyone the right to decide for it without it. We want, ladies and gentlemen, to heal the concerns of this society, because we believe it is worthy that the institutions of democracy, where the citizen will be a true citizen, a sovereign of himself, will be a citizen who will know how to govern and rule, as Aristotle said. Ladies and gentlemen, the view that Greeks cannot make great changes is as anachronistic as that of the view that Greeks can do everything. We believe that a society with such a history and a route is a society that has stockpiles that should make use of it, so that it can earn the lost time separating it from other societies. So, in the context of e-government, by exploiting this great potential of technology, we can progress decisively and effectively in the major sectors. And the first big incision will be the citizen's card. It will be the card for which too many people have worked in the past, and I must acknowledge it to them. Since the time of AMKA Dimitris Sioufas, Anastasios Peponnis, Benos and other politicians who worked for this effort and found very big obstacles. The last attempt was made with the current President of the Parliament and it is concluded, after deciding to set up a committee, which by January should have solved the issue of interconnection, collaboration, interoperability of all the databases of public services, so that we can really follow this four-month period in 2016 to proceed to a large, deep, historical, subversive reform, which will come in direct conflict with bureaucracy and pluralism. And this effort will really release millions of workers, free millions of hours of civil suffering, will now force the public to operate home and resolve this kind of bureaucracy. The bureaucracy that, as Mr Theodorakis has rightly pointed out, dematerializes a significant part of GDP along with pluralism. It'll be a card that'll have a second role. It will contribute to the implementation of inter-democratic institutions, which will give the citizen a step in controlling, at last, power.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u553	Please, be quiet! And, Minister, let's close, because the Vice President and the Prime Minister are next. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u554	I shall conclude, Mr President. We move on to the changes needed in the Ministry of Public Order, so that we can replace the repression with the support of the citizen, because we want a civil-acceptance relationship with the police. We must also collide with the trafficking in human beings, conflict with racist violence. In particular, in the area of civil protection, we need to establish new institutions for prevention, but in which the citizen will also be involved, because we can all deal with this kind of problem together. I close, Mr President, by saying that, ladies and gentlemen, we are the representatives of the Greek people. We're here, and we have to remain trustees. We must demonstrate every day that we have those reflexes that respond positively to the stimuli of society. Because only in this way will we activate the thermogenic deposits of the soul of the Greeks, only in this way will we awaken the stubbornness of the Greeks, to get out of this crisis, all together, without leaving behind social cemeteries. Allow me to make a personal reference to the young. Our dear children, we understand both your concerns and your denials and objections, both with politicians and with the political system. But we invite you, recognizing that you are living this torture of prolonged teenage use not to give up in the face of difficulties. And he tells you a man who wouldn't be here if he had resigned in front of these kinds of difficulties. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So I invite you not to take your bodies and leave abroad. Let's all fight together here! To pressure us, to force us to find solutions, solutions that will enable you to build a more beautiful Greece, more human, more solidarity, more fair. That must be your goal. I tell you face to face, because I have lived myself and I believe that life doesn't change man, but man, with his powers, can change life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. The last speaker before the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Yiannis Drasakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u556	Ladies and gentlemen, how are developments in our country removed under the new agreement? Can we make some assessments of what they're going to follow next time? Of course, we cannot predict. Developments in the world today depend and are influenced by too many factors, sometimes even uncontrolled. However, we can identify certain elements which are objective events, either in the sense that they are provided for in the agreement and in government policy or in the sense that they follow with reasonable consistency. So we can say that the next time we have two major stations: the first is the recapitalisation of banks, and the second is the completion of the first assessment. These two developments must take place in the next two months. Once these two facts have been made, it follows a series of developments with positive content. Firstly, resources are being released to repay the government’s dues which, together with the acceleration of disbursement of the NRP resources, can strengthen the real economy. Secondly, the way in which the country is involved in the bond market programme by the European Central Bank is opened, which can reduce bank borrowing costs and thus help reduce interest rates. Thirdly, on the basis of these developments we can well expect to speed up the return of the deposits or some of the deposits withdrawn from the banks. Fourthly, we can also see here the faster relaxation of capital controls and possibly their complete lifting at the beginning of 2016. Fifth, of course, the important public debt negotiation is followed, with a view to its long-term sustainability and its usefulness. Sixthly, these developments, together with the changes that will in the meantime move forward and be implemented, will enable the recession to be curtailed and the recovery of the economy, perhaps in the second or third quarter of the year, as most analysts predict. Seventh, after this, the country's borrowing from the tolerable interest-rate markets will become a visible objective that can be realised, depending on international developments, at the end of 2016 or at the beginning of 2017. This series of events certainly does not lead us to the end of the crisis, but to an important station that will allow us to move from there and beyond with faster steps to the necessary changes and the transformations that need to be made into the state, society, the economy and the institutions. However, it is precisely for this reason that, in parallel with the measures envisaged by the agreement, a parallel programme, which is not static or closed but potential, will be constantly enriched with new contents. This programme, which the Prime Minister and the Ministers responsible have already presented, will not simply try to mitigate the social consequences of the Memorandum, but will pursue three major strategic objectives: The first is the recovery of the political initiative and the control of developments, which have practically been lost by our country since 2010. It is the recovery of the credibility of the institutions of democracy. Here is the change in the electoral law, which can be exploited and helped to reconstruct our political system and overcome the crisis of representation that characterises the Greek society. There are, of course, the major changes, many of which have been pending, in the state, is the conflict with the pathogens, the interests and logic that have led us to both the crisis and the memoranda and the compulsions with which we are obliged to live. The second major strategic objective is the reintegration or integration of the hundreds of thousands of our patriots who have been displaced from the labour market and in some cases have also been excluded from social and cultural life. It is neither a normal problem to talk about unemployment of 30% and youth unemployment of over 50% in a time of peace. This is only in wartime. So addressing this problem, I think, goes beyond the current debate that is being held and limited to contractual means. Our government is planning two major actions here, one of 'upside' - let me say it schematically - and one of 'outside'. On the top, the goal is to liberate and activate the country's productive forces, with a peak and lever a powerful investment programme that can exceed EUR 100 billion over the next five years and which can be part of the development programme that we are committed to elaborating and depositing by March 2016. Here we imply private investments, which will also be triggered by the activation of the development law, meaning foreign investments, the attraction of which, as the Prime Minister has already said, will also be the subject of concrete procedures and institutions that will be created, and of course the investments financed by the NSRF and other possibilities that can be exploited along the way. At the same time, however, we must say 'outside' to find ways of energising society itself, to make public policies which support genuine, collective efforts by workers, the unemployed, farmers and young scientists, and which will primarily help to reintegrate and restructure the country. The third objective is to upgrade the country's international position, upgrade the prestige, first of all, but also the role and position of our country in Europe and the world. I think that every objective observer can observe that, although these objectives are long-term, even in the short term that this government has been able to operate, it has made its contribution, especially to the last point I have referred to, but also to all areas. He gave samples of writing, but they must be turned into more decisive steps, if not jumps. In addition to the adjustments, the reforms imposed on us by the lenders through their own perception of things, we need to think about, plan and implement reforms and deeper transformations that we must make, on our own decision and initiative, in the light of the type and quality of society that we and the future generations want to live in. This is the field of which will be shaped - they are already forming - the new dividing lines between the Left and the Right, between the progressive and conservative forces, as well as the fields of convergence, programming and cooperation, especially with forces interested in new roads beyond the hegemony of neoliberalism. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the criticism of counter-population. I've heard fertile thoughts and ideas. However, I must point out that, on the New Democracy side in particular, I have heard an opposition which is aggressive and at the same time shallow and superficial. It does not allow time for me to comment in detail. However, because some comments were made about the banks and Mr Venizelos and Mr Meimarakis on administrations and because questions such as 'what was paid to the banks' have been asked, I must tell you that for the government the bank file is not only open, but has not even been opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u557	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u558	And if there's any interest, we'd really be happy to work together to find the right procedures to see exactly what happened with the banks, where did the money go, what happened with the loans, what criteria were given. For even today such phenomena are still going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u559	What's blocking him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u560	Of course, since we are talking about loans, let the Qualifying Opposition tell us what is going to happen with its own loan, which is not incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u561	We're not talking about loans, but about other things. That's populism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u562	Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u563	Wait a minute, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u564	The administrations when are you going to change them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u565	The point is that, in order to get rid of the memoirs definitively without regressions, to get out of the crisis, we need to overthrow some of the boulders on which bipartisanism has been based over the last few decades. Things are simple and in particular: From the clientele state we must go to a state of meritfulness and collaborativeness. From a state-owned entrepreneurship of 'pooper', we must go to a new entrepreneurship which respects workers and the environment and which seeks its profitability through investment, employment and innovation. From a social alliance that favours the reproduction of tax evasion and theft, we must go to a new social alliance for development and the social state. From a worthy context that highlights individualism, consumerism and Darbian competition, we must go to a society based on cooperation, solidarity, equality and justice. It is for this reason that the next four years have emerged in a critical four-year period - I would say in the most critical four years of our post-war history - because either we can lay the foundations for exiting the crisis, or otherwise there is the risk of a long-term trapping us in a stagnation and marginalisation. Either we get out of the regime of a state-owned house and, as some people call it "climberal" capitalism, or we will lose our contact for many years with dynamic world developments. Either we create a new social morality that the common interest will provoke, or otherwise the logic of 'harassment' will infect society as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u566	Finish, Mr. Drasakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u567	I'm closing, Mr. President. I think these questions in various ways are the ones on which the Greek people voted. And it matters that he has chosen exactly that political force that he considers that, at least comparatively, he can hope that he can give the fight for this great change that needs to be done. And all I would like to say is that we have this confidence of the people, but also the expectations of the wider society, even of the people and groups who have not voted for us, want to honour and vindicate them. It's the only reason we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u568	I call on the Prime Minister, Mr Alexis Tsipras, to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u569	Mr President, allow me one comment at first. You are quite right that the ministers should speak in the debate on the programming declarations because they are the government's programming declarations. However, it would be good and good from now on, because Parliament is primarily a place of speech and analogy, to ensure that at least at the end of the process at the end of the process the members of the Co-Population and Ministers with Members of the Representation are changed, because this means a real dialogue and a representative. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, the Bureau is not responsible, but I have to say that we must be more careful next time about this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech yesterday, I tried to describe in detail the strategic targeting of the new government, but also to present what I could call a 'roadmap' of our next steps, to describe the main points of the process, as we understand it, for the definitive exit of the country from the crisis, for the definitive end of this multiannual committee of the memorandum period. I am convinced and would like to reiterate my belief that this Parliament during this four-year period, despite the great and real difficulties that we have before us, can be the House - and it will be - and the four-year exit from the crisis and recovery of the economy. It can be a four-year period that will be characterized at the same time by profound changes and ruptures that need both the political system and the Greek society. Our timetable is ambitious, but it is also specific. Our first goal is that, in November, the first assessment procedure will be concluded, so that by the end of the year the recapitalisation process of the banks has been completed and that the crucial debate on the write-down of the Greek debt is finally opened. Thus, the conditions will be met to return by the end of the first half of 2016 at a positive growth rate - and that is possible. They explained to you why both the Minister of Economy and the Deputy Minister of Finance. Thus, we will be able to gradually restore the long-term stability of the Greek economy, as well as the appropriate changes and reforms and investor confidence in 2017 - at the beginning of 2017 - we will be able to regain our access to international borrowing markets. And, you know, it's not worth talking in terms of communication about it anymore. Of course, we must put it as a goal, but it is important to organise the plan so that we can regain access to the markets, with stability, duration and low interest rates. Let me remind you at this point that the beginning of the collapse of the New Democracy and PASOK government in August 2014 was when it was attempted, for reasons exclusively communication reasons, to support this entire propaganda of Success story but also to set up a new propaganda, seeing that it reaches the limit of the presidential election that was not the majority, to support the communication effort that the country is coming out of the market and that is why we are coming out of the memorandum. I remind you of what results this has had. You said then that it's the SYRIZA who's making opposition. I would remind you that the Minister of Finance had gone to meet Mrs Lagard at the International Monetary Fund at the time. She had talked about amateurism and spreads - not from SYRIZA - then rose rapidly. What for? For that very simple reason, which everyone knows, and the investors and the markets, that you do not go out on the market, when you have a debt of 180% of GDP and with the simultaneous obligation of exaggerated - incapacitated, I would say - primary surpluses. You don't go out on the markets when the country's financial needs for the medium term are so high and at the same time uncovered. Because we all know - and this time we were negotiating hard - that the previous agreement did not have any money to cover the financial needs of the next period. You don't go out on the market when you have an economy that in the competitiveness indicators is so low. But you don't go out - I'll add something more - when you've created so deep wounds in the social body, when you've broken social cohesion, and you haven't taken any initiative to restore them. That is why, you know, what gives rise to political instability and thus causes economic uncertainty is not our controversy here, it is not our differences of opinion. It is the social tension caused by social injustice and by the wounds in the social body. And, you know, here's our main difference. Our first concern, under conditions of economic suffocation, was to stop the abuses, to go to a tough negotiation, the result of which is judged by the Greek Parliament and by the Greek people. He even judged it, and he will judge it, there is no doubt. Our first concern in these conditions of economic suffocation was to show that there has been a humanitarian crisis in the country over the last five years. And we have succeeded in bringing this truth to light within the European Parliament, in finding support for it. And in very difficult circumstances our first laws were the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis, with the fewer possibilities we had, but also the law on the 100 doses and the relief of the real economy. With this data, then, you tried in a completely communication way to get out on the market while you knew that the country could not return. Ladies and gentlemen, I was waiting for the Qualifications in this three-day debate to be placed on the draft that we tabled for the return to growth and for the recovery of the Greek economy and on the road map. To be placed, of course, in constructive criticism. We didn't think you'd agree with us. We expected to hear some alternatives or propose a different strategy. And unfortunately, none of this happened. It seems that the process of Programmatic Declarations has been used by Acoustic Opposition more as a arena for internal confrontation, for who will be more aggressive, who can make the life of Tsipras and SYRIZA more difficult. But the problem with the place isn't that. The problem with the place is with what plan we will get out of the crisis, if there are alternatives to testify rather than unresolved and contradictory - you will allow me - opposition screams. You will also allow me to say one more thing. In your two-day, three-day presence you canceled all your tactics and strategy of the election period. Who forgets that throughout your election period, basic strategy, targeting and line was the line of understanding, even - even of the great coalition? I would remind you, Mr President, that when you were not addressing disgraceful words to me - but there is no personal issue, because during an election debate this is being heard - you were discussing whether we would agree to proceed, since, as you say, 'we voted together' and to govern together and we said 'no, we have big, important differences'. In one day you forgot all that and you come here, not to talk again about the need for understanding, to which there may be, but to tell us that you are deeply antimony, while in previous years you have made a mistake, perhaps.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u570	No, you've become memorials now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u571	Mr President, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u572	Your mutation is obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u573	Let me tell you why I was listening to you in the election,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u574	I listen to you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u575	...that you never before, but you're not telling the truth now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u576	And you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u577	Nor before did you really want SYRIZA to get along - obviously and you didn't take it - but now you don't believe what you're saying, when you're criticizing the effort to get the country out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u578	After all, one does not rescind the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u579	And what did you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u580	Do you know who was the only one and then and now your firm target? Then perhaps you can do so, with another election result from what the people have given you, have the opportunity to blackmail your presence in a position of power and now your attempt to be able to return quickly to a position of power. Because this is your real illness: powerlessness and governmentism. But with this strategy that does not give a damn about the real problems of society, but only about the self-interest of power, not in this four-year period you will not see power, nor will you see the next, gentlemen of the New Democracy, with any Chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u581	Your example, Mr President, is called a 'psychologist' error.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u582	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u583	So the Civic Opposition, ladies and gentlemen, in my assessment, this three-day period, has unfortunately proved to be below the occasion, because you did not tell us what your plan to get out of the crisis is, what your strategic vision is for this place. You had a strategic plan and vision to build along with some other escorts at the time - I don't know if they still want to go with you - the famous euro party, the European party. However, it has been shown that the real powers - of Europe which we deserve, not only of Europe that only wants to be punished, of monuments and disciplines, but of Europe which must show up its founding values, of democracy, of solidarity - and of real Europe, of good Europe are not you, but we are the ones who have taken the difficult decision, but we have also given the great battle to open up cracks in Europe and to highlight the prospect of an alternative course in Europe. And when we made the crucial and difficult decision to fight, but to remain in the European framework at a cost, then your strategic plan, the euro party, the party of Europe, which would be a collapsing of many parties, was obviously broken up, fragmented as a paper tower. And now it is obvious: you have a lack of strategy, which is why you cannot make a real political confrontation with the proposals that we are tabling. We are not saying that they are the best of the proposals, but we are open to hearing yours. You come today and repeat the forecast story for 2015 for 2.9% growth. But they are all aware that these forecasts in the so-called 'debt sustainability analysis', which resulted in analyses of the sustainability of the debt, were too high in terms of predicting growth, just to justify that the debt can be made viable in 2022. Everyone knows that and everyone knows the big difference between forecast year by year than the Greek economy actually earned. Above all, it is pointless to compare forecasts with realities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u584	But your Minister has testified these.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u585	Truth, I wonder: based on the country's obligation to make a primary surplus of 3% in 2015, how many new measures did it take to catch that target?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u586	Less.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u587	At a time when your executives have publicly acknowledged - Mr Stagioras, if I am not mistaken - that you would not have to pay salaries and pensions in February of '15. That is why you speeded up the presidential election, brought it in December instead of February, and took the two-month extension, because you thought, you calculated that we would end up in February, and that is how the draft of the very brief parentheses would be carried out. You have spoken about the cuts in expenditure and the increase in taxes provided for in the new agreement, saying with contempt that you will be against it. You have listed many measures, and you have played with the real anguish of farmers, pensioners, small and medium-sized enterprises. But your problem, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is that you slowly remembered it, too late. What did you say all seven months about these people, about these social groups, we were negotiating hard? How about them? Why didn’t you say the same when we fought to defend their rights and tabled dozens of proposals with equivalents rejected by lenders? You must admit, then, that the leadership at the time of the New Democracy and PASOK had one single objective. He expected our effort to fail, to fail our negotiating effort, because the only stress was their political vindication of the things they had done in the past five years and the destruction that had come to the Greek people. This, however, is not a position of responsibility towards the country, against society and against the Greek people. Let me tell you one more thing: we are really putting our hands on the chestnuts out of the fire and we are proud of this, because the Left and the progressive forces at the place have meaning not only of denouncing the hard things that are coming, sitting at the corner and saying "they are coming hard, they come from Armageddon", but trying to change things in the front line of battle and we were on the front line of battle and we remain on the front line of battle. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But your chestnuts are trying to get out of the fire, your sins forty years and, of course, the ruins that these policies have created that we are trying to alleviate. I would also ask you to stop this pre-election nonsense that we have charged EUR 90 billion with public debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u588	Reality is not nonsense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u589	If you want, I'll explain it to you, but for the last time. I think if you pay a little attention, you'll understand. The agreement with lenders provides for the financing of EUR 86 billion. Of these, then, 53 billion concerns short-term debt restructuring and even much better interest rates, both the debt that was in the International Monetary Fund and the one that was in the European Central Bank. It is a process which is a de facto mini debt restructuring. It also covers medium-term lending needs, but also shortens interest rates. So, here we have a reduction in debt and a corresponding reduction in financial requirements, not an increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u590	Isn't the debt going up with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u591	Of the remaining EUR 33 billion, to reach 86, 7 are going directly to the real economy for outstanding debts. The remaining EUR 25 billion goes for the banks' recapitalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u592	Aren't we borrowing these? If we borrow them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u593	But listen to me, don't interrupt me. I listened very carefully and calmly to you. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u594	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u595	Let me make two remarks here. If these will be charged by the Greek people and the Greek State, it will appear - as a whole or not - and it will appear when the process of regaining shares by individuals is finished. It will, of course, depend on the Greek economy's progress and growth rates if they will be sold again to private individuals at equivalent prices to those purchased by the Greek State. But we will see how much of the EUR 25 billion we will be charged if we are to be charged. But I would like to make a point here: is it possible to say that the need to recapitalise the Greek banks has created this very bad development? No one's thankful for that. But can you say that they created the capital control?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u596	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u597	Do you not know that you had already recapitalised the banks with EUR 40 billion and did not come to cover the red loans? Didn't you know that there were 10 billion in the HFSF, which, of course, at the beginning of the Flemish negotiation went to the EFSF? You don't know that there were for that very reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u598	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u599	And I ask you directly, have the billions of red loans created by capital control, or have the extermination policy of the last five years, which dissolved the country's incomes and consumer base, or has the PSI, which, of course, also led to the dismantling of the insurance funds, also created these gaps in the banks? To speak here with arguments. I am at your disposal to oppose any argument, but to speak the language of truth and with numbers and arguments. So, please, this election firework that we supposedly raised the debt by EUR 90 billion not to be used again, because a primary child can now understand that these are things that do not apply. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are also critical of insurance. I, too, asked you in such a critical society, in the course of the country, a national issue, in ensuring the solidarity of generations, not to make a micro-party confrontation. To agree that we have an insurance system which, for reasons relating to the demographic problem of the country, with the ingenuity, with the rapid increase in unemployment, of black labour - these were not in the seven months that we have ruled - is a system that has a problem of sustainability. And come here and make suggestions, see how we deal with it. Instead, you are arguing that we who have ruled for seven months are responsible for the problem of the viability of the insurance, when you have the great responsibility of the PSI, who has destroyed the insurance funds. So when you are responsible for all this, for the implementation of a policy that has reduced the Greek economy over the past five years by twenty-five points and has reduced unemployment to 27%, it is at least hypocritical to blame us. If you don't want to table proposals, don't testify. We're still going to get the chestnuts out of the fire. This issue needs to be resolved. You don't want to help? Don't help but let's finally talk seriously, let's talk the truth's language. And the truth is that it is our government that, in a terriblely unfavourable environment, managed by tough negotiation to reduce the excessive objectives of the primary surpluses by ensuring a budget area of EUR 20 billion over the next three years. The truth is that it is our government that finally managed to open up the debt issue. You know what debt: what the then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, said about, was sustainable and sought by Mrs Merkel, a certificate of viability. And now, regardless of what the agreements say, the papers - not to go into this, we will see everything in front of us - I know one thing: everyone today in Europe and in the world, international organisations and also great leaders, as the President of France in the European Parliament opened up the debt issue and said that it is Europe's duty to solve this great problem of Greece, which is at the same time a bad problem for Europe. Why has this not been done over your days and is it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u600	We didn't have the 90 billion-dollar phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u601	The truth is that it is our government that will carry out the difficult task of refining the banking system and with the sole aim of public interest and not of serving interests. It is our government that managed to get a big injection into the real economy by the end of 2015, ensuring approximately EUR 7.5 billion in liquidity. How? With the 3 billion instalments for due date, which will go to the real economy - another reason why we need to speed up the evaluation process - but also with the new agreement with the Commission on zero Greek participation, but also for strong investment financing, which will lead to additional liquidity, will reach about EUR 4.5 billion from these programmes in 2015. And this - and I would like to stress this - despite the reactions of conservative governments and officials in the Commission, that is to say, your allies, in the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. I said the other day that our aim is to put the Greek economy on a new path of growth, which will not be based on the social ruins, but will exploit competitive advantages of the Greek economy. I have referred to four major battles - objectives that we have before us, on the open issues, which must be wider consensus, social and political anti-neoliberal forces and progressive in order to win these battles. I have talked about the need to reinstate collective negotiations and at the same time to abolish collective redundancies, the immunity to industrial relations, the fight to keep the public character of PPC and IPTO in order to build a new fund for the recovery and not to divest public property and to fight for the regulation of red loans and the protection of first residence. I specifically addressed those forces who define themselves in the progressive and anti-neoliberal space, because I know that the ideological and political priority of conservative and neoliberal forces from ideology is that these are not issues that we must fight. It is not a question of fighting collective bargaining. Full release to the labour market. It is not a question of fighting for the use of public property, because they do believe in privatisation. Nor do they care very much about protecting the first home, because exactly the logic of the market economy says that if you have a house in Hive and you can't keep it, sell it, and go buy in a poorer area, in Peristeri. And if you can't go to Peristeri, go to an even poorer area in St. Barbara. And if you can't, you can go to Salamis. And if you can't, you can't stay in a purse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u602	Put Salamina down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u603	This is the logic of the market and of absolute faith in the market economy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We, therefore, are not neoliberal - nor SYRIZA, but we are not neoliberal - expect that there will be wider social and political alliances on these issues. I would therefore expect that, on these four very specific issues that I raised, in fact, progressive forces, without half-white, would respond to the call for coexistence, so that we could jointly give these struggles. Instead, I heard a steep warfare yesterday and today. To be perfectly fair, Mr Theodorakis today made an effort to put forward proposals. We'll see. But, your executives most of yesterday made a steep warfare. Whether you were listening to representatives of the New Democracy or to representatives of the so-called progressive space, and so do you. And I wonder: How exactly do you define your difference from the neoliberal and conservative block? By unfortunately continuing the line of the past five years, the line of fanatical defense of the acts of the Samara - Venizelos government? A line that, in fact, no matter what you say, matches you with the most conservative circles in Europe. So I tell you honestly, we will be here so that we can discuss proposals and positions and joint actions on these issues. But if you keep pretending to be the tail of the New Democracy, evil of your head, not ours. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I would like to say to you, too, that perhaps this attitude has to do with the fact that you do not believe that this is what we are going to gain. I want to tell you you'll be disobeyed. These battles will be won. As we can win other major battles in support of the social state, the fight against corruption, interoperable, economic crime, great tax evasion, the battle for the necessary major democratic reform in public administration. And we must start with not words, but with works, tomorrow, so that, despite the difficult circumstances, we can extend the possibility of social benefits to the weakest, to address the humanitarian crisis, to support the health system decisively, with the aim of universal and equal access to all citizens, to strengthen the programme to combat unemployment, which is already fruitful, and to combat undeclared and black labour. Giving justice, by supporting with all our powers the efforts of the judiciary, which is now abstract, without intervention and from above, can and will, I believe, do its job.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u604	What interventions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u605	Let us move on to the immediate vote of the Broadcasting Act, broaden tax controls and complete cross-checking of the data, deposits and tax statements of the previous years, the previous decade. And, of course, we must vote on the bills to combat the smuggling of fuel and tobacco. But on this point, I did not really understand the position of the New Democracy, either on the question of banks or on the question of television licences. I don't understand exactly what you're saying. You know, ladies and gentlemen - let me make a personal reference - seven months in the previous period and a few days now to the Prime Minister's position, at the same time in the last fourteen months in four critical confrontations in the polls - from the European elections in June, the Genoa National Elections, the most difficult one, the referendum in July, but now - the overwhelming majority - not all of them, but the overwhelming majority - of the media were against us. Especially during the referendum period, they had anticipated that others would come to Maximos on Monday. I want to say something to you: in all these four critical tests I never even raised the phone to complain, I didn't pick up the phone to talk to a publisher, a media owner, a boomer of political life, or one of the banks' bosses. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you know what? That is why we have more power today than our percentages. Because no one has us in his pocket, because we don't owe anyone and nobody owes us. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And in this place - to make things clear - we do not come in a revolt. Oh, no. We are in a position to put a order in place, to apply laws to all, to all Greek citizens equally. And if we don't do it now, we'll never do it. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote together on the Broadcasting Act, to vote on it, too - and you, Mr Theodorakis, and you, Mrs Gemmas. You have to vote, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u606	Where's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u607	And in ten days he'll be in the House and you won't be anxious if we bring it or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u608	No warlords, no ministries. The Minister of the Commonwealth won't be done. Chaves is doing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u609	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u610	Allow me to say a few words about the criticism made during the debate on the so-called deterioration of foreign policy during our day. Of course, I was ten days ago in the United States, four days, dozens of meetings, three speeches at the General Assembly, but also at the Agency's special forums. It is therefore well known - and that is why I did not want to impose any more burdens on the presentation of the programming positions - that the country has an active, multidimensional, very active presence in foreign policy. You may disagree with this strategy, but blaming us that we are absent and in the absence of a plan, I think it is an excessive position and attitude. I would like to point out that for us active and multidimensional foreign policy means having the potential, despite its small size, but its strong geopolitical dynamics - because it has indeed lost its economic strength in recent years, but its geopolitical dynamics remain too strong - as a country of knots between three continents, in rings of crisis, in a crisis of economic crisis, which remains in our region, Europe, a crisis that has broken out recently, a refugee crisis, and a crisis of instability and wars. Let's not forget that in our north we have Ukraine, south-east of Syria, a field of tension, south-western Libya. Greece is a field of stability and security in the region. And, you know, this was a powerful weapon of the country in the negotiation effort to deal with the most extreme conservative positions on Grexit. I would like to say, therefore, that since the first day, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Nikos Kotzias, we have drawn up a plan, an ambitious plan, but a plan to upgrade the role of small Greece in the region. We claimed our ties with China, rekindled our traditional relations with Russia, while maintaining relations of substantial cooperation with the United States. We upgraded tripartite cooperation with Egypt and Cyprus. I've met three times in this short term, with the President of Egypt. We have ambition to maintain strategic cooperation with Israel, but at the same time also with traditional, close relations with Palestine, supporting the right request and the right fight for the establishment of a Palestinian state. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And in the margins of the UN General Assembly, I had the opportunity to meet with leaders of major and important states, the President of China, the President of Brazil, but also to highlight the image of a country that, despite being in the middle of crises, is part of the solution rather than of the crisis. And, of course, we have had the opportunity to highlight our positions and also our desire to make a real contribution towards resolving our national issues, not in the context of internal consumption debates, but in the context of international fermentation centres and decision-making centres. So let me repeat, and for those who did not understand and criticised the previous period, that, apart from my opportunity to meet the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the American Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Turkish Prime Minister and the Cypriot President, we were able to show that we are still struggling to resolve the Cyprus problem, in good cooperation with the Cypriot Government and the international organisations, so that the tragedy of the island ends happily. We're talking about an issue that is exactly my own age. All the Prime Ministers who have been through here have spoken of Cyprus and the need for a solution. I would like to say that we are basically standing next to President Anastasiades' efforts and consider the change of leadership to the Turkish Cypriot community to be positive. However, we must not forget that the Cyprus problem is primarily a problem of illegal invasion and occupation in the northern part of the island. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Therefore, any plan for a solution, to be a viable and acceptable solution, must end the presence of Turkish troops in the northern part of Cyprus. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the only way to really strengthen our country's position in the international environment is to achieve the objectives we have set for this four-year period and achieve, by tightening the teeth, putting an end, in a short time - not from one day to the next, it is obvious, but in a short time - to this Memorandum of Understanding and to get out of this unprecedented crisis for our country, but with the people and society standing. We've already taken steps. Despite our small size, we dared to stand on our feet, to question the one-ways of the domestic and foreign elite. You know, the Greek people have become a symbol of struggle and vindication, not only in Europe, throughout the world, and that is why we can be proud again and look at the future with optimism, despite the difficulties that we have before us. We know very well that the difficulties will be great. We know we have turbulence and difficult decisions ahead of us. But I'm deeply convinced we'll make it. We will quickly move through the canvas of the first assessment, we will close the major issues of recapitalisation, the debt debate will be opened, with a positive sign and a positive decision, and we will move in a firm step, so that we can change our country, by mobilising all the living and productive forces in this country. At the same time, however, with our central concern, the protection of the weakest, support for young people, justice and fair sharing of burdens, strengthening and not further deregulation of labour, respect for the environment and, above all, democracy, which requires dialogue and social participation. I believe that we have the opportunity to lay the foundations of a new social and economic model free of the weights of the past. Today we have the opportunity to lay the foundations for a new development path in social terms, so that this four-year period in history will remain in history as the four years of the end of the crisis, but also of the large sections, ruptures and reforms that will mark a new beginning for the country. And I am deeply convinced that at the end of this difficult and critical four-year period we will have the opportunity to have a new environment, to live in a different country, a country with democratic and social well-being, a country where young people will look optimisticly again and with a view to the future and be able to live and promote here, a country that has recovered the work, the prospect of prosperity and social justice. With these thoughts, I call on you to give today a vote of confidence and also substantial support to this difficult effort that we all start together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u611	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that, under Protocol No 12966/8317/07-10-2015 of the President of the Parliament, the decision provided for in Rule 43A of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure on the IZ' Parliamentary Period, the Special Standing Committee on Institutions and Transparency was established. It is the Commission beyond the six standing committees. The relevant decision will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u612	Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the government's programming declarations, there were a hundred and fifty two speakers: ninety of the list, eight of the first round of Members, eight as parliamentarians, eight Presidents, including the Prime Minister, and thirty-eight Ministers and Deputy Ministers. [[To enter pages 698-703]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Budget Declarations of the Government has been concluded and I would remind the House that, in accordance with Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, a roll-call vote will be taken to give Parliament's confidence in the government. Under Rule 70(a) of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Members present at the Bureau on a mission of the Government or Parliament abroad, which they shall notify their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the following count. The government's vote of confidence, after their name has been spoken, responds "NEI". Refusing a vote of confidence in the government responds "OH. Refusing votes shall declare ‘APPROVAL’. MEP Panagiota Dritselis is called on the list by the Radical Left Coalition and by the MP Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. Please come and start - we have been delayed overall - so that we can quickly finish the process in the best way. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u613	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, Mr Pano Kammenos, Mr Ioannis Arahovidis, Mr Georgios Katrougalos and Mr Andreas Michaelides, pursuant to Rule 70a of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u614	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter by Mr Nikolaos Dendias, who knows that he is absent from the vote on a vote of confidence in the government and that if he were present, he would vote 'no'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u615	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u616	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the outcome of a roll-call vote on the Government's Schedule Declarations to give a vote of confidence in the government. [[To enter Protocol page 707a]] A total of 299 Members voted. They voted for the government's vote of confidence, i.e. 155 MPs. [[Upright SYRIZA and ANEL MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] They refused to vote for a vote of confidence, i.e. they voted for 144 MPs. There was no ‘PARTS’, according to the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u617	The government therefore received the vote of confidence in Parliament, as provided for in Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u618	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-07-S1-commons.u619	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 1.40 p.m.
