ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Articles 43A and 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament of Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, Vasilios Yoyakas (2procedures) and Ilia Kashiri. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 11-6-2015, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that the immunity of Mr Spyridon-Adonidos Georgiadis should not be lifted. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 8-7-2015, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Vassili Joyaka's immunity should not be lifted in the first case. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 27-7-2015, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the waiver of Mr Vassilis Yoyakas' immunity for the second case. Finally, the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 20-7-2015, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that the immunity of Mr Ilias Kasidiare be lifted. In accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but is only investigated if the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity, to prosecution or to prosecution or to prosecution, or to detention, conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure, the House shall decide, by raising the hands or making the request of the Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. The provisions of Articles 71 and 72 shall apply accordingly. The House shall decide by secret ballot if this is requested by the President of the Parliament or by the President of the Parliamentary Group to which the Member is a party whose immunity is sought. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote in which each fellow Member lists his name, his constituency, his status and the parliamentary group belonging to him will be recorded in the Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the case of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. Before I give the floor to colleagues, I would like to make a few announcements. The first communication is from the Secretariat of the Communist Party Parliamentary Group: "In discussing and deciding in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Articles 43 and 83 of the Rules of Procedure on applications for waiver of immunity of Members, we as Parliamentary Representative Mr Ioannis Giokas." It's signed by Mr. Pafilis. Second, the Ministers for Finance, Economy, Infrastructure and Tourism, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Foreign and Health - all of the Ministerial Council - deposited on 4 August 2015 a draft Law: Destruction of the Act of 28 June 2015 ‘Short Banking Event (A65)’, of 14 July 2015 ‘Incorporation of the Act of Legislation of Legislative Area of 28 June 2015 ‘Amendment of the First Act of 28 June 2015 ‘Rest of the Legislation of the Legislation of the Council of 4 June 2015 on short-term banking (A65)’, as amended by the Act of Accession of 14 July 2015 of the Legislation of the Legislation of the Legislation of the Legislation of the Member States of the European Union ‘Inslation of the Legislative Area of 28 June 2015’ and of 4 June 2015’, as well as well as amendments to the Act of Accession of 4 June 2015, with effect of 18 March 2015 (Augment of the Act of 20 April 2015) and Settlement of the Act of 20 December 2015, with effect of 20 December 2015, with effecting and Settlement of 20 April 2015’, with effecting and Settle of 20 December 2015, with effect of 20 December 2015, with effecting of 2014. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 29 July 2015, in accordance with Articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. Commission Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force, (a) of the Protocol No 3328/21-7-2015, the references of Mr Apostolos Gletsos, the Mayor of Stylos and President of the Political Party of CUSTOMS, concerning the former Minister of Finance, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, concerning actions he is alleged to take during his duties, which the Greek State and its citizens exposed to negative third-country behaviour and to economic measures against Greece, causing damage to the economic life of Greece. B) the references of Mr Panagiotis Giannopoulou, the Lawyer of Athens, concerning the former Minister of Finance, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, to investigate the assistance of essential and discreet indications of the alleged offences referred to in Articles 134(2)b and 135 of the Treaty, in particular the violation of the negotiating mandate with partners - creditors and the International Monetary Fund, in order to conclude an agreement on the financing of the Hellenic Republic and the dismissal of the economy from the recession. I still have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 29 July 2015, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as was the case, a criminal case formed following the 28th July 2015 denial of Mr. Panagiotis Giannopoulos against the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Yani Varoufakis, to investigate any criminal offences of his behaviour in the organisation and implementation of an electronic invasion on the website of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues, from which the taxpayers' software and APB was robbed, in order to build a parallel banking system for the introduction of a parallel currency. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 29 July 2015, pursuant to articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 31262003 ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, as in force, criminal case-law, formed following the reference of 1) Neobis - Dimitras Vassilis - Theodoratos and 2) Vassilis Soteropoulos, in their capacity as representatives of the ‘Pan-Hellenic Union of Retired Customs Officers - P.E.T.A.’, which concerns the finance ministers involved in the period from November 2011 to November 2011 to 26-2-2014 in order to investigate any criminal conduct they might have with regard to their refusal to pay to the Special Account of the former EBRD and already EBRD the percentage of the funds collected for pensioners for customs in the period from November 2011 to 26-2-2014. Finally, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 29 July 2015, pursuant to articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 31262003 ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, as is the case, criminal case-file, formed following the complaint by Ms. Chrysulas Tsakou concerning the former Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Konstantinos Scandalides, to investigate any criminal conduct concerning the non-placement of the complainant as Head of Directorate-General at the Ministry of Rural Development in the period from 23-8-2010 to 28-11-2011. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Kirkras Fotini Vakis is seeking her three-day absence abroad from 3-8-2015 to 5-8-2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u2	The House approved the requested permission. The first case, as I said, concerns Mr Spyridon-Adonin Georgiadis, who has come. The second and third cases concern Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, and the third concerns Mr Ilias Kashiaris. I call for the cooperation of all of you to be completed in a timely and rapid manner. On the first request, Mr Georgiadis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this story seems to me to be very interesting to refer to the House, because it is in some way a political issue. About three years ago, a Mr. Souras appeared in Greek public opinion, along with an organization called END and proclaimed that they were collecting money from Greek expatriates to repay Greek debt, after the audit was carried out, etc. At that time I was the chairman of Parliament's Committee on Profit Greeks, and I considered it my duty to contact the large federal organizations of the United States of America and Canada - because they were then mentioned by Mr Solras publicly as financing him - to find out the truth or not of this organization called END. I was very surprised to see, in the first calls I made, that no one in the United States and in Canada knew the existence of Mr Solra and much more than that organisation. He was known only by one of his associates, a doctor in New York, Mr. Lambrakis, who had a number of issues, which I will not mention at the moment, because they don't matter to our case. After that, after seeing as the chairman of the committee that all this was Chalimas' fairy tales, I met with Mr Lambrakis on a show - to Mr Papadakis - one morning, I said that "children, what you hear has nothing to do with it, because all this is false", I also had a serious conflict then with him, and then I went to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and filed press reports to investigate any criminal offence involving the dispersion of false news and the rest. Because you may have read that I didn't go to her, to note that I wasn't invited to go, because I had filed a petition and the prosecutor filed her. So I didn't go because they never invited me to go to her. However, in this - and I admit, ladies and gentlemen, that I am very surprised at the question of justice - Mr Solras has been acquitted by a reasoning, which says he has not proved himself to be the false of money. I'm just gonna stay on this, and I'm gonna close. What is the basic claim by Mr. Sora that I would like to present to him here for the Greek people to listen to him? I just posted to my favourite twitter the related video of Mr Lambraki explaining to his fans in a speech where they found 600 billion. The 600 billion, says in the video, Mr.Sourra's lieutenant, found them, because Mr.Sourras was the owner of a secret alien technology of God Apollo, which he sold to Obama. Obama, with this technology, can move the United States spaceships without having to consume fuel and in return he gave Mr Solra 3 trillion dollars! Of these 3 trillion dollars, Mr Solras was pleased to give the Greeks 600 billion. But he doesn't give it that way. It only gives it with a change of culture and control by Mr Horace of all political parties and various others. Mr. Souras has filed a complaint, which I will file in the Minutes. The lawsuit states: "For these reasons, Mr. Artemis Sourras filed before the Prosecutor of Primary Athens, his 29-11-2012 press reports against: 1) Anthony Samaras, 2) Evangelos Venizelos, 3) Fotios Kouvelis, 4) Ioannis Stournaras, 5) Carolou Papoulias, 6) from the Heads of the Greek Parliament - Tsipras, Kammenos, Papapegias, then etc. - (7) of the Greek Members - of the previous assembly - and 8) of all other responsible for the unjust acts of the last betrayal, the violation of duty..." etc. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] All Members of the previous assembly have always been sued by Mr Sora as guilty of last betrayal. What's treason? That we did not get the 600 billion, which Mr Obama took for the sale of technology, first of all. This is a gross modo the case we're considering. He sued me - I think for slandering - and that's what we're looking at today. I do not call on you to say 'no' to the lifting of my immunity because it is funny. The case is obviously funny and if he comes to justice, I'll explain it. After all, until then the Bank of Greece will have decided that it is false money, there is paper from the Federal Government of the United States that it is the money. You may have followed Mr Ignatiu's articles, which he contacted the US Treasury and submitted these bonds of Mr. Sora and received the relevant answers, or you may have seen Mr. Kariotis' letters, who had been lured for a period of time by Mr. Souras and after a couple of months, who understood what this was about, he made a relatively rich article in order to explain the fraud. The reason why I call on you to say 'no' to the lifting of my immunity is because it is primarily a political issue. What does the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament say? They say that, when it comes to politics, there is immunity. When it's not a political matter, there's no immunity. I do not know Mr Soura personally nor have I ever had any desire to deal with Mr Souras. I have dealt with politically because of my position as a Member and a chairman of the committee, and that is where the whole story began. In that sense, it is the most important part which falls within the letter and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure on the matter of immunity. I have to say - to close - this in terms of majority 'no': I wish to thank the committee because all the Members of all the parties, except the Golden Dawn, voted against the lifting of my immunity. I have to say, however, without being unfair, that Mrs. Golden Dawn has explained to me that she does not vote in favour of my lifting, not because she believes that one of them is true, but because she would want a trial to be done in order to explain all this before the hearing and to answer the previous decision that led to this result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u5	That's a respectable point of view. I don't take her personally. I understand it, it makes sense, and I will not be misunderstood with anyone if he votes 'yes'. I will insist, however, that if the House opens up to these kinds of immunity issues, the immunity will be lifted slowly and the complaints will come and the rest of the three hundred will come and we will have nothing but to vote 'yes' in order to do this work and to give Mr Solra the opportunity to make a television show. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. The second case concerns two proceedings by Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas. Mr Yoyakas will also have a relative tolerance from the Bureau, because there are two motions. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, on the first issue of infidelity, in 2010 I was a Prefect in the Law of Thesprotia. By a unanimous decision of the Legal Council, 10,000 euros were given to the Centre for the Prevention of Ariadne, which was part of the Legal Government. Subsequently, this money was provided, by decision of the Board of the ARIADNE Prevention Centre, in order to issue a book that would be advertised by the Centre for Prevention and the revenue of the book would be for the benefit of this public interest group. Then we gradually went to a pre-election period, it was the municipal elections, and I was a mayor. One of the members of the ARIADNE Prevention Centre who participated in the competitor combination vote makes a complaint that the money was wrongly given in order to issue this book. He thought that was not right. This complaint was then published in a local newspaper. A preliminary examination was carried out, and the Attorney-General considered that he had to prosecute for infidelity. I therefore consider this to be purely political. There is no basis on which this money was deliberately given for another purpose. On the second topic, I was again Prefect of Thesprotia in 2010, when a company asked for a parcel in a remote area, in order to put photovoltaics on it. Following the request of the particular gentleman, the parcel was allocated that was 9.5 acres. This parcel was given in order to become photovoltaic. The price was 40 euros a year. Then a conflict begins between the 760 that we granted as prefecture government with the adjacent parcel, its neighbor, that is, the family of whom since 1960 had held 600 meters in this parcel where it had planted olive trees. The neighbor comes in and objects to these six hundred meters through the services at all times, through the Department of Political Earth. The Office recommends that we partially withdraw the 600 metres in this parcel. Following this recommendation from the Office, 600 metres were withdrawn in part and the corresponding price. The gentleman to whom we granted the parcel objects to decentralised administration and - well or poorly - the decentralised administration has decided to return the six hundred measures to him. My term of office was completed in December 2010 as if nothing had happened at all. I am accused of a false attestation to the six hundred measures made following a recommendation from the Department of Civil Earth. If I did, however, or the Agency, this mistake was restored to the decentralised administration with the objection made by that gentleman. Therefore, it is a matter of no substance, since it was neither wronged nor mediated anything. And there's no specific complaint...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u8	There's no damage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u9	No damage, no complaint. The Advocate General, in a pleading which he read in the case-file, held that the prefect was partially revocation of the judgment, it considered that I signed a false statement. Honestly, if you think anything's happened, I'll go to trial. Mr. Athanasios, honestly they are things that escape all logic. I went to the three-member court and said 'all right'. But we must suffer this whole process, go again, lose days, come here today to say what we have done. Anyway, it's things that don't stand. If you think we should go to court, very gladly, but it's something that doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Let's go to the last case of Mr. Ilias Kashiri, who is called, if he wants to, to speak. Will you speak from your position, Mr. Cassidy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u11	From position to position, indeed. So I formally ask the Bureau, as far as I am concerned, my face and the other Members of my party are concerned, to abolish immunity. In any case, it has been banned in practice. We ask that we do not have immunity because this work cannot be done, that I am every 15 days in committee and then in plenary, once a month to have immunity, that people, from their baths, who drink their coffee in Kolonaki, should come here! And we are holding a plenary session, because every one of us is creating a matter with the Golden Dawn and you are waiving immunity. We've broken every world record! I've counted over ten as long as I've been a MP. There has never been such a phenomenon since the Migration. And they're all for political reasons. And in practice, there is no immunity for the Members of the Golden Dawn. When Samaras sent home the Antiterrorism and 30 people had come to my house, I tell the prosecutor: “What happened, Mr. Prosecutor? Do you have a warrant?’ He says, 'No'. "Have you lifted my immunity?" He says, 'No'. I say, 'What do you have?' And he said to me, "This is an autopsy felony." When I was sleeping, I made an autopsy felony! And I have ten other cases of this kind. We are therefore formally asking the Bureau not to immunize the Members of the Golden Dawn. In any case, the programme of our party includes the measure of the definitive abolition of the immunity of MPs and the law on the liability of ministers. As far as today is concerned, today's case is for laughter. We are talking about a case where the alleged victim of me, the cameraman who kept the camera, which I downloaded, comes directly to the channels and says, "I have no problem with the man, I know what went through, no matter what's going on." And it comes after two years a citizen, who I don't even know if there is - a name and only there is here in the litigation, the prosecutor did not prosecute - and he says, "I think the offence is self-evident." And there comes the prosecutor at the Ice Bay, Mrs Kotzamani, who is contained in the famous Baltaku video called "the Secretary-General of the Government - I do not know if she is doing all this for religious reasons - to prosecute me. Such self-determination persecutions due to a citizen's complaint are only 3% of those who are made, the prosecutions that go to prosecutors. And then they're rejected. So we've broken every record. It has happened to me personally, since he became a Member, more than ten times the waiver of immunity. I'm feeling fabulous, just like it's going to happen now. A case of robbery with a SYRIZA official who's indicted today. The famous slap case in Canelle. I find myself fabulous, because Delatolas had called the prosecutor Ryku and said "Come on, my Helen, to prosecute." And there are dozens of other incidents. For distinguished possession I did a year and a year and a half in prison the Members of my party did. Mr. Rabbit, who's here now, is in jail for eighteen months. There are no such illegalities in any country in the world. And after a year in prison, the Court of Appeal tells me, "The legal gravity of the act is not enough to impose temporary detention". After a year, they tell me you shouldn't have been in jail for a single day. So you understand and understand the Greek people, who are listening at the moment, what crimes have been committed against the third political party in the country. And these political persecutions continue. And today it is a deceitful political persecution that calls for my immunity to be waived. And, of course, I would like to close by saying to the Minister of Justice, who is absent, and normally at such plenary sittings, the Minister of Justice should be present, that the Golden Dawn in what he said about erected political persecutions and indictments, was verified 100%. And we see today that the journalistic world of the country for the famous prosecutor of Samaras, the famous Panathinaikakis, who has heard the orders of Samaras recorded, the one for whom they write from the forms of the extreme left, from "HOT DOC", to the newspapers of the New Democracy, such as "Parapolistics" and "Dimoratia". And they write about what disgrace has been literally done to be head of the Attorney's Prosecutor's Office a body of a corrupt government. And I denounce that this person remains in his place, even though it has been documented - we have been talking about it for a year, you have been late to understand it - that this person is in that position illegally. With such illegal prosecutors, with such corrupt factors, which tarnish the image of justice, new demands are constantly coming for the waivers of immunity from the Members of the Golden Dawn. We are talking about an industry which, in order to stop, I formally request that there be no immunity for us. In any case, you have devastated it in practice, as has the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u12	Obviously you have addressed the Bureau and through the Bureau to the House. Firstly, the Bureau does not decide on your request. Secondly, there are no newspaper parties. There are newspapers that may support political views that may be represented by the parties, but not that the parties that have their own newspapers, whatever party they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u13	They're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u14	Unless there's someone who has his own newspaper. Thank you for your cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the motions for waiver of immunity. Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, Vasilios Yoyakas (two forms) and Ilia Kasidiaris. There will be a secret vote. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person voting in favour of the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference next to the Member's name and to the column 'NAI', that is, he says, 'NAI' to the prosecutor's request, respectively 'NOI' and 'PANI'. The secret ballot shall be held in accordance with Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Then, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will give the ballot to colleagues - as voters - Mr Panagiota Dricellis, whom I would ask he will come from, from SYRIZA and Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis from New Democracy, which, please also come, who will sign up and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote, the votes will be counted by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the votes, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u15	The body unanimously agreed. Members of Parliament Mr Zesis Xanna are called on the list by SYRIZA and Mr George Stylos from New Democracy. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u16	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to take the counting and sorting of votes and to export the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the outcome of a secret vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 111 Members voted. On the case of Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 12 MPs voted. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'HO', they voted 95 MPs. They voted for 3 MPs. White 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the first case by Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas: In favour of waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAI', 27 Members voted. Against the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'OH', they voted 77 MPs. They voted for 7 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the second case by Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAI', 85 Members voted. Against the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'OH', they voted 20 Members. They voted for the PARAY 6 Members. The request of the Prosecutor is therefore admissible for the waiver of his immunity. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[To enter protocol p. 31a and the lists p. 31b]] Finally, in the case of Mr Ilias Kassieris: In favour of waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 83 Members voted. Against the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 22 Members voted. They voted for the PARAY 6 Members. The request of the Prosecutor is therefore admissible for the waiver of his immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, as you will know, with a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, the House is closed for seven working days until 16 August 2015. We thank the parliamentary authors and wish them a good holiday. I thank the ladies and gentlemen for their assistance to the Bureau, as well as all my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-05-S1-commons.u19	With the consent of the House, 13.40 minutes shall be closed.
